<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160224_10-K_edgar_data_70858_0000070858-16-000137_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>89006415</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>2313211</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3648362</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>37080040</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>36235323</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>7764923</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>617</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000070858-16-000137.hdr.sgml : 20160224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160224164744
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000070858-16-000137
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		220
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BANK OF AMERICA CORP /DE/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000070858
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				560906609
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06523
		FILM NUMBER:		161452599

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		100 N TRYON ST
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28255
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7043868486

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		100 N TRYON ST
		CITY:			CHARLOTTE
		STATE:			NC
		ZIP:			28255

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BANKAMERICA CORP/DE/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19981022

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NATIONSBANK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NCNB CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920107

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000070858-16-000137.txt : 20160224

10-K
 1
 bac-1231201510xk.htm
 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
    
  Washington, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

(Mark One) 

or 

For the transition period from      to 
    
  Commission file number: 
  1-6523 

Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter: 
  Bank of America Corporation 

State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization: 
  Delaware 
  IRS Employer Identification No.: 
  56-0906609 
  Address of principal executive offices: 
   Bank of America Corporate Center 
  100 N. Tryon Street 
  Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 
  Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 
  (704) 386-5681 
  Securities registered pursuant to section 12(b) of the Act: 
                         
    Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

London Stock Exchange 

Tokyo Stock Exchange 

Warrants to purchase Common Stock (expiring October 28, 2018) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Warrants to purchase Common Stock (expiring January 16, 2019) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.204% Non-Cumulative  
  Preferred Stock, Series D 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative  
  Preferred Stock, Series E 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.625% Non-Cumulative  
  Preferred Stock, Series I 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.625% Non-Cumulative  
  Preferred Stock, Series W 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.500% Non-Cumulative  
  Preferred Stock, Series Y 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of 6.200% Non-Cumulative  
  Preferred Stock, Series CC 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 

7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of Bank of America Corporation Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

6.75% Trust Preferred Securities of Countrywide Capital IV (and the guarantees related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

7.00% Capital Securities of Countrywide Capital V (and the guarantees related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

6% Capital Securities of BAC Capital Trust VIII (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities of BAC Capital Trust XIII (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

5.63% Fixed to Floating Rate Preferred Hybrid Income Term Securities of BAC Capital Trust XIV (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

MBNA Capital B Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series B (and the guarantee related thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Trust Preferred Securities of Merrill Lynch Capital Trust I (and the guarantee of the Registrant with respect thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Trust Preferred Securities of Merrill Lynch Capital Trust II (and the guarantee of the Registrant with respect thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Trust Preferred Securities of Merrill Lynch Capital Trust III (and the guarantee of the Registrant with respect thereto) 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes  No     
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes  No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes       No 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes       No  
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
                           Large accelerated filer       
      
    Accelerated filer 
      
    Non-accelerated filer 
      
    Smaller reporting company 

(do not check if a smaller reporting company) 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes  No     
  The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock ( Common Stock ) held on   June 30, 2015   by non-affiliates was approximately   $178,230,659,544   (based on the   June 30, 2015   closing price of Common Stock of   $17.02   per share as reported on the New York Stock Exchange). As of   February 23, 2016  , there were   10,325,631,017   shares of Common Stock outstanding. 
  Documents incorporated by reference: Portions of the definitive proxy statement relating to the registrant s annual meeting of stockholders scheduled to be held on April 27, 2016 are incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K in response to Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 of Part III. 

Table of Contents 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
                    Part I  
      
    Page 

Item 1.  
     Business  
    2 

Item 1A   . 
     Risk Factors  
    6 

Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    18 

Item 2.  
     Properties  
    18 

Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
    18 

Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    18 

Part II  

Item 5.  
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    19 

Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
    19 

Item 7.  
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    20 

Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    129 

Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    129 

Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    252 

Item 9A.  
     Controls and Procedures  
    252 

Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    252 

Part III  

Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    253 

Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    253 

Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    254 

Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    254 

Item 14.  
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    254 

Part IV  

Item 15.  
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    255 

Part I 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
    Item 1.  Business 
    Bank of America Corporation (together, with its consolidated subsidiaries, Bank of America, we or us) is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report,  the Corporation  may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. As part of our efforts to streamline the Corporation s organizational structure and reduce complexity and costs, the Corporation has reduced and intends to continue to reduce the number of its corporate subsidiaries, including through intercompany mergers. 
  Bank of America is one of the world s largest financial institutions, serving individual consumers, small- and middle-market businesses, institutional investors, large corporations and governments with a full range of banking, investing, asset management and other financial and risk management products and services. Our principal executive offices are located in the Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 North Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 
  Bank of America s website is www.bankofamerica.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act) are available on our website at http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Financial Information SEC Filings as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish them to, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Also, we make available on http://investor.bankofamerica.com under the heading Corporate Governance: (i) our Code of Conduct (including our insider trading policy); (ii) our Corporate Governance Guidelines (accessible by clicking on the Governance Highlights link); and (iii) the charter of each active committee of our Board of Directors (the Board) (accessible by clicking on the committee names under the Committee Composition link), and we also intend to disclose any amendments to our Code of Conduct, or waivers of our Code of Conduct on behalf of our Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer or Chief Accounting Officer, on our website. All of these corporate governance materials are also available free of charge in print to stockholders who request them in writing to: Bank of America Corporation, Attention: Office of the Corporate Secretary, Hearst Tower, 214 North Tryon Street, NC1-027-20-05, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 
  Segments 
  Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through five business segments:   Consumer Banking  ,   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM), Global Banking, Global Markets   and   Legacy Assets   Servicing (LAS),   with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  . Additional information related to our business segments and the products and services they provide is included in the information set forth on pages   32   through   46   of Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) and   Note 24   Business Segment Information     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   in Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data (Consolidated Financial Statements). 
  Competition 
  We operate in a highly competitive environment. Our competitors include banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment banking firms, investment advisory firms, brokerage firms, investment companies, insurance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit card issuers, mutual fund companies, and e-commerce and other internet-based companies. We compete with some of these competitors globally and with others on a regional or product basis. 
  Competition is based on a number of factors including, among others, customer service, quality and range of products and services offered, price, reputation, interest rates on loans and deposits, lending limits, and customer convenience. Our ability to continue to compete effectively also depends in large part on our ability to attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing employees, while managing compensation and other costs. 
  Employees 
  As of   December 31, 2015  , we had approximately   213,000   full-time equivalent employees. None of our domestic employees are subject to a collective bargaining agreement. Management considers our employee relations to be good. 
  Government Supervision and Regulation 
  The following discussion describes, among other things, elements of an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies, banks and broker-dealers, including specific information about Bank of America.  
  We are subject to an extensive regulatory framework applicable to BHCs, financial holding companies and banks and other financial services entities. U.S. federal regulation of banks, BHCs and financial holding companies is intended primarily for the protection of depositors and the Deposit Insurance Fund rather than for the protection of stockholders and creditors.  
  As a registered financial holding company and BHC, the Corporation is subject to the supervision of, and regular inspection by, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve). Our U.S. banking subsidiaries (the Banks) organized as national banking associations are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the Federal Reserve. U.S. financial holding companies, and the companies under their control, are permitted to engage in activities considered  financial in nature  as defined by the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and related Federal Reserve interpretations. Unless otherwise limited by the Federal Reserve, a financial holding company may engage directly or indirectly in activities considered financial in nature provided the financial holding company gives the Federal Reserve after-the-fact notice of the new activities. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also permits national banks to engage in activities considered financial in nature through a financial subsidiary, subject to certain conditions and limitations and with the approval of the OCC. 

The 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Financial Reform Act) enacted sweeping financial regulatory reform across the financial services industry, including significant changes regarding capital adequacy and capital planning, stress testing, resolution planning, derivatives activities, prohibitions on proprietary trading and restrictions on debit interchange fees. As a result of the Financial Reform Act, we have altered and will continue to alter the way in which we conduct certain businesses. Our costs and revenues could continue to be negatively impacted as additional final rules of the Financial Reform Act are adopted. 
  We are also subject to various other laws and regulations, as well as supervision and examination by other regulatory agencies, all of which directly or indirectly affect our operations and management and our ability to make distributions to stockholders. For instance, our broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to both U.S. and international regulation, including supervision by the SEC, the New York Stock Exchange and the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, among others; our commodities businesses in the U.S. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC); our U.S. derivatives activity is subject to regulation and supervision of the CFTC and National Futures Association or the SEC, and in the case of the Banks, certain banking regulators; our insurance activities are subject to licensing and regulation by state insurance regulatory agencies; and our consumer financial products and services are regulated by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB). 
  Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various non-U.S. regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. For example, our financial services operations in the U.K. are subject to regulation by and supervision of the Prudential Regulatory Authority for prudential matters, and the Financial Conduct Authority for the conduct of business matters. 
  Source of Strength 
  Under the Financial Reform Act and Federal Reserve policy, BHCs are expected to act as a source of financial strength to each subsidiary bank and to commit resources to support each such subsidiary. Similarly, under the cross-guarantee provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA), in the event of a loss suffered or anticipated by the FDIC, either as a result of default of a banking subsidiary or related to FDIC assistance provided to such a subsidiary in danger of default, the affiliate banks of such a subsidiary may be assessed for the FDIC s loss, subject to certain exceptions. 
  Transactions with Affiliates 
  Pursuant to Section 23A and 23B of the Federal Reserve Act, as implemented by the Federal Reserve s Regulation W, the Banks are subject to restrictions that limit certain types of transactions between the Banks and their nonbank affiliates. In general, U.S. banks are subject to quantitative and qualitative limits on extensions of credit, purchases of assets and certain other transactions involving its nonbank affiliates. Additionally, transactions between U.S. banks and their nonbank affiliates are required to be on arm s length terms and must be consistent with standards of safety and soundness. 

Deposit Insurance 
  Deposits placed at U.S. domiciled banks (U.S. banks) are insured by the FDIC, subject to limits and conditions of applicable law and the FDIC s regulations. Pursuant to the Financial Reform Act, FDIC insurance coverage limits were permanently increased to $250,000 per customer. All insured depository institutions are required to pay assessments to the FDIC in order to fund the Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF). 
  The FDIC is required to maintain at least a designated minimum ratio of the DIF to insured deposits in the U.S. The Financial Reform Act requires the FDIC to assess insured depository institutions to achieve a DIF ratio of at least 1.35 percent by September 30, 2020. The FDIC has adopted new regulations that establish a long-term target DIF ratio of greater than two percent. The DIF ratio is currently below the required targets and the FDIC has adopted a restoration plan that may result in increased deposit insurance assessments. Deposit insurance assessment rates are subject to change by the FDIC and will be impacted by the overall economy and the stability of the banking industry as a whole. For more information regarding deposit insurance, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk   on page   11  . 
  Capital, Liquidity and Operational Requirements 
  As a financial services holding company, we and our bank subsidiaries are subject to the risk-based capital guidelines issued by the Federal Reserve and other U.S. banking regulators, including the FDIC and the OCC. These rules are complex and are evolving as U.S. and international regulatory authorities propose and enact enhanced capital and liquidity rules. The Corporation seeks to manage its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to meet these regulatory guidelines and to support our business activities. These evolving rules are likely to influence our planning processes for, and may require additional, regulatory capital and liquidity, as well as impose additional operational and compliance costs on the Corporation. In addition, the Federal Reserve and the OCC have adopted guidelines that establish minimum standards for the design, implementation and board oversight of BHC s and national banks  risk governance frameworks. The Federal Reserve has also proposed rules which would require us to maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt meeting specified eligibility requirements. 
  For more information on regulatory capital rules, capital composition and pending or proposed regulatory capital changes, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital   in the MD A on page   54  , and   Note 16   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , which are incorporated by reference in this Item 1. 
  Distributions 
  We are subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to capital actions, including payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. For instance, Federal Reserve regulations require major U.S. BHCs to submit a capital plan as part of an annual Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR). The purpose of the CCAR is to assess the capital planning process of the BHC, including any planned capital actions, such as payment of dividends and common stock repurchases. 
  Our ability to pay dividends is also affected by the various minimum capital requirements and the capital and non-capital standards established under the FDICIA. The right of the Corporation, our stockholders and our creditors to participate in  

any distribution of the assets or earnings of our subsidiaries is further subject to the prior claims of creditors of the respective subsidiaries. 
  If the Federal Reserve finds that any of our Banks are not  well-capitalized  or  well-managed,  we would be required to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve to comply with all applicable capital and management requirements, which may contain additional limitations or conditions relating to our activities. Additionally, the applicable federal regulatory authority is authorized to determine, under certain circumstances relating to the financial condition of a bank or BHC, that the payment of dividends would be an unsafe or unsound practice and to prohibit payment thereof. 
  For more information regarding the requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including the minimum capital requirements, see   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity   and   Note 16   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. 
  Resolution Planning 
  As a BHC with greater than $50 billion of assets, the Corporation is required by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC to annually submit a plan for a rapid and orderly resolution in the event of material financial distress or failure. 
  Such resolution plan is intended to be a detailed roadmap for the orderly resolution of a BHC and material entities pursuant to the U.S. Bankruptcy Code and other applicable resolution regimes under one or more hypothetical scenarios assuming no extraordinary government assistance. 
  If both the Federal Reserve and the FDIC determine that the Corporation s plan is not credible and the deficiencies are not cured in a timely manner, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC may jointly impose on us more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations. A description of our plan is available on the Federal Reserve and FDIC websites. 
  The FDIC also requires the annual submission of a resolution plan for Bank of America, N.A. (BANA), which must describe how the insured depository institution would be resolved under the bank resolution provisions of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act. A description of this plan is also available on the FDIC s website.  
  We continue to make substantial progress to enhance our resolvability, including simplifying our legal entity structure and business operations, and increasing our preparedness to implement our resolution plan, both from a financial and operational standpoint. 
  Similarly, in the U.K., rules have been issued requiring the submission of significant information about certain U.K.-incorporated subsidiaries and other financial institutions, as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K. (including information on intra-group dependencies, legal entity separation and barriers to resolution) to allow the Bank of England to develop resolution plans. As a result of the Bank of England s review of the submitted information, we could be required to take certain actions over the next several years which could increase operating  

costs and potentially result in the restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries. 
  For more information regarding our resolution, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk   on page   11  .  
  Insolvency and the Orderly Liquidation Authority 
  Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, the FDIC may be appointed receiver of an insured depository institution if it is insolvent or in certain other circumstances. In addition, under the Financial Reform Act, when a systemically important financial institution (SIFI) such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. The orderly liquidation authority is modeled in part on the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, but also adopts certain concepts from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code.  
  The orderly liquidation authority contains certain differences from the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. For example, in certain circumstances, the FDIC could permit payment of obligations it determines to be systemically significant (e.g., short-term creditors or operating creditors) in lieu of paying other obligations (e.g., long-term creditors) without the need to obtain creditors  consent or prior court review. The insolvency and resolution process could also lead to a large reduction or total elimination of the value of a BHC s outstanding equity, as well as impairment or elimination of certain debt. 
  In 2013, the FDIC issued a notice describing its preferred  single point of entry  strategy for resolving SIFIs. Under this approach, the FDIC could replace a distressed BHC with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of creditors of the original BHC. 
  Furthermore, the Federal Reserve Board has proposed regulations regarding the minimum levels of long-term debt required for BHCs to ensure there is adequate loss absorbing capacity in the event of a resolution. 
  For more information regarding our resolution, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors   Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk   on page   11  . 
  Limitations on Acquisitions 
  The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 permits a BHC to acquire banks located in states other than its home state without regard to state law, subject to certain conditions, including the condition that the BHC, after and as a result of the acquisition, controls no more than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. and no more than 30 percent or such lesser or greater amount set by state law of such deposits in that state. At December 31, 2015, we held approximately 11 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured depository institutions in the U.S. 
  In addition, the Financial Reform Act restricts acquisitions by a financial institution if, as a result of the acquisition, the total liabilities of the financial institution would exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. At December 31, 2015, our liabilities did not exceed 10 percent of the total liabilities of all financial institutions in the U.S. 

The Volcker Rule 
  The Volcker Rule prohibits insured depository institutions and companies affiliated with insured depository institutions (collectively, banking entities) from engaging in short-term proprietary trading of certain securities, derivatives, commodity futures and options for their own account. The Volcker Rule also imposes limits on banking entities  investments in, and other relationships with, hedge funds and private equity funds, although the Federal Reserve extended the conformance period for certain existing covered investments and relationships to July 2016 (with indications that the conformance period may be further extended to July 2017). The Volcker Rule provides exemptions for certain activities, including market-making, underwriting, hedging, trading in government obligations, insurance company activities, and organizing and offering hedge funds and private equity funds. The Volcker Rule also clarifies that certain activities are not prohibited, including acting as agent, broker or custodian. A banking entity with significant trading operations, such as the Corporation, is required to establish a detailed compliance program to comply with the restrictions of the Volcker Rule. 
  Derivatives 
  Our derivatives operations are subject to extensive regulation globally. Various regulations have been promulgated since the financial crisis, including those under the U.S. Financial Reform Act, the European Union (EU) Markets in Financial Instruments Directive II/Regulation and the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, that regulate or will regulate the derivatives market by: requiring clearing and exchange trading of certain derivatives; imposing new capital, margin, reporting, registration and business conduct requirements for certain market participants; and imposing position limits on certain over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. In response to global prudential regulator concerns that the closeout of derivatives transactions during the resolution of a SIFI could impede resolution efforts and potentially destabilize markets, SIFIs, including the Corporation, together with the International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) developed a protocol amending ISDA Master Agreements to provide for contractual recognition of stays of termination rights under various statutory resolution regimes and a contractual stay on certain cross-default rights. The original protocol was superseded by the ISDA 2015 Universal Resolution Stay Protocol (2015 Protocol), which took effect January 1, 2016, and expanded the financial contracts covered by the original protocol to also include industry forms of repurchase agreements and securities lending agreements. Dealers representing 23 SIFIs have adhered to the 2015 Protocol. Global prudential regulators are beginning  

to promulgate regulations requiring regulated firms, including the Corporation and many of its subsidiaries, to amend financial contracts to impose the terms of the 2015 Protocol. The adoption of many of these regulations is ongoing and their ultimate impact remains uncertain. 
  Consumer Regulations 
  Our consumer businesses are subject to extensive regulation and oversight by federal and state regulators. Certain federal consumer finance laws to which we are subject, including, but not limited to, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act, the Home Mortgage Disclosure Act, the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, the Real Estate Settlement Procedures Act, the Truth in Lending Act and Truth in Savings Act, are enforced by the CFPB. Other federal consumer finance laws, such as the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act, are enforced by the OCC.  
  Privacy and Information Security 
  We are subject to many U.S. federal, state and international laws and regulations governing requirements for maintaining policies and procedures to protect the non-public confidential information of our customers and employees. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act requires the Banks to periodically disclose Bank of America s privacy policies and practices relating to sharing such information and enables retail customers to opt out of our ability to share information with unaffiliated third parties under certain circumstances. Other laws and regulations, at the international, federal and state level, impact our ability to share certain information with affiliates and non-affiliates for marketing and/or non-marketing purposes, or to contact customers with marketing offers. The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act also requires the Banks to implement a comprehensive information security program that includes administrative, technical and physical safeguards to ensure the security and confidentiality of customer records and information. These security and privacy policies and procedures for the protection of personal and confidential information are in effect across all businesses and geographic locations. The October 6, 2015 ruling by the European Court of Justice that the U.S. EU Safe Harbor is invalid has impacted the ability of certain vendors who relied upon the Safe Harbor to provide services to us. While an EU-U.S. Privacy Shield agreement to replace the EU-U.S. Safe Harbor has been announced, the timing of adoption and implementation is uncertain. We also expect the EU to adopt a Data Protection Regulation, which will replace the existing EU Data Protection Directive. The impacts of the anticipated EU Data Protection Regulation are uncertain at this time. 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 
  In the course of conducting our business operations, we are exposed to a variety of risks, some of which are inherent in the financial services industry and others of which are more specific to our own businesses. The discussion below addresses the most significant factors, of which we are currently aware, that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Additional factors that could affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition are discussed in   Forward-looking Statements   in the MD A on page   21  . However, other factors not discussed below or elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K could also adversely affect our businesses, results of operations and financial condition. Therefore, the risk factors below should not be considered a complete list of potential risks that we may face. 
  Any risk factor described in this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any of our other SEC filings could by itself, or together with other factors, materially adversely affect our liquidity, competitive position, business, reputation, results of operations, capital position or financial condition, including by materially increasing our expenses or decreasing our revenues, which could result in material losses. 
  General Economic and Market Conditions Risk 
  Our businesses and results of operations may be adversely affected by the U.S. and international financial markets, U.S. and non-U.S. fiscal and monetary policy, and economic conditions generally. 
  Our businesses and results of operations are affected by the financial markets and general economic, market, political and social conditions in the U.S. and abroad, including factors such as the level and volatility of short-term and long-term interest rates, inflation, home prices, unemployment and under-employment levels, bankruptcies, household income, consumer spending, fluctuations in both debt and equity capital markets and currencies, liquidity of the global financial markets, the availability and cost of capital and credit, investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets, political risks, the sustainability of economic growth in the U.S., Europe, China and Japan, and economic, market, political and social conditions in several larger emerging market countries. Continued economic challenges include under-employment, declines in energy prices, the ongoing low interest rate environment, restrained growth in consumer demand, the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus other currencies, and continued risk in the consumer and commercial real estate markets. Deterioration of any of these conditions could adversely affect our consumer and commercial businesses, our securities and derivatives portfolios, our level of charge-offs and provision for credit losses, the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, our capital levels and liquidity, and our results of operations. For instance, the recent sharp drop in oil prices, while likely a net positive for the U.S. economy, may also add stress to select regional markets that are energy industry dependent and may negatively impact certain commercial and consumer loan portfolios. 
  Our businesses and results of operations are also affected by domestic and international fiscal and monetary policy. For example, the recent rate increase by the Federal Reserve in the U.S. and continued easing at many central banks internationally impact our cost of funds for lending, investing and capital raising activities and the return we earn on loans and investments. Central bank actions can also affect the value of financial instruments  

and other assets, such as debt securities and mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), and their policies can affect our borrowers, potentially increasing the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in domestic and international fiscal and monetary policies are beyond our control and difficult to predict but could have an adverse impact on our capital requirements and the costs of running our business. 
  For more information about economic conditions and challenges discussed above, see   Executive Summary   2015 Economic and Business Environment   in the MD A on page   22  . 
  Liquidity Risk 
  Liquidity Risk is the Potential Inability to Meet Expected or Unexpected Liquidity Needs While Continuing to Support our Business and Customer Needs Under a Range of Economic Conditions. 
  If we are unable to access the capital markets, continue to maintain deposits, or our borrowing costs increase, our liquidity and competitive position will be negatively affected. 
  Liquidity is essential to our businesses. We fund our assets primarily with globally sourced deposits in our bank entities, as well as secured and unsecured liabilities transacted in the capital markets. We rely on certain secured funding sources, such as repo markets, which are typically short-term and credit-sensitive in nature. We also engage in asset securitization transactions, including with the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), to fund consumer lending activities. Our liquidity could be adversely affected by any inability to access the capital markets; illiquidity or volatility in the capital markets; unforeseen outflows of cash, including customer deposits, funding for commitments and contingencies; increased regulatory liquidity requirements for our U.S. or international banks and their nonbank subsidiaries; or negative perceptions about our short- or long-term business prospects, including downgrades of our credit ratings. Several of these factors may arise due to circumstances beyond our control, such as a general market disruption, negative views about the financial services industry generally, changes in the regulatory environment, actions by credit rating agencies or an operational problem that affects third parties or us. 
  Our cost of obtaining funding is directly related to prevailing market interest rates and to our credit spreads. Credit spreads are the amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury securities, or other benchmark securities, of a similar maturity that we need to pay to our funding providers. Increases in interest rates and our credit spreads can increase the cost of our funding. Changes in our credit spreads are market-driven and may be influenced by market perceptions of our creditworthiness. Changes to interest rates and our credit spreads occur continuously and may be unpredictable and highly volatile. 
  For more information about our liquidity position and other liquidity matters, including credit ratings and outlooks and the policies and procedures we use to manage our liquidity risks, see   Liquidity Risk   in the MD A on page   60  . 
  Adverse changes to our credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies could significantly limit our access to funding or the capital markets, increase our borrowing costs, or trigger additional collateral or funding requirements. 
  Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are directly impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in  

certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including OTC derivatives. Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies, which consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control such as the likelihood of the U.S. government providing meaningful support to the Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis. 
  The rating agencies could make adjustments to our credit ratings at any time, and there can be no assurance that downgrades will not occur. 
  A reduction in certain of our credit ratings could negatively affect our liquidity, access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, we may suffer the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing, and/or increased cost of funds. 
  In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of a downgrade of our credit ratings or certain subsidiaries  credit ratings, counterparties to those agreements may require us or certain subsidiaries to provide additional collateral, terminate these contracts or agreements, or provide other remedies. 
  While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full consequences of a credit ratings downgrade to a financial institution are inherently uncertain, as they depend upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a firm s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. 
  For information about the amount of additional collateral required and derivative liabilities that would be subject to unilateral termination at December 31, 2015 if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by each of two incremental notches, see Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral in   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  For more information about our credit ratings and their potential effects to our liquidity, see   Liquidity Risk   Credit Ratings   in the MD A on page   63   and   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  A downgrade in the U.S. government     s sovereign credit rating, or in the credit ratings of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities, could result in risks to the Corporation and its credit ratings and general economic conditions that we are not able to predict  . 
  The ratings and perceived creditworthiness of instruments issued, insured or guaranteed by institutions, agencies or instrumentalities directly linked to the U.S. government could also be correspondingly affected by any downgrade. Instruments of this nature are often held as trading, investment or excess liquidity positions on the balance sheets of financial institutions, including the Corporation, and are widely used as collateral by financial institutions to raise cash in the secured financing markets. A  

downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government and perceived creditworthiness of U.S. government-related obligations could impact our ability to obtain funding that is collateralized by affected instruments, as well as affecting the pricing of that funding when it is available. A downgrade may also adversely affect the market value of such instruments. 
  We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings or perceived creditworthiness of these organizations will affect economic conditions. The credit rating for the Corporation or its subsidiaries could be directly or indirectly impacted by a downgrade of the U.S. government s sovereign rating. In addition, the Corporation presently delivers a portion of the residential mortgage loans it originates into GSEs, agencies or instrumentalities (or instruments insured or guaranteed thereby). We cannot predict if, when or how any changes to the credit ratings of these organizations will affect their ability to finance residential mortgage loans. 
  A downgrade of the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government or the credit ratings of related institutions, agencies or instrumentalities would exacerbate the other risks to which the Corporation is subject and any related adverse effects on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Bank of America Corporation is a holding company and we depend upon our subsidiaries for liquidity, including our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to fund payments on our other obligations. Applicable laws and regulations, including capital and liquidity requirements, and actions taken pursuant to our resolution plan could restrict our ability to transfer funds from our subsidiaries to Bank of America Corporation or other subsidiaries. 
  Bank of America Corporation, as the parent company, is a separate and distinct legal entity from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries. We evaluate and manage liquidity on a legal entity basis. Legal entity liquidity is an important consideration as there are legal and other limitations on our ability to utilize liquidity from one legal entity to satisfy the liquidity requirements of another, including the parent company. For instance, the parent company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from our banking and nonbank subsidiaries to fund dividend payments on our common stock and preferred stock and to fund all payments on our other obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our subsidiaries, including our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, are subject to laws that restrict dividend payments, or authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to the parent company or other subsidiaries. Our bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, as well as restrictions on their ability to use funds deposited with them in bank or brokerage accounts to fund their businesses. In addition, we have arrangements with our key operating subsidiaries regarding the implementation of our preferred single point of entry resolution strategy, which restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to provide funds to us through distributions and advances upon the occurrence of certain severely adverse capital and liquidity conditions. 
  Additional restrictions on related party transactions, increased capital and liquidity requirements and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of the parent company and even require the parent company to provide additional funding to such subsidiaries. Also, additional liquidity may be required at each subsidiary entity.  

Regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds we need to make payments on our obligations or dividend payments. In addition, our right to participate in a distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors. For more information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see   Capital Management   in the MD A on page   53   and   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Credit Risk 
  Credit Risk is the Risk of Loss Arising from the Inability or Failure of a Borrower or Counterparty to Meet its Obligations. 
  Economic or market disruptions, insufficient credit loss reserves or concentration of credit risk may result in an increase in the provision for credit losses, which could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  A number of our products expose us to credit risk, including loans, letters of credit, derivatives, debt securities, trading account assets and assets held-for-sale. The financial condition of our consumer and commercial borrowers and counterparties could adversely affect our earnings. 
  Global and U.S. economic conditions may impact our credit portfolios. To the extent economic or market disruptions occur, such disruptions would likely increase the risk that borrowers or counterparties would default or become delinquent on their obligations to us. Increases in delinquencies and default rates could adversely affect our consumer credit card, home equity, residential mortgage and purchased credit-impaired portfolios through increased charge-offs and provision for credit losses. Additionally, increased credit risk could also adversely affect our commercial loan portfolios with weakened customer and collateral positions. 
  We estimate and establish an allowance for credit losses for losses inherent in our lending activities (including unfunded lending commitments), excluding those measured at fair value, through a charge to earnings. The amount of allowance is determined based on our evaluation of credit losses included within our loan portfolios. The process for determining the amount of the allowance requires difficult and complex judgments, including loss forecasts on how borrowers will react to current economic conditions. The ability of our borrowers or counterparties to repay their obligations will likely be impacted by changes in economic conditions, which in turn could impact the accuracy of our loss forecasts and allowance estimate. There is also the chance that we will fail to accurately identify the appropriate economic indicators or that we will fail to accurately estimate their impacts. 
  We may suffer unexpected losses if the models and assumptions we use to establish reserves and make judgments in extending credit to our borrowers or counterparties become less predictive of future events. Although we believe that our allowance for credit losses was in compliance with applicable accounting standards at   December 31, 2015  , there is no guarantee that it will be sufficient to address credit losses, particularly if economic conditions deteriorate. In such an event, we may increase the size of our allowance, which reduces our earnings. 
  In the ordinary course of our business, we also may be subject to a concentration of credit risk in a particular industry, country, counterparty, borrower or issuer. A deterioration in the financial condition or prospects of a particular industry or a failure or  

downgrade of, or default by, any particular entity or group of entities could negatively affect our businesses and the processes by which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure to individual entities, industries and countries may not function as we have anticipated. While our activities expose us to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry, including brokers-dealers, commercial banks, investment banks, insurers, mutual and hedge funds, and other institutional clients. This has resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to this industry. Financial services institutions and other counterparties are inter-related because of trading, funding, clearing or other relationships. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors or questions about the financial stability of one or more financial services institutions, or the financial services industry generally, could lead to market-wide liquidity disruptions, losses and defaults. Many of these transactions expose us to credit risk in the event of default of a counterparty. In addition, our credit risk may be heightened by market risk when the collateral held by us cannot be realized or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full amount of the loan or derivatives exposure due to us. 
  In the ordinary course of business, we also enter into transactions with sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities. Unfavorable economic or political conditions, disruptions to capital markets, currency fluctuations, changes in oil prices, social instability and changes in government policies could impact the operating budgets or credit ratings of sovereign nations, U.S. states and U.S. municipalities and expose us to credit risk. 
  We also have a concentration of credit risk with respect to our consumer real estate, including home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), consumer credit card and commercial real estate portfolios, which represent a large percentage of our overall credit portfolio. In addition, our commercial portfolios include exposures to certain industries, including the energy sector, which may result in higher credit losses for the company due to adverse business conditions, market disruptions or greater volatility in those industries as the result of low energy prices or other factors. Economic downturns have adversely affected these portfolios. Continued economic weakness or deterioration in real estate values or household incomes could result in higher credit losses. 
  For more information about our credit risk and credit risk management policies and procedures, see   Credit Risk Management   in the MD A on page   65   and   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected risks and potential losses. 
  We are party to a large number of derivatives transactions, including credit derivatives. Our derivatives businesses may expose us to unexpected market, credit and operational risks that could cause us to suffer unexpected losses. Severe declines in asset values, unanticipated credit events or unforeseen circumstances that may cause previously uncorrelated factors to become correlated (and vice versa) may create losses resulting from risks not appropriately taken into account in the development, structuring or pricing of a derivative instrument. The terms of certain of our OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements provide that upon the occurrence of certain specified events, such as a change in our credit ratings, we may be required to provide additional collateral or to provide other remedies, or our  

counterparties may have the right to terminate or otherwise diminish our rights under these contracts or agreements. 
  Many derivative instruments are individually negotiated and non-standardized, which can make exiting, transferring or settling some positions difficult. Many derivatives require that we deliver to the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we do not hold, and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or other obligation. 
  In the event of a downgrade of the Corporation s credit ratings, certain derivative and other counterparties may request we substitute BANA (which has generally had equal or higher credit ratings than the Corporation s) as counterparty for certain derivative contracts and other trading agreements. The Corporation s ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements to meet counterparties  requests may be subject to certain limitations, including counterparty willingness, regulatory limitations on naming BANA as the new counterparty and the type or amount of collateral required. It is possible that such limitations on our ability to substitute or make changes to these agreements, including naming BANA as the new counterparty, could adversely affect our results of operations. 
  Derivatives contracts, including new and more complex derivatives products, and other transactions entered into with third parties are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a timely basis. While a transaction remains unconfirmed, or during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened credit, market and operational risk and, in the event of default, may find it more difficult to enforce the contract. In addition, disputes may arise with counterparties, including government entities, about the terms, enforceability and/or suitability of the underlying contracts. These factors could negatively impact our ability to effectively manage our risk exposures from these products and subject us to increased credit and operating costs and reputational risk. For more information on our derivatives exposure, see   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Market Risk 
  Market Risk is the Risk that Changes in Market Conditions May Adversely Impact the Value of Assets or Liabilities or Otherwise Negatively Impact Earnings. Market Risk is Inherent in the Financial Instruments Associated with our Operations, Including Loans, Deposits, Securities, Short-term Borrowings, Long-term Debt, Trading Account Assets and Liabilities, and Derivatives. 
  Increased market volatility and adverse changes in other financial or capital market conditions may increase our market risk. 
  Our liquidity, competitive position, business, results of operations and financial condition are affected by market risk factors such as changes in interest and currency exchange rates, equity and futures prices, the implied volatility of interest rates, credit spreads and other economic and business factors. These market risks may adversely affect, among other things, (i) the value of our on- and off-balance sheet securities, trading assets, other financial instruments, and MSRs, (ii) the cost of debt capital and our access to credit markets, (iii) the value of assets under management (AUM), (iv) fee income relating to AUM, (v) customer allocation of capital among investment alternatives, (vi) the volume  

of client activity in our trading operations, (vii) investment banking fees, and (viii) the general profitability and risk level of the transactions in which we engage. For example, the value of certain of our assets is sensitive to changes in market interest rates. If the Federal Reserve, or central banks internationally, change or signal a change in monetary policy, market interest rates could be affected, which could adversely impact the value of such assets. In addition, the ongoing prolonged low interest rate environment could negatively impact our liquidity, financial condition or results of operations, including future revenue and earnings growth. 
  We use various models and strategies to assess and control our market risk exposures but those are subject to inherent limitations. Our models, which rely on historical trends and assumptions, may not be sufficiently predictive of future results due to limited historical patterns, extreme or unanticipated market movements and illiquidity, especially during severe market downturns or stress events. The models that we use to assess and control our market risk exposures also reflect assumptions about the degree of correlation among prices of various asset classes or other market indicators. In addition, market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using historical data to manage risk. 
  In times of market stress or other unforeseen circumstances, such as the market conditions experienced in 2008 and 2009, previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or previously correlated indicators may move in different directions. These types of market movements have at times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated where other market participants are using risk or trading models with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk positions due to the activity of other market participants or widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets. To the extent that we own securities that do not have an established liquid trading market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In addition, challenging market conditions may also adversely affect our investment banking fees. 
  For more information about market risk and our market risk management policies and procedures, see   Market Risk Management   in the MD A on page   92  . 
  We may incur losses if the values of certain assets decline, including due to changes in interest rates and prepayment speeds. 
  We have a large portfolio of financial instruments, including, among others, certain loans and loan commitments, loans held-for-sale, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits, long-term debt, trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, available-for-sale (AFS) debt and equity securities, other debt securities, certain MSRs and certain other assets and liabilities that we measure at fair value. We determine the fair values of these instruments based on the fair value hierarchy under applicable accounting guidance. The fair values of these financial instruments include adjustments for market liquidity, credit quality, funding impact on certain derivatives and other transaction-specific factors, where appropriate. 

Gains or losses on these instruments can have a direct impact on our results of operations, including higher or lower mortgage banking income and earnings, unless we have effectively hedged our exposures. For example, decreases in interest rates and increases in mortgage prepayment speeds, which are influenced by interest rates and other factors such as reductions in mortgage insurance premiums and origination costs, could adversely impact the value of our MSR asset, cause a significant acceleration of purchase premium amortization on our mortgage portfolio, because a decline in long-term interest rates shortens the expected lives of the securities, and adversely affect our net interest margin. Conversely, increases in interest rates may result in a decrease in residential mortgage loan originations. In addition, increases in interest rates may adversely impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated other comprehensive income and, thus, capital levels. 
  Fair values may be impacted by declining values of the underlying assets or the prices at which observable market transactions occur and the continued availability of these transactions. The financial strength of counterparties, with whom we have economically hedged some of our exposure to these assets, also will affect the fair value of these assets. Sudden declines and volatility in the prices of assets may curtail or eliminate the trading activity for these assets, which may make it difficult to sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may increase our risk-weighted assets, which requires us to maintain additional capital and increases our funding costs. 
  Asset values also directly impact revenues in our asset management businesses. We receive asset-based management fees based on the value of our clients  portfolios or investments in funds managed by us and, in some cases, we also receive performance fees based on increases in the value of such investments. Declines in asset values can reduce the value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in turn can result in lower fees earned for managing such assets. 
  For more information about fair value measurements, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . For more information about our asset management businesses, see   GWIM   in the MD A on page   36  . For more information about interest rate risk management, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   in the MD A on page   97  . 
  Mortgage and Housing Market-Related Risk 
  Our mortgage loan repurchase obligations or claims from third parties could result in additional losses. 
  We and our legacy companies have sold significant amounts of residential mortgage loans. In connection with these sales, we or certain of our subsidiaries or legacy companies made various representations and warranties, breaches of which may result in a requirement that we repurchase the mortgage loans, or otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to counterparties (collectively, repurchases). At December 31, 2015, we had approximately   $18.4 billion   of unresolved repurchase claims, net of duplicate claims. These repurchase claims primarily related to private-label securitizations and exclude claims in the amount of $7.4 billion at December 31, 2015 where the statute of limitations has expired without litigation being commenced. We have also  

received notifications pertaining to loans for which we have not received a repurchase request from sponsors of third-party securitizations with whom the Corporation engaged in whole-loan transactions and for which we may owe indemnity obligations.  
  We have recorded a liability of   $11.3 billion   for obligations under representations and warranties exposures. We also have an estimated range of possible loss of up to   $2 billion   over our recorded liability. Our recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures are based on currently available information and are necessarily dependent on, and limited by, a number of factors including our historical claims and settlement experiences as well as significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. As a result, our liability and estimated range of possible loss related to our representations and warranties exposures may materially change in the future. Investors and other residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) counterparties have been engaged in judicial efforts to attempt to avoid or circumvent the impact of recent court rulings concerning the statute of limitations applicable to representations and warranties claims against RMBS sponsors, as well as pursuing other parties to such transaction. Future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of our recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss and such losses could have an adverse effect on our liquidity, financial condition and results of operations. For example, future representations and warranties losses could exceed our recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss if future settlement rates exceed our historical experience, or if investors and other RMBS counterparties are successful in their judicial efforts to avoid or circumvent the impact of recent court rulings concerning the statute of limitations applicable to representation and warranties claims against RMBS sponsors or pursue other parties to the RMBS transactions. 
  Additionally, our recorded liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss do not consider losses related to servicing foreclosure and related costs, fraud, indemnity, or claims (including for RMBS) related to securities law or monoline litigations. Losses with respect to one or more of these matters could be material to the Corporation s results of operations or liquidity for any particular reporting period.  
  For more information about our representations and warranties exposure, including the estimated range of possible loss, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   in the MD A on page   46  ,   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   in the MD A on page   66   and   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Failure to satisfy our obligations as servicer for residential mortgage securitizations, along with other losses we could incur in our capacity as servicer, and continued foreclosure delays and/or investigations into our residential mortgage foreclosure practices could cause losses. 
  We and our legacy companies have securitized a significant portion of the residential mortgage loans that we originated or acquired. We service a large portion of the loans we have securitized and also service loans on behalf of third-party securitization vehicles and other investors. If we commit a material breach of our obligations as servicer or master servicer, we may be subject to termination if the breach is not cured within a specified period of time following notice, which could cause us to lose servicing income. In addition, for loans principally held in  

private-label securitization trusts, we may have liability for any failure by us, as a servicer or master servicer, for any act or omission on our part that involves willful misfeasance, bad faith, gross negligence or reckless disregard of our duties. If any such breach were found to have occurred, it may harm our reputation, increase our servicing costs or adversely impact our results of operations. Additionally, with respect to foreclosures, we may incur costs or losses due to irregularities in the underlying documentation, or if the validity of a foreclosure action is challenged by a borrower or overturned by a court because of errors or deficiencies in the foreclosure process. We may also incur costs or losses relating to delays or alleged deficiencies in processing documents necessary to comply with state law governing foreclosures. 
  If the U.S. housing market weakens, or home prices decline, our consumer loan portfolios, credit quality, credit losses, representations and warranties exposures, and earnings may be adversely affected. 
  Although U.S. home prices continued to improve during 2015, the declines in prior years have negatively impacted the demand for many of our products. Additionally, our mortgage loan production volume is generally influenced by the rate of growth in residential mortgage debt outstanding and the size of the residential mortgage market. Conditions in the U.S. housing market in prior years have also resulted in significant write-downs of asset values in several asset classes, notably mortgage-backed securities, and increased exposure to monolines. If the U.S. housing market were to weaken, the value of real estate could decline, which could negatively affect our exposure to representations and warranties and could have an adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
  In addition, our home equity portfolio contains a significant percentage of loans in second-lien or more junior-lien positions, and such loans have elevated risk characteristics. Our home equity portfolio is largely comprised of HELOCs that have not yet entered their amortization period. HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. Loans in our HELOC portfolio generally have an initial draw period of 10 years and   44 percent   of these loans will enter the amortization period in 2016 and 2017. As a result, delinquencies and defaults may increase in future periods. For additional information, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   in the MD A on page   46   and   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   66  . 
  Changes in the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, or the conversion of the current conservatorship of the GSEs into receivership, could result in significant changes to our business operations and may adversely impact our business. 
  During 2015, we sold approximately $36.1 billion of loans to the GSEs. Each GSE is currently in a conservatorship with its primary regulator, the Federal Housing Finance Agency, acting as conservator. We cannot predict if, when or how the conservatorships will end, or any associated changes to the GSEs  business structure that could result. We also cannot predict whether the conservatorships will end in receivership. There are several proposed approaches to reform the GSEs that, if enacted,  

could change the structure of the GSEs and the relationship among the GSEs, the government and the private markets, including the trading markets for agency conforming mortgage loans and markets for mortgage-related securities in which we     participate. We cannot predict the prospects for the enactment, timing or content of legislative or rulemaking proposals regarding the future status of the GSEs. Accordingly, there continues to be uncertainty regarding the future of the GSEs, including whether they will continue to exist in their current form. 
  Regulatory, Compliance and Legal Risk 
  U.S. federal banking agencies may require us to hold higher levels of regulatory capital, increase our regulatory capital ratios or increase liquidity, which could result in the need to issue additional securities that qualify as regulatory capital or to take other actions, such as to sell company assets. 
  We are subject to U.S. regulators  risk-based capital and liquidity rules. These rules, among other things, establish minimum requirements to qualify as a  well-capitalized  institution. If any of our subsidiary insured depository institutions fail to maintain its status as  well capitalized  under the applicable regulatory capital rules, the Federal Reserve will require us to agree to bring the insured depository institution or institutions back to  well-capitalized  status. For the duration of such an agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose restrictions on our activities. If we were to fail to enter into such an agreement, or fail to comply with the terms of such agreement, the Federal Reserve may impose more severe restrictions on our activities, including requiring us to cease and desist activities permitted under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. 
  The current regulatory environment is fluid, with requirements frequently being introduced and amended. It is possible that increases in regulatory capital requirements, changes in how regulatory capital is calculated or increases to liquidity requirements could cause us to increase our capital levels by issuing additional common stock, thus diluting our existing shareholders, or by taking other actions, such as selling company assets. For example, we have been designated as a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) and as such, are subject to a risk-based capital surcharge (G-SIB surcharge) which could increase our capital ratio requirements higher than our estimated G-SIB of 3.0 percent. Further, the G-SIB surcharge applicable to us may change from time to time. Under the final U.S. rules, the G-SIB surcharge is being phased in beginning on January 1, 2016, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019. 
  Compliance with the regulatory capital and liquidity requirements may impact our ability to return capital to shareholders and may impact our operations by requiring us to liquidate assets, increase borrowings, issue additional equity or other securities, cease or alter certain operations, or hold highly liquid assets, which may adversely affect our results of operations. Additionally, we are required to submit a capital plan to the Federal Reserve on an annual basis. We may be prohibited from taking capital actions such as paying or increasing dividends, or repurchasing securities if the Federal Reserve objects to our capital plan. For additional information, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital   in the MD A on page   54  . 

The ultimate impact of the Federal Reserve Board s recently proposed rules requiring U.S. G-SIBs     to maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt meeting specified eligibility requirements is uncertain. 
  On October 30, 2015, the Federal Reserve released for comment proposed rules (the Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity, or TLAC, Rules) that would require the eight U.S. G-SIBs, including Bank of America, to, among other things, maintain minimum amounts of long-term debt satisfying certain eligibility criteria commencing January 1, 2019. As proposed, the TLAC Rules would disqualify from TLAC eligible long-term debt, among other instruments, debt securities that permit acceleration for reasons other than insolvency or payment default, as well as debt securities defined as structured notes in the TLAC Rules and debt securities not governed by U.S. law. Our currently outstanding senior long-term debt typically permits acceleration for reasons other than insolvency or payment default and, as a result, neither such outstanding senior long-term debt nor any subsequently issued senior long-term debt with similar terms would qualify as TLAC eligible long-term debt under the proposed rules. We may need to take action to comply with the final TLAC Rules depending in substantial part on the ultimate eligibility requirements for senior long-term debt and any grandfathering provisions, including actions to conform or replace our existing debt securities. 
  In the event of our resolution under our preferred single point of entry resolution strategy, such resolution could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and our ability to pay dividends to shareholders and to pay our obligations. 
  We are required to annually submit a plan to the Federal Reserve and the FDIC describing our resolution strategy under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code in the event of material financial distress or failure. In our current plan, our preferred resolution strategy is a single point of entry strategy. Under the strategy, upon certain severely adverse capital and liquidity conditions, before filing for resolution with the U.S. Bankruptcy court, we would recapitalize certain key operating subsidiaries by contributing substantially all of our assets (other than the stock of our direct subsidiaries and a reserve for expenses in resolution) with the goal of enabling these subsidiaries to continue operating. Following this recapitalization, only Bank of America Corporation would be resolved under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. We have arrangements with these key subsidiaries that govern these recapitalizations, which restrict the ability of these subsidiaries to provide funds to us through distributions and advances upon the occurrence of such capital and liquidity conditions. Our obligations under these arrangements are secured by certain of our assets. Any such recapitalizations under our resolution plan and/or these arrangements, or restrictions on the ability of our subsidiaries to provide funds to us, could (i) adversely affect our liquidity and our ability to pay dividends to our shareholders and to pay our obligations, and (ii) result in holders of our securities being in a worse position as a result thereof and suffering greater losses than would have been the case under bankruptcy, FDIC receivership or a different resolution plan. 
  Further, if the FDIC and Federal Reserve jointly determine that our resolution plan is not credible and we fail to cure the deficiencies, they could impose more stringent capital, leverage or liquidity requirements or restrictions on our growth, activities or operations, and we could be required to take certain actions that could impose operating costs and could potentially result in the divestiture or restructuring of certain businesses and subsidiaries.  

In addition, under the Financial Reform Act, when a G-SIB such as the Corporation is in default or danger of default, the FDIC may be appointed receiver in order to conduct an orderly liquidation of such institution. In the event of such appointment, the FDIC could, among other things, invoke the orderly liquidation authority, instead of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code, if the Secretary of the Treasury makes certain financial distress and systemic risk determinations. In 2013, the FDIC issued a notice describing its preferred  single point of entry  strategy for resolving a G-SIB. Under this approach, the FDIC could replace the Corporation with a bridge holding company, which could continue operations and result in an orderly resolution of the underlying bank, but whose equity is held solely for the benefit of our creditors. The FDIC s single point of entry strategy may result in our security holders suffering greater losses than would have been the case under a different resolution plan than the losses that may have resulted from the application of a bankruptcy proceeding or a different resolution strategy. 
  We are subject to comprehensive government legislation and regulations, both domestically and internationally, which impact our operating costs, and could require us to make changes to our operations and result in an adverse impact on our results of operations. Additionally, these regulations and uncertainty surrounding the scope and requirements of the final rules implementing recently enacted and proposed legislation, as well as certain settlements and consent orders we have entered into, have increased and will continue to increase our compliance and operational risks and costs. 
  We are subject to comprehensive regulation under federal and state laws in the U.S. and the laws of the various jurisdictions in which we operate. These laws and regulations significantly affect our business, and have the potential to restrict the scope of our existing businesses, limit our ability to pursue certain business opportunities or make our products and services more expensive for clients and customers. 
  Significant new legislation and regulations affecting the financial services industry have been enacted or proposed in recent years, both in the U.S. and globally. In response to the financial crisis, the U.S. adopted the Financial Reform Act, which has resulted in significant rulemaking and proposed rulemaking by the U.S. Department of the Treasury, the Federal Reserve, the OCC, the CFPB, Financial Stability Oversight Council, the FDIC, the SEC and CFTC. Under the provisions of the Financial Reform Act known as the  Volcker Rule,  we are prohibited from proprietary trading and limited in our sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge funds, private equity funds and certain other covered private funds. Non-U.S. regulators, such as the U.K. financial regulators and the European Parliament and Commission, have adopted or proposed laws and regulations regarding financial institutions located in their jurisdictions. Recent EU legislative and regulatory initiatives, including those relating to the resolution of financial institutions, the proposed separation of trading activities from core banking services, mandatory on-exchange trading, position limits and reporting rules for derivatives, governance and conduct of business requirements, interchange, and restrictions on compensation, could require us to make significant modifications to our non-U.S. businesses, operations and legal entity structure in order to comply with these requirements. 
  We continue to make adjustments to our business and operations, legal entity structure and capital and liquidity management policies, procedures and controls to comply with these new and proposed laws and regulations. However, a number of provisions still require final rulemaking, guidance and  

interpretation by regulatory authorities. Further, we could become subject to regulatory requirements beyond those currently proposed, adopted or contemplated. Accordingly, the cumulative effect of all of the new and proposed legislation and regulations on our business, operations and profitability remains uncertain. This uncertainty necessitates that in our business planning we make certain assumptions with respect to the scope and requirements of the proposed rules. If these assumptions prove incorrect, we could be subject to increased regulatory and compliance risks and costs as well as potential reputational harm. In addition, U.S. and international regulatory initiatives may overlap, and non-U.S. regulations and initiatives may be inconsistent or may conflict with current or proposed regulations in the U.S., which could lead to compliance risks and increased costs. 
  Our regulators  prudential and supervisory authority gives them broad power and discretion to direct our actions, and they have assumed an increasingly active oversight, inspection and investigatory role across the financial services industry. Regulatory focus is not limited to laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industry specifically, but also extends to other significant regulations such as Office of Foreign Assets Control, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.S. and international anti-money laundering regulations. The number of investigations and proceedings brought by regulators against the financial services industry generally has increased. As part of their enforcement authority, our regulators have the authority to, among other things, assess significant civil or criminal monetary penalties, fines or restitution, issue cease and desist or removal orders and initiate injunctive actions. Recently, the amounts paid by us and other financial institutions to settle proceedings or investigations have been increasing and are likely to continue to increase. In some cases, governmental authorities have required criminal pleas or other extraordinary terms as part of such settlements, which could have significant consequences for a financial institution, including reputational harm, loss of customers, restrictions on the ability to access capital markets, and the inability to operate certain businesses or offer certain products for a period of time. 
  The complexity of the federal and state regulatory and enforcement regimes in the U.S., coupled with the global scope of our operations and the increasing aggressiveness of the regulatory environment worldwide, also means that a single event or practice or a series of related events or practices may give rise to a large number of overlapping investigations and regulatory proceedings, either by multiple federal and state agencies in the U.S. or by multiple regulators and other governmental entities in different jurisdictions. Responding to inquiries, investigations, lawsuits and proceedings, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the matter, is time-consuming and expensive and can divert the attention of our senior management from our business. The outcome of such proceedings may be difficult to predict or estimate until late in the proceedings, which may last a number of years. 
  We are currently subject to the terms of settlements and consent orders that we have entered into with government agencies and may become subject to additional settlements or orders in the future. Such settlements and consent orders impose significant operational and compliance costs on us as they typically require us to enhance our procedures and controls, expand our risk and control functions within our lines of business, invest in technology and hire significant numbers of additional risk, control and compliance personnel. Moreover, if we fail to meet the requirements of the regulatory settlements and orders to which  

we are subject, or more generally, to maintain risk and control procedures and processes that meet the heightened standards established by our regulators and other government agencies, we could be required to enter into further settlements and orders, pay additional fines, penalties or judgments, or accept material regulatory restrictions on our businesses. 
  While we believe that we have adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs, compliance risks will continue to exist, particularly as we adapt to new rules and regulations. We also rely upon third parties who may expose us to compliance and legal risk. Future legislative or regulatory actions, and any required changes to our business or operations, or those of third parties upon whom we rely, resulting from such developments and actions, could result in a significant loss of revenue, impose additional compliance and other costs or otherwise reduce our profitability, limit the products and services that we offer or our ability to pursue certain business opportunities, require us to dispose of or curtail certain businesses, affect the value of assets that we hold, require us to increase our prices and therefore reduce demand for our products, or otherwise adversely affect our businesses. In addition, legal and regulatory proceedings and other contingencies will arise from time to time that may result in fines, penalties, equitable relief and changes to our business practices. As a result, we are and will continue to be subject to heightened compliance and operating costs that could adversely affect our results of operations.  
  We are subject to significant financial and reputational risks from potential liability arising from lawsuits, and regulatory and government action. 
  We face significant legal risks in our business, and the volume of claims and amount of damages, penalties and fines claimed in litigation, and regulatory and government proceedings against us and other financial institutions remains high. Greater than expected litigation and investigation costs, substantial legal liability or significant regulatory or government action against us could have adverse effects on our financial condition and results of operations or cause significant reputational harm to us, which in turn could adversely impact our business results and prospects. We continue to experience a significant volume of litigation and other disputes, including claims for contractual indemnification, with counterparties regarding relative rights and responsibilities. Consumers, clients and other counterparties have grown more litigious. Among other things, financial institutions, including the Corporation, increasingly have been the subject of claims alleging anti-competitive conduct with respect to various products and markets, including U.S. antitrust class actions claiming joint and several liability for treble damages. Our experience with certain regulatory authorities suggests an increasing supervisory focus on enforcement, including in connection with alleged violations of law and customer harm. Recent actions by regulators and government agencies indicate that they may, on an industry basis, increasingly pursue claims under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement act of 1989 (FIRREA) and the False Claims Act, as well as claims under the antitrust laws. FIRREA contemplates civil monetary penalties as high as $1.1 million per violation or, if permitted by the court, based on pecuniary gain derived or pecuniary loss suffered as a result of the violation. Treble damages are potentially available for False Claims Act and antitrust claims. The ongoing environment of additional regulation, increased regulatory compliance burdens, and enhanced regulatory and governmental enforcement, combined with ongoing uncertainty related to the continuing evolution of the regulatory  

environment, has resulted in operational and compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing certain products and services. 
  For more information on litigation risks, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We may be adversely affected by changes in U.S. and non-U.S. tax and other laws and regulations. 
  The U.S. Congress and the Administration have indicated an interest in reforming the U.S. corporate income tax code. Possible approaches include lowering the 35 percent corporate tax rate, modifying the taxation of income earned outside the U.S. and limiting or eliminating various other deductions, tax credits and/or other tax preferences. It is not possible at this time to quantify either the one-time impacts from the remeasurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities that might result upon tax reform enactment or the ongoing impacts reform proposals might have on income tax expense. 
  The Corporation has $7.3 billion of U.K. net deferred tax assets which consist primarily of net operating losses that are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Adjusted pretax income for these subsidiaries for 2015, 2014 and 2013 on a cumulative basis totaled $2.1 billion, excluding the impact of debit valuation adjustments and the adoption impact of a funding valuation adjustment. Adverse developments with respect to tax laws or to other material factors, such as a prolonged worsening of Europe s capital markets, could lead management to reassess and/or change its current conclusion that no valuation allowance is necessary with respect to our U.K. net deferred tax assets. 
  Other countries have also proposed and adopted certain regulatory changes targeted at financial institutions or that otherwise affect us. The EU has adopted increased capital requirements and the U.K. has (i) increased liquidity requirements for local financial institutions, including regulated U.K. subsidiaries of non-U.K. BHCs and other financial institutions as well as branches of non-U.K. banks located in the U.K.; (ii) adopted a Bank Levy, which applies to the aggregate balance sheet of branches and subsidiaries of non-U.K. banks and banking groups operating in the U.K.; and (iii) proposed the creation and production of recovery and resolution plans by U.K.-regulated entities. 
  Risk of the Competitive Environment in which We Operate 
  We face significant and increasing competition in the financial services industry. 
  We operate in a highly competitive environment and will continue to experience intense competition from local and global financial institutions as well as new entrants, in both domestic and foreign markets. Additionally, the changing regulatory environment may create competitive disadvantages for certain financial institutions given geography-driven capital and liquidity requirements. For example, U.S. regulators have in certain instances adopted stricter capital and liquidity requirements than those applicable to non-U.S. institutions. To the extent we expand into new business areas and new geographic regions, we may face competitors with more experience and more established relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability to compete. In addition, technological advances and the growth of e-commerce have made it easier for non-depository institutions to  

offer products and services that traditionally were banking products, and for financial institutions to compete with technology companies in providing electronic and internet-based financial solutions including electronic securities trading, marketplace lending, and payment processing. Increased competition may negatively affect our earnings by creating pressure to lower prices or credit standards on our products and services requiring additional investment to improve the quality and delivery of our technology and/or reducing our market share. 
  Damage to our reputation could harm our businesses, including our competitive position and business prospects. 
  Our ability to attract and retain customers, clients, investors and employees is impacted by our reputation. We continue to face increased public and regulatory scrutiny as well as alleged irregularities in servicing, foreclosure, consumer collections, mortgage loan modifications and other practices, compensation practices, and the suitability or reasonableness of recommending particular trading or investment strategies. 
  Harm to our reputation can also arise from other sources, including employee misconduct, security breaches, unethical behavior, litigation or regulatory outcomes, failing to deliver standards of service and quality expected by our customers and clients, compliance failures, inadequacy of responsiveness to internal controls, unintended disclosure of confidential information, and the activities of our clients, customers and counterparties, including vendors. In addition, adverse publicity or negative information posted on social media websites, whether or not factually correct, may adversely impact our business prospects or financial results. Actions by the financial services industry generally or by certain members or individuals in the industry also can adversely affect our reputation. 
  We are subject to complex and evolving laws and regulations regarding privacy, data protections and other matters. Principles concerning the appropriate scope of consumer and commercial privacy vary considerably in different jurisdictions, and regulatory and public expectations regarding the definition and scope of consumer and commercial privacy may remain fluid. It is possible that these laws may be interpreted and applied by various jurisdictions in a manner inconsistent with our current or future practices, or that is inconsistent with one another. We face regulatory, reputational and operational risks if personal, confidential or proprietary information of customers or clients in our possession is mishandled or misused. 
  We could suffer reputational harm if we fail to properly identify and manage potential conflicts of interest. Management of potential conflicts of interests has become increasingly complex as we expand our business activities through more numerous transactions, obligations and interests with and among our clients. The failure to adequately address, or the perceived failure to adequately address, conflicts of interest could affect the willingness of clients to deal with us, or give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which could adversely affect our businesses. 
  Our actual or perceived failure to address these and other issues gives rise to reputational risk that could cause harm to us and our business prospects, including failure to properly address operational risks. Failure to appropriately address any of these issues could also give rise to additional regulatory restrictions, legal risks and reputational harm, which could, among other consequences, increase the size and number of litigation claims and damages asserted or subject us to enforcement actions, fines and penalties and cause us to incur related costs and expenses. 

Our ability to attract and retain qualified employees is critical to the success of our business and failure to do so could hurt our business prospects and competitive position. 
  Our performance is heavily dependent on the talents and efforts of highly skilled individuals. Competition for qualified personnel within the financial services industry and from businesses outside the financial services industry has been, and is expected to continue to be, intense. Our competitors include non-U.S. based institutions and institutions subject to different compensation and hiring regulations than those imposed on U.S. institutions and financial institutions.  
  In order to attract and retain qualified personnel, we must provide market-level compensation. As a large financial and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on compensation practices (which may or may not affect our competitors) by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC or other regulators around the world. For instance, recent EU rules limit and subject to clawback certain forms of variable compensation for senior employees. Current and potential future limitations on executive compensation imposed by legislation or regulation could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain qualified employees. Furthermore, a substantial portion of our annual incentive compensation paid to our senior employees has in recent years taken the form of long-term equity awards. Therefore, the ultimate value of this compensation depends on the price of our common stock when the awards vest. If we are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified individuals, our business prospects and competitive position could be adversely affected. 
  Our inability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards and consumer preferences could harm our business. 
  Our business model is based on a diversified mix of business that provides a broad range of financial products and services, delivered through multiple distribution channels. Our success depends on our ability to adapt our products and services to evolving industry standards. There is increasing pressure by competitors to provide products and services at lower prices and this may impact our ability to grow revenue and/or effectively compete, in part, due to legislative and regulatory developments that affect the competitive landscape. Additionally, the competitive landscape may be impacted by the growth of non-depository institutions that offer products that were traditionally banking products as well as new innovative products. This can reduce our net interest margin and revenues from our fee-based products and services. In addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including internet services and payment systems, could require substantial expenditures to modify or adapt our existing products and services as we grow and develop our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies in addition to remote connectivity solutions. We might not be successful in developing or introducing new products and services, integrating new products or services into our existing offerings, responding or adapting to changes in consumer behavior, preferences, spending, investing and/or saving habits, achieving market acceptance of our products and services, reducing costs in response to pressures to deliver products and services at lower prices or sufficiently developing and maintaining loyal customers. 

Risks Related to Risk Management 
  Our risk management framework may not be effective in mitigating risk and reducing the potential for losses. 
  Our risk management framework is designed to minimize risk and loss to us. We seek to identify, measure, monitor, report and control our exposure to the types of risk to which we are subject, including strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks, among others. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and mitigation techniques, including hedging strategies and techniques that seek to balance our ability to profit from trading positions with our exposure to potential losses, those techniques are inherently limited because they cannot anticipate the existence or future development of currently unanticipated or unknown risks. For instance, we use various models to assess and control risk, but those are subject to inherent limitations. 
  Additionally, we are reliant on our ability to manage data and our ability to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner to ensure effective risk reporting and management. Our ability to manage data and aggregate data may be limited by the effectiveness of our policies, programs, processes and practices that govern how data is acquired, validated, stored, protected and processed. While we continuously update our policies, programs, processes and practices, many of our data management and aggregation processes are manual and subject to human error or system failure. Failure to manage data effectively and to aggregate data in an accurate and timely manner may limit our ability to manage current and emerging risk, as well as to manage changing business needs. 
  Our risk management framework is also dependent on ensuring that a sound risk culture exists throughout the Corporation, as well as ensuring that we manage risks associated with third parties and vendors. Recent economic conditions, heightened legislative and regulatory scrutiny of the financial services industry and the overall complexity of our operations, among other developments, have resulted in a heightened level of risk for us. Accordingly, we could suffer losses as a result of our failure to properly anticipate and manage risks. 
  For more information about our risk management policies and procedures, see   Managing Risk   in the MD A on page   49  . 
  A failure in or breach of our operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, could disrupt our businesses, and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause reputational harm.  
  The potential for operational risk exposure exists throughout our organization and as a result of our interactions with third parties, and is not limited to our operational functions. Our operational and security systems, infrastructure, including our computer systems, data management, and internal processes, as well as those of third parties, are integral to our performance. In addition, we rely on our employees and third parties in our day-to-day and ongoing operations, who may, as a result of human error, misconduct or malfeasance or failure or breach of third-party systems or infrastructure, expose us to risk. We have taken measures to implement backup systems and other safeguards to support our operations, but our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by any significant disruptions to us or to third parties with whom we interact. In addition, our ability to implement backup systems and other safeguards with respect to third-party systems is more limited than with respect to our own systems. Our financial, accounting, data processing, backup or other operating or security systems and infrastructure may fail to  

operate properly or become disabled or damaged as a result of a number of factors including events that are wholly or partially beyond our control which could adversely affect our ability to process these transactions or provide these services. There could be sudden increases in customer transaction volume; electrical, telecommunications or other major physical infrastructure outages; natural disasters such as earthquakes, tornadoes, hurricanes and floods; disease pandemics; and events arising from local or larger scale political or social matters, including terrorist acts. We continuously update these systems to support our operations and growth. This updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing ones. Operational risk exposures could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause reputational harm. 
  A cyber attack, information or security breach, or a technology failure of ours or of a third party could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses, result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential or proprietary information, increase our costs to maintain and update our operational and security systems and infrastructure, and adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition, as well as cause reputational harm. 
  Our businesses are highly dependent on the security and efficacy of our infrastructure, computer and data management systems, as well as those of third parties with whom we interact. Cyber security risks for financial institutions have significantly increased in recent years in part because of the proliferation of new technologies, the use of the Internet and telecommunications technologies to conduct financial transactions, and the increased sophistication and activities of organized crime, hackers, terrorists and other external parties, including foreign state actors. Our businesses rely on the secure processing, transmission, storage and retrieval of confidential, proprietary and other information in our computer and data management systems and networks, and in the computer and data management systems and networks of third parties. We rely on digital technologies, computer, database and email systems, software, and networks to conduct our operations. In addition, to access our network, products and services, our customers and other third parties may use personal mobile devices or computing devices that are outside of our network environment. We, our customers, regulators and other third parties have been subject to, and are likely to continue to be the target of, cyber attacks. These cyber attacks include computer viruses, malicious or destructive code, phishing attacks, denial of service or information or other security breaches, that could result in the unauthorized release, gathering, monitoring, misuse, loss or destruction of confidential, proprietary and other information of the Corporation, our employees, our customers or of third parties, or otherwise materially disrupt our or our customers  or other third parties  network access or business operations. For example, in recent years, we have been subject to malicious activity, including distributed denial of service attacks. Additionally, several large retailers have disclosed substantial cyber security breaches affecting debit and credit card accounts of their customers, some of whom were our cardholders. Although these incidents have not, to date, had a material impact on us, we believe that such incidents will continue, and we are unable to predict the severity of such future attacks on us. Our counterparties, regulators, customers and clients, and other third parties with whom we or our customers and clients interact are exposed to similar incidents, and incidents affecting those third parties could impact us. 

Although to date we have not experienced any material losses or other material consequences relating to technology failure, cyber attacks or other information or other security breaches, there can be no assurance that we will not suffer such losses or other consequences in the future. Our risk and exposure to these matters remains heightened because of, among other things, the evolving nature of these threats, our prominent size and scale, and our role in the financial services industry and the broader economy, our plans to continue to implement our internet banking and mobile banking channel strategies and develop additional remote connectivity solutions to serve our customers when and how they want to be served, our continuous transmission of sensitive information to, and storage of such information by, third parties, including our vendors and regulators, our expanded geographic footprint and international presence, the outsourcing of some of our business operations, the continued uncertain global economic environment, threats of cyber terrorism, external extremist parties, including foreign state actors, in some circumstances as a means to promote political ends, and system and customer account updates and conversions. As a result, cyber security and the continued development and enhancement of our controls, processes and practices designed to protect our systems, computers, software, data and networks from attack, damage or unauthorized access remain a priority for us. As cyber threats continue to evolve, we may be required to expend significant additional resources to continue to modify or enhance our protective measures or to investigate and remediate any information security vulnerabilities or incidents. 
  We also face indirect technology, cyber security and operational risks relating to the third parties with whom we do business or upon whom we rely to facilitate or enable our business activities. In addition to customers and clients, the third parties with whom we interact and upon whom we rely include financial counterparties; financial intermediaries such as clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses; vendors; regulators; providers of critical infrastructure such as internet access and electrical power, and retailers for whom we process transactions. Each of these third parties faces the risk of cyber attack, information breach or loss, or technology failure. Any such cyber attack, information breach or loss, or technology failure of a third party could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses. As a result of financial entities and technology systems becoming more interdependent and complex, a cyber incident, information breach or loss, or technology failure that significantly degrades, deletes or compromises the systems or data of one or more financial entities could have a material impact on counterparties or other market participants, including the Corporation. For example, in recent years, there has been significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and increased interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses. This consolidation and interconnectivity increases the risk of operational failure, on both individual and industry-wide bases, as disparate complex systems need to be integrated, often on an accelerated basis. Any such cyber attack, information breach or loss, failure, termination or constraint could, among other things, adversely affect our ability to effect transactions, service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our businesses. 
  Any of the matters discussed above could result in our loss of customers and business opportunities, significant business disruption to our operations and business, misappropriation or  

destruction of our confidential information and/or that of our customers, or damage to our customers  and/or third parties  computers or systems, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy laws and other laws, litigation exposure, regulatory fines, penalties or intervention, loss of confidence in our security measures, reputational damage, reimbursement or other compensatory costs, and additional compliance costs. In addition, any of the matters described above could adversely impact our results of operations, liquidity and financial condition. 
  Risk of Being an International Business 
  We are subject to numerous political, economic, market, reputational, operational, legal, regulatory and other risks in the non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we operate. 
  We do business throughout the world, including in developing regions of the world commonly known as emerging markets. Our businesses and revenues derived from non-U.S. jurisdictions are subject to risk of loss from currency fluctuations, financial, social or judicial instability, changes in governmental policies or policies of central banks, expropriation, nationalization and/or confiscation of assets, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls, other restrictive actions, unfavorable political and diplomatic developments, oil price fluctuation and changes in legislation. These risks are especially elevated in emerging markets. A number of non-U.S. jurisdictions in which we do business have been negatively impacted by slowing growth rates or recessionary conditions, market volatility and/or political unrest. The eurozone economy grew modestly in 2015 but faces continuing challenges, including uncertainty regarding economic performance in emerging markets, some weakened appreciably by the severe decline in oil prices. The influx of refugees, related to the war in Syria, and continued political uncertainty relating to various nations  fiscal plans have the potential to negatively impact consumer and business confidence and credit factors, affecting our business and operation results. Notably, sovereign debt purchases by the European Central Bank have supported Southern European financial markets but risks remain. The economy in China continues to gradually slow while facing longer term readjustment challenge. Russia and Brazil remain nations in the midst of severe downturns. 
  Additionally, the U.K. government has announced the possibility of a referendum regarding the U.K. s continued membership in the EU. The referendum is expected to occur before the end of 2017. An exit of the U.K. from the EU could significantly affect the fiscal, monetary and regulatory landscape in the U.K. We conduct business in Europe primarily through our U.K. subsidiaries. An exit from the EU could impact our operations in the EU and may result in moving some of our operations in the U.K. to our EU based entities, which could impose costs on us and could have an impact on our business, finance condition and results of operations. 
  Potential risks of default on sovereign debt in some non-U.S. jurisdictions remain and could expose us to substantial losses. Risks in one nation can limit our opportunities for portfolio growth and negatively affect our operations in another nation or nations, including our U.S. operations. Market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, corporate investment and job creation, bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and corporate debt, economic growth rates and asset values, among other factors. Any such unfavorable conditions or developments could have an adverse impact on our company. 

Our non-U.S. businesses are also subject to extensive regulation by various regulators, including governments, securities exchanges, central banks and other regulatory bodies, in the jurisdictions in which those businesses operate. In many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services and securities industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market or manage our relationships with multiple regulators in various jurisdictions. Our potential inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market and manage our relationships with regulators could have an adverse effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation in general. 
  We also invest or trade in the securities of corporations and governments located in non-U.S. jurisdictions, including emerging markets. Revenues from the trading of non-U.S. securities may be subject to negative fluctuations as a result of the above factors. Furthermore, the impact of these fluctuations could be magnified, because non-U.S. trading markets, particularly in emerging market countries, are generally smaller, less liquid and more volatile than U.S. trading markets. 
  In addition to non-U.S. legislation, our international operations are also subject to U.S. legal requirements. For example, our international operations are subject to U.S. laws on foreign corrupt practices, the Office of Foreign Assets Control, and anti-money laundering regulations. 
  We are subject to geopolitical risks, including acts or threats of terrorism, and actions taken by the U.S. or other governments in response thereto and/or military conflicts, which could adversely affect business and economic conditions abroad as well as in the U.S. 
  For more information on our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   in the MD A on page   86  . 
  Risk from Accounting Changes 
  Changes in accounting standards or inaccurate estimates or assumptions in applying accounting policies could adversely affect us. 
  Our accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how we record and report our financial condition and results of operations. Some of these policies require use of estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported value of our assets or liabilities and results of operations and are critical because they require management to make difficult, subjective and complex judgments about matters that are inherently uncertain. If those assumptions, estimates or judgments were incorrectly made, we could be required to correct and restate prior-period financial statements. Accounting standard-setters and those who interpret the accounting standards (such as the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB), the SEC, banking regulators and our independent registered public accounting firm) may also amend or even reverse their previous interpretations or positions on how various standards should be applied. These changes may be difficult to predict and could impact how we prepare and report our financial statements. In some cases, we could be required to apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the Corporation possibly needing to revise and republish prior-period financial statements. 
  The FASB issued in 2012 a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. The standard would replace multiple existing impairment models, including replacing an  incurred loss  model  

for loans with an  expected loss  model. The FASB has indicated a tentative effective date of January 1, 2019, and final guidance is expected to be issued in the second quarter of 2016. The final standard may materially reduce retained earnings in the period of adoption. 
  For more information on some of our critical accounting policies and recent accounting changes, see   Complex Accounting Estimates   in the MD A on page   100   and   Note 1   Summary of  

Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
  None 

Item 2.  Properties 
  As of   December 31, 2015  , our principal offices and other materially important properties consisted of the following: 

Facility Name 
      
    Location 
      
    General Character of the Physical Property 
      
    Primary Business Segment 
      
    Property Status 
      
    Property Square Feet    (1)  
      Bank of America Corporate Center 
      
    Charlotte, NC 
      
    60 Story Building 
      
    Principal Executive Offices 
      
    Owned 
      
    1,200,392 
      Bank of America Tower at One Bryant Park 
      
    New York, NY 
      
    55 Story Building 
      
    GWIM, Global Banking   and 
   Global Markets 
      
    Leased    (2)  
      
    1,798,373 
       Bank of America Merrill Lynch Financial Centre 
      
    London, UK 
      
    4 Building Campus 
      
    Global Banking   and   Global Markets 
      
    Leased 
      
    565,931 
      Cheung Kong Center 
      
    Hong Kong 
      
    62 Story Building 
      
    Global Banking   and   Global Markets 
      
    Leased 
      
    149,790 

(1)   
    For leased properties, property square feet represents the square footage occupied by the Corporation. 
               (2)   
    The Corporation has a 49.9 percent joint venture interest in this property. 
       We own or lease approximately 84.3 million square feet in 22,512 facility and ATM locations globally, including approximately 78.4 million square feet in the U.S. (all 50 states and the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands and Puerto Rico) and approximately 5.9 million square feet in more than   35   countries. 
  We believe our owned and leased properties are adequate for our business needs and are well maintained. We continue to evaluate our owned and leased real estate and may determine from time to time that certain of our premises and facilities, or ownership structures, are no longer necessary for our operations. In connection therewith, we are evaluating the sale or sale/leaseback of certain properties and we may incur costs in connection with any such transactions. 

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
  See Litigation and Regulatory Matters in   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , which is incorporated herein by reference. 
    Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures 
  None 

Part II 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
    Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. Our common stock is also listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Tokyo Stock Exchange. As of   February 23, 2016  , there were   193,422   registered shareholders of common stock. The table below sets forth the high and low closing sales prices of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the periods indicated during   2014   and   2015  , as well as the dividends we paid on a quarterly basis: 

For more information regarding our ability to pay dividends, see   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity   and   Note 16   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , which are incorporated herein by reference. 
  For information on our equity compensation plans, see   Note 18   Stock-based Compensation Plans     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and   Item 12   on page   254   of this report, which are incorporated herein by reference. 
  The table below presents share repurchase activity for the three months ended   December 31, 2015  . The primary source of funds for cash distributions by the Corporation to its shareholders is dividends received from its banking subsidiaries. Each of the banking subsidiaries is subject to various regulatory policies and requirements relating to the payment of dividends, including requirements to maintain capital above regulatory minimums. All of the Corporation s preferred stock outstanding has preference over the Corporation s common stock with respect to payment of dividends. 

(1)   
    Includes shares of the Corporation s common stock acquired by the Corporation in connection with satisfaction of tax withholding obligations on vested restricted stock or restricted stock units and certain forfeitures and terminations of employment-related awards under equity incentive plans. 
               (2)   
    On March 11, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $4.0 billion of the Corporation s common stock through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including Rule 10b5-1 plans, during the period from April 1, 2015 through June 30, 2016. For additional information, see Capital Management -- CCAR and Capital Planning on page   53   and   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity   to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     The Corporation did not have any unregistered sales of its equity securities in   2015  . 
    Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 
  See   Table 8   in the MD A on page   29   and Statistical Table X in the MD A on page   118  , which are incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 7.  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

Table of Contents 

Page 
       Executive Summary  
      
    22 
       Recent Events  
      
    22 
       Financial Highlights  
      
    24 
       Balance Sheet Overview  
      
    27 
       Supplemental Financial Data  
      
    30 
       Business Segment Operations  
      
    32 
       Consumer Banking  
      
    33 
       Global Wealth   Investment Management  
      
    36 
       Global Banking  
      
    38 
       Global Markets  
      
    40 
       Legacy Assets   Servicing  
      
    42 
       All Other  
      
    45 
       Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations  
      
    46 
       Managing Risk  
      
    49 
       Strategic Risk Management  
      
    53 
       Capital Management  
      
    53 
       Liquidity Risk  
      
    60 
       Credit Risk Management  
      
    65 
       Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management  
      
    66 
       Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management  
      
    77 
       Non-U.S. Portfolio  
      
    86 
       Provision for Credit Losses  
      
    88 
       Allowance for Credit Losses  
      
    88 
       Market Risk Management  
      
    92 
       Trading Risk Management  
      
    93 
       Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities  
      
    97 
       Mortgage Banking Risk Management  
      
    99 
       Compliance Risk Management  
      
    99 
       Operational Risk Management  
      
    99 
       Reputational Risk Management  
      
    100 
       Complex Accounting Estimates  
      
    100 
       2014 Compared to 2013  
      
    105 
       Overview  
      
    105 
       Business Segment Operations  
      
    106 
       Statistical Tables  
      
    108 
       Glossary  
      
    126 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
    This report, the documents that it incorporates by reference and the documents into which it may be incorporated by reference may contain, and from time to time Bank of America Corporation (collectively with its subsidiaries, the Corporation) and its management may make certain statements that constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Forward-looking statements often use words such as  anticipates,   targets,   expects,   hopes,   estimates,   intends,   plans,   goals,   believes,   continue,  "suggests" and other similar expressions or future or conditional verbs such as  will,   may,   might,   should,   would  and  could.  Forward-looking statements represent the Corporation     s current expectations, plans or forecasts of its future results and revenues, and future business and economic conditions more generally, and other future matters. These statements are not guarantees of future results or performance and involve certain known and unknown risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict and are often beyond the Corporation     s control. Actual outcomes and results may differ materially from those expressed in, or implied by, any of these forward-looking statements. 
  You should not place undue reliance on any forward-looking statement and should consider the following uncertainties and risks, as well as the risks and uncertainties more fully discussed elsewhere in this report, including under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and in any of the Corporation s subsequent Securities and Exchange Commission filings: the Corporation s ability to resolve representations and warranties repurchase and related claims, including claims brought by investors or trustees seeking to distinguish certain aspects of the ACE Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products, Inc. (ACE) decision or to assert other claims seeking to avoid the impact of the ACE decision; the possibility that the Corporation could face servicing, securities, fraud, indemnity, contribution or other claims from one or more counterparties, including trustees, purchasers of loans, underwriters, issuers, other parties involved in securitizations, monolines or private-label and other investors; the possibility that future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the Corporation     s recorded liability and estimated range of possible loss for its representations and warranties exposures; the possibility that the Corporation may not collect mortgage insurance claims; potential claims, damages, penalties, fines and reputational damage resulting from pending or future litigation and regulatory  

proceedings, including the possibility that amounts may be in excess of the Corporation s recorded liability and estimated range of possible losses for litigation exposures; the possible outcome of LIBOR, other reference rate and foreign exchange inquiries and investigations; uncertainties about the financial stability and growth rates of non-U.S. jurisdictions, the risk that those jurisdictions may face difficulties servicing their sovereign debt, and related stresses on financial markets, currencies and trade, and the Corporation     s exposures to such risks, including direct, indirect and operational; the impact of U.S. and global interest rates, currency exchange rates and economic conditions; the possibility that future credit losses may be higher than currently expected due to changes in economic assumptions, customer behavior and other uncertainties; the impact on the Corporation     s business, financial condition and results of operations of a potential higher interest rate environment; the impact on the Corporation     s business, financial condition and results of operations from a protracted period of lower oil prices; adverse changes to the Corporation     s credit ratings from the major credit rating agencies; estimates of the fair value of certain of the Corporation     s assets and liabilities; uncertainty regarding the content, timing and impact of regulatory capital and liquidity requirements, including the potential adoption of total loss-absorbing capacity requirements; the potential for payment protection insurance exposure to increase as a result of Financial Conduct Authority actions; the possible impact of Federal Reserve actions on the Corporation s capital plans; the impact of implementation and compliance with new and evolving U.S. and international regulations, including, but not limited to, recovery and resolution planning requirements, the Volcker Rule, and derivatives regulations; a failure in or breach of the Corporation s operational or security systems or infrastructure, or those of third parties, including as a result of cyber attacks and other similar matters. 
  Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and the Corporation undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking statement to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the date the forward-looking statement was made. 
  Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to in the Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) are incorporated by reference into the MD A. Certain prior-year amounts have been reclassified to conform to current-year presentation. Throughout the MD A, the Corporation uses certain acronyms and abbreviations which are defined in the Glossary. 

Executive Summary 
  Business Overview 
  The Corporation is a Delaware corporation, a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company. When used in this report,  the Corporation  may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. Our principal executive offices are located in Charlotte, North Carolina. Through our banking and various nonbank subsidiaries throughout the U.S. and in international markets, we provide a diversified range of banking and nonbank financial services and products through five business segments:   Consumer Banking  ,   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  ,   Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   Legacy Assets   Servicing (LAS)  , with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  . We operate our banking activities primarily under the Bank of America, National Association (Bank of America, N.A. or BANA) charter. At   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation had approximately   $2.1 trillion   in assets and approximately   213,000   full-time equivalent employees. 
  As of   December 31, 2015  , we operated in all 50 states, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico and more than   35   countries. Our retail banking footprint covers approximately 80 percent of the U.S. population, and we serve approximately   47 million   consumer and small business relationships with approximately   4,700   retail financial centers, approximately   16,000   ATMs, nationwide call centers, and leading online and mobile banking platforms (www.bankofamerica.com). We offer industry-leading support to approximately   three million   small business owners. Our wealth management businesses, with client balances of nearly   $2.5 trillion  , provide tailored solutions to meet client needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking, trust and retirement products. We are a global leader in corporate and investment banking and trading across a broad range of asset classes serving corporations, governments, institutions and individuals around the world. 
  2015   Economic and Business Environment 
  In the U.S., the economy grew in   2015   for the seventh consecutive year. Following a soft start to the year partly reflecting severe winter weather and other temporary factors, economic growth picked up mid-year before a mild deceleration near year end. While economic growth struggled to reach two percent in the year, the labor market continued to improve. Payroll gains were solid, while the unemployment rate fell to five percent late in the year. With steady employment gains and continued low oil prices, consumer spending increased at a strong pace for most of the year and residential construction gained momentum. Core inflation (which excludes certain items which may be subject to frequent volatile price changes, like food and energy) remained relatively unchanged in 2015, more than half a percentage point below the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System s (Federal Reserve) longer-term target of two percent. Inflation was suppressed by falling energy costs. 
  U.S. household net worth rose for a seventh consecutive year, but at a slower pace in 2015. After a modest first half of the year, home prices rebounded in the second half of 2015 and rose more than five percent in 2015, while equity markets registered little net change. With energy costs continuing to decline in 2015, the  

consumer spending outlook remained positive, although the negative impacts on energy-related investments hurt the manufacturing economy and continued to impact financial markets. With the sharp U.S. Dollar appreciation in late 2014 and 2015, export gains slowed, further weakening manufacturing, while import growth was steady, resulting in a decline in net exports and a negative impact on 2015 gross domestic product growth. 
  U.S. Treasury yields were unstable, but rose modestly over the course of the year, as a rate hike from the Federal Reserve neared. At its final meeting of the year, the Federal Open Market Committee (FOMC) raised its target range for the Federal funds rate by 25 basis points (bps), its first rate increase in over nine years. At the same time, the Federal Reserve repeated its expectation that policy would be normalized gradually, and would remain accommodative for the foreseeable future. Amid the contrast between U.S. tightening of monetary policy versus the easing of monetary policy in much of the world, the U.S. Dollar appreciated significantly over the year, especially against emerging market and commodity-oriented currencies. 
  Internationally, the eurozone continued to grow modestly in 2015, as the European Central Bank (ECB) began a program of significant purchases of sovereign debt, helping to keep bond yields low and to maintain stability in southern European markets. Core inflation in the eurozone stabilized early and then edged higher over the year. The Euro/U.S. Dollar exchange rate continued to decline early in the year driven by the differing directions of U.S. and eurozone monetary policies, further boosting European competitiveness. However, the eurozone remains vulnerable to economic slowing in emerging markets. Late in the year, the ECB extended its horizon for bond purchases, but failed to increase their size.  
  Economic growth was slow and uncertain in Japan, while the 2014 gains in core inflation were reversed. Declining energy costs continued to hurt Russia s economy, which remained in recession for 2015. Brazil s recession also continued, aggravated by extreme policy uncertainty. Amid continued gradual economic moderation, China eased monetary policy during the year, but continued its focus on longer-run issues including increasing its focus on rebalancing the economy and encouraging consumer spending. 
    Recent Events 
  Settlement with Bank of New York Mellon 
  The final conditions of the settlement with the Bank of New York Mellon (BNY Mellon) have been satisfied and, accordingly, the Corporation made the settlement payment of $8.5 billion in February 2016. The settlement payment was previously fully reserved. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, allocation and distribution of the $8.5 billion settlement payment is the responsibility of the residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) trustee, BNY Mellon. On February 5, 2016, BNY Mellon filed an Article 77 proceeding in the New York County Supreme Court asking the court for instruction with respect to certain issues concerning the distribution of each trust s allocable share of the settlement payment and asking that the settlement payment be ordered to be held in escrow pending the outcome of this Article 77 proceeding. The Corporation is not a party to this proceeding. For additional information, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   on page   46  . 

Capital Management 
  During 2015, we repurchased approximately   $2.4 billion   of common stock, with an average price of $16.92 per share, in connection with our 2015 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) capital plan, which included a request to repurchase $4.0 billion of common stock over five quarters beginning in the second quarter of 2015, and to maintain the quarterly common stock dividend at the current rate of $0.05 per share.  
  Based on the conditional non-objection we received from the Federal Reserve on our 2015 CCAR submission, we were required to resubmit our CCAR capital plan by September 30, 2015 and address certain weaknesses the Federal Reserve identified in our capital planning process. We have established plans and taken actions which addressed the identified weaknesses, and we resubmitted our CCAR capital plan on September 30, 2015. The Federal Reserve announced that it did not object to our resubmitted CCAR capital plan on December 10, 2015. 
  As an Advanced approaches institution, under Basel 3, we were required to complete a qualification period (parallel run) to demonstrate compliance with the Basel 3 Advanced approaches capital framework to the satisfaction of U.S. banking regulators. We received approval to begin using the Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements beginning in the fourth quarter of 2015. As previously disclosed, with the approval to exit parallel run, U.S. banking regulators requested modifications to certain internal analytical models including the wholesale (e.g., commercial) credit models. All requested modifications were incorporated, which increased our risk-weighted assets, and are reflected in the risk-based ratios in the fourth quarter of 2015. Having exited parallel run on October 1, 2015, we are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the Prompt Corrective Action (PCA) framework and was the Advanced approaches in the fourth quarter of 2015. For additional information, see Capital Management on page   53  . 

Trust Preferred Securities 
  On December 29, 2015, the Corporation provided notice of the redemption on January 29, 2016 of all trust preferred securities of Merrill Lynch Preferred Capital Trust III, Merrill Lynch Preferred Capital Trust IV and Merrill Lynch Preferred Capital Trust V (the Trust Preferred Securities). In connection with the Corporation s acquisition of Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. in 2009, the Corporation recorded a discount to par value as purchase accounting adjustments associated with the Trust Preferred Securities. The Corporation recorded a $612 million charge to net interest income related to the discount on these securities. 
  New Accounting Guidance on Recognition and Measurement of Financial Instruments 
  In January 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. The Corporation has early adopted, retrospective to January 1, 2015, the provision that requires the Corporation to present unrealized gains and losses resulting from changes in the Corporation s own credit spreads on liabilities accounted for under the fair value option (referred to as debit valuation adjustments, or DVA) in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI). The impact of the adoption was to reclassify, as of January 1, 2015, unrealized DVA losses of $2.0 billion pretax ($1.2 billion after tax) from retained earnings to accumulated OCI. Further, pretax unrealized DVA gains of $301 million, $301 million and $420 million were reclassified from other income to accumulated OCI for the third, second and first quarters of 2015, respectively. This had the effect of reducing net income as previously reported for the aforementioned quarters by $187 million, $186 million and $260 million, or approximately $0.02 per share in each quarter. This change is reflected in consolidated results and the   Global Markets   segment results. Results for 2014 were not subject to restatement under the provisions of the new accounting guidance. 

Selected Financial Data 
  Table   1   provides selected consolidated financial data for   2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    Fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis, return on average tangible common shareholders  equity and the efficiency ratio are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For additional information, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  , and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XIII. 

Financial Highlights 
  Net income was   $15.9 billion  , or   $1.31   per diluted share in   2015   compared to   $4.8 billion  , or   $0.36   per diluted share in   2014  . The results for   2015   compared to   2014   were primarily driven by a decrease of $15.2 billion in litigation expense, as well as decreases in all other noninterest expense categories, partially offset by a decline in net interest income on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis, higher provision for credit losses and lower revenue. Included in net interest income on an FTE basis was a charge related to the discount on certain trust preferred securities of   $612 million   in   2015  , as well as a negative market-related adjustment on debt securities of   $296 million   compared to a negative market-related adjustment of $1.1 billion in   2014  . 
  Total assets   increased     $39.8 billion   from   December 31, 2014   to   $2.1 trillion   at   December 31, 2015   primarily driven by an increase in debt securities due to the deployment of deposit inflows, an increase in loans driven by strong demand for commercial loans outpacing consumer loan sales and run-off, and higher cash and cash equivalents from strong deposit inflows. Total liabilities   increased     $27.0 billion   from   December 31, 2014   to   $1.9 trillion   at   December 31, 2015   primarily driven by an increase in deposits, partially offset by declines in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, trading account liabilities and long-term debt. During   2015  , we returned $5.9 billion in capital to shareholders through common and preferred stock dividends and share repurchases. For more information on the balance sheet, see   Executive Summary   Balance Sheet Overview   on page   27  .  
  From a capital management perspective, during   2015  , we maintained our strong capital position with Common equity tier 1 capital of   $163.0 billion  , risk-weighted assets of   $1,602 billion   and a Common equity tier 1 capital ratio of   10.2 percent   at   December 31, 2015   as measured under the Basel 3 Advanced       Transition. On September 3, 2015, we received approval to exit parallel run and begin using the Basel 3 Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2015. The Corporation s transitional supplementary leverage ratio (SLR) was 6.6 percent and 6.2 percent at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , both above the 5.0 percent required minimum. Our Global Excess Liquidity Sources were $504 billion with time-to-required funding at 39 months at   December 31, 2015   compared to $439 billion and 39 months at   December 31, 2014  . For additional information, see   Capital Management   on page   53   and   Liquidity Risk   on page   60  . 

(1)   
    FTE basis is a non-GAAP financial measure. For more information on this measure, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  , and for a corresponding reconciliation to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XIII. 
     Net Interest Income 
  Net interest income on an FTE basis   decreased     $661 million   to   $40.2 billion   in   2015   compared to   2014  . The net interest yield on an FTE basis   decreased     five   bps to   2.20 percent   for   2015  . These   declines   were primarily driven by lower loan yields and consumer loan balances, as well as a charge of   $612 million   in   2015   related to the discount on certain trust preferred securities, partially offset by a $785 million improvement in market-related adjustments on debt securities, lower funding costs, higher trading-related net interest income, lower rates paid on deposits and commercial loan growth. Market-related adjustments on debt securities resulted in an expense of   $296 million   in   2015   compared to an expense of $1.1 billion in   2014  . Negative market-related adjustments on debt securities were primarily due to the acceleration of premium amortization on debt securities as the decline in long-term interest rates shortened the estimated lives of mortgage-related debt securities. Also included in market-related adjustments is hedge ineffectiveness that impacted net interest income. For additional information, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Noninterest Income 

Noninterest income   decreased     $1.0 billion   to   $43.3 billion   for   2015   compared to   2014  . The following highlights the significant changes. 
             
    Investment banking income   decreased     $493 million   driven by lower debt and equity issuance fees, partially offset by higher advisory fees. 
                
    Equity investment income   decreased     $869 million   as   2014   included a gain on the sale of a portion of an equity investment and gains from an initial public offering (IPO) of an equity investment in   Global Markets  . 
                
    Trading account profits   increased     $164 million  . Excluding DVA, trading account profits decreased $330 million driven by declines in credit-related products reflecting lower client activity, partially offset by strong performance in equity derivatives, increased client activity in equities in the Asia-Pacific region, improvement in currencies on higher client flows and increased volatility. For more information on trading account profits, see   Global Markets   on page   40  . 
                
    Mortgage banking income   increased     $801 million   primarily due to lower provision for representations and warranties in   2015   compared to   2014  , and to a lesser extent, improved mortgage servicing rights (MSR) net-of-hedge performance and an increase in core production revenue, partially offset by a decline in servicing fees. 
                
    Other income   decreased     $385 million   primarily due to DVA gains of   $407 million   in 2014 compared to DVA losses of $633 million in 2015, partially offset by higher gains on asset sales and lower U.K. consumer payment protection insurance (PPI) costs in   2015  . For more information on the accounting change related to DVA, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . 

Provision for Credit Losses 

(1)   
    Net charge-offs exclude write-offs in the purchased credit-impaired loan portfolio. 
               (2)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
     The provision for credit losses   increased     $886 million   to   $3.2 billion   for   2015   compared to   2014  . The provision for credit losses was   $1.2 billion   lower than net charge-offs for   2015  , resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses. The provision for credit losses in 2014 included $400 million of additional costs associated with the consumer relief portion of the settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice (DoJ). Excluding these additional costs, the provision for credit losses in the consumer portfolio increased $1.1 billion compared to   2014   due to a slower pace of portfolio improvement than in   2014  , and also due to a lower level of recoveries on nonperforming loan sales and other recoveries in   2015  . The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio   increased     $160 million   in   2015   compared to   2014   driven by energy sector exposure and higher unfunded balances. The decrease in net charge-offs was primarily due to credit quality improvement in the consumer portfolio, partially offset by higher net charge-offs in the commercial portfolio primarily due to lower net recoveries in commercial real estate and higher energy-related net charge-offs. 
  As we look at 2016, reserve releases are expected to decrease from 2015 levels. All else equal, this would result in increased provision expense, assuming sustained stability in underlying asset quality. For more information on the provision for credit losses, see   Provision for Credit Losses   on page   88  . 

Noninterest Expense 

Noninterest expense   decreased     $17.9 billion   to   $57.2 billion   for   2015   compared to   2014  . The following highlights the significant changes. 
             
    Personnel expense   decreased     $919 million   as we continue to streamline processes, reduce headcount and achieve cost savings. 
                
    Occupancy   decreased     $167 million   primarily due to our focus on reducing our rental footprint. 
                
    Professional fees   decreased     $208 million   due to lower default-related servicing expenses and legal fees. 
                
    Telecommunications expense   decreased     $436 million   due to efficiencies gained as we have simplified our operating model, including in-sourcing certain functions. 
                
    Other general operating expense   decreased     $16.0 billion   primarily due to a decrease of $15.2 billion in litigation expense which was primarily related to previously disclosed legacy mortgage-related matters and other litigation charges in   2014  . 

Income Tax Expense 

The effective tax rate for   2015   was driven by our recurring tax preference benefits and tax benefits related to certain non-U.S. restructurings, partially offset by a charge for the impact of the U.K. tax law changes discussed below. The effective tax rate for   2014   was driven by our recurring tax preference benefits, the resolution of several tax examinations and tax benefits from non-U.S. restructurings, partially offset by the non-deductible treatment of certain litigation charges. We expect an effective tax rate in the low 30 percent range, absent unusual items, for 2016. 
  On November 18, 2015, the U.K. Finance (No. 2) Act 2015 (the Act) was enacted, reducing the U.K. corporate income tax rate by two percent to 18 percent. The first one percent reduction will be effective on April 1, 2017 and the second on April 1, 2020. The Act also included a tax surcharge on banking companies of eight percent, effective on January 1, 2016, and provided that existing net operating loss carryforwards may not reduce the additional eight percent income tax liability. Lastly, the Act provided that expenses for certain compensation payments, such as PPI, are not deductible to the extent attributable to July 8, 2015 or later. These provisions resulted in a charge of approximately $290 million in 2015, primarily from remeasuring our U.K. deferred tax assets. 

Balance Sheet Overview 

Assets 
    At   December 31, 2015  , total assets were approximately   $2.1 trillion  ,   up     $39.8 billion   from   December 31, 2014  . The increase in assets was primarily driven by an increase in debt securities due to the deployment of deposit inflows, an increase in loans and leases driven by strong demand for commercial loans outpacing consumer loan sales and run-off, and higher cash and cash equivalents from strong deposit inflows. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in trading account assets due to repositioning activity on the balance sheet, and a decrease in all other assets.  
  The Corporation took certain actions in   2015   to further strengthen liquidity in response to the Basel 3 Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) requirements. Most notably, we exchanged residential mortgage loans supported by long-term standby agreements with Fannie Mae (FNMA) and Freddie Mac (FHLMC) into debt securities guaranteed by FNMA and FHLMC, which further improved liquidity in the asset and liability management (ALM) portfolio. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents   increased     $20.8 billion   primarily due to strong deposit inflows driven by growth in customer and client activity, partially offset by commercial loan growth.  
  Federal Funds Sold and Securities Borrowed or Purchased Under Agreements to Resell 
  Federal funds transactions involve lending reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell are collateralized lending transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads, and obtain securities for settlement and for collateral. Federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell remained relatively unchanged compared to   December 31, 2014  , as an increase in securities borrowed of $3.3 billion was offset by a decrease in reverse repurchase agreements of $2.6 billion. 

Trading Account Assets 
  Trading account assets consist primarily of long positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. government and agency securities, corporate securities and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account assets   decreased     $15.3 billion   primarily due to balance sheet repositioning activity driven by client demand within   Global Markets  .  
  Debt Securities 
  Debt securities primarily include U.S. Treasury and agency securities, mortgage-backed securities (MBS), principally agency MBS, non-U.S. bonds, corporate bonds and municipal debt. We use the debt securities portfolio primarily to manage interest rate and liquidity risk and to take advantage of market conditions that create economically attractive returns on these investments. Debt securities   increased     $26.5 billion   primarily driven by the deployment of deposit inflows and the exchange of certain loans into debt securities. For more information on debt securities, see   Note 3   Securities     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Loans and Leases 
  Loans and leases   increased     $21.6 billion   driven by strong demand for commercial loans, outpacing consumer loan sales and run-off. For more information on the loan portfolio, see   Credit Risk Management   on page   65  . 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
  Allowance for loan and lease losses   decreased     $2.2 billion   primarily due to the impact of improvements in credit quality from the improving economy. For additional information, see   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   88  . 

All Other Assets 
  All other assets   decreased     $16.7 billion   driven by a decrease in other noninterest receivables, loans held-for-sale (LHFS) and derivative assets.  
  Liabilities 
  At   December 31, 2015  , total liabilities were approximately   $1.9 trillion  ,   up     $27.0 billion   from   December 31, 2014  , primarily driven by an increase in deposits, partially offset by declines in securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, trading account liabilities and long-term debt. 
  Deposits 
  Deposits   increased     $78.3 billion   due to an increase in retail deposits.  
  Federal Funds Purchased and Securities Loaned or Sold Under Agreements to Repurchase 
  Federal funds transactions involve borrowing reserve balances on a short-term basis. Securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase are collateralized borrowing transactions utilized to accommodate customer transactions, earn interest rate spreads and finance assets on the balance sheet. Federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase   decreased     $27.0 billion   due to a decrease in repurchase agreements.  
  Trading Account Liabilities 
  Trading account liabilities consist primarily of short positions in equity and fixed-income securities including U.S. Treasury and agency securities, corporate securities, and non-U.S. sovereign debt. Trading account liabilities   decreased     $7.2 billion   primarily due to lower levels of short U.S. Treasury positions due to balance sheet repositioning activity driven by client demand within   Global Markets  . 
  Short-term Borrowings 
  Short-term borrowings provide an additional funding source and primarily consist of Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) short-term borrowings, notes payable and various other borrowings that generally have maturities of one year or less. Short-term  

borrowings   decreased     $3.1 billion   due to planned reductions in FHLB borrowings. For more information on short-term borrowings, see   Note 10   Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Long-term Debt 
  Long-term debt   decreased     $6.4 billion   primarily due to the impact of revaluation of non-U.S. Dollar debt and changes in fair value for debt accounted for under the fair value option. These impacts were substantially offset through derivative hedge transactions. Excluding these two factors, total long-term debt remained relatively unchanged in   2015  . For more information on long-term debt, see   Note 11   Long-term Debt     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  All Other Liabilities 
  All other liabilities   decreased     $7.6 billion   due to a decrease in derivative liabilities.  
  Shareholders  Equity 
  Shareholders  equity   increased     $12.7 billion   driven by earnings and preferred stock issuances, partially offset by returns of capital to shareholders of $5.9 billion through common and preferred stock dividends and share repurchases, as well as a decrease in accumulated OCI due primarily to an increase in unrealized losses on available-for-sale (AFS) debt securities as a result of the increase in interest rates. 
  Cash Flows Overview 
  The Corporation s operating assets and liabilities support our global markets and lending activities. We believe that cash flows from operations, available cash balances and our ability to generate cash through short- and long-term debt are sufficient to fund our operating liquidity needs. Our investing activities primarily include the debt securities portfolio and loans and leases. Our financing activities reflect cash flows primarily related to customer deposits, securities financing agreements and long-term debt. For additional information on liquidity, see   Liquidity Risk   on page   60  . 

(1)   
    The results for 2015 were impacted by the early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . 
               (2)   
    Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on these ratios, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  , and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XIII on page   123  . 
               (3)   
    For more information on the impact of the purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loan portfolio on asset quality, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   66  .  
               (4)   
    Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
               (5)   
    Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   75   and corresponding   Table 35  , and   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   82   and corresponding   Table 44  . 
               (6)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   Consumer Banking  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (7)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $808 million  ,   $810 million   and   $2.3 billion   of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
                (9)   
    Capital ratios reported under Advanced approaches at December 31, 2015. Prior to 2015, we were required to report regulatory capital ratios under the Standardized approach only. For additional information, see   Capital Management   on page   53  . 
     n/a = not applicable 
  n/m = not meaningful 

For footnotes see page   29  . 
      Supplemental Financial Data 
  We view net interest income and related ratios and analyses on an FTE basis, which when presented on a consolidated basis, are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe managing the business with net interest income on an FTE basis provides a more accurate picture of the interest margin for comparative purposes. To derive the FTE basis, net interest income is adjusted to reflect tax-exempt income on an equivalent before-tax basis with a corresponding increase in income tax expense. For purposes of this calculation, we use the federal statutory tax rate of 35 percent. This measure ensures comparability of net interest income arising from taxable and tax-exempt sources. 

Certain performance measures including the efficiency ratio and net interest yield utilize net interest income (and thus total revenue) on an FTE basis. The efficiency ratio measures the costs expended to generate a dollar of revenue, and net interest yield measures the bps we earn over the cost of funds. 
  We also evaluate our business based on certain ratios that utilize tangible equity, a non-GAAP financial measure. Tangible equity represents an adjusted shareholders  equity or common shareholders  equity amount which has been reduced by goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. These measures are used to evaluate our use of equity. In addition, profitability, relationship and investment models use both return on average tangible common shareholders  equity and return on average tangible shareholders  equity as key  

measures to support our overall growth goals. These ratios are as follows: 
             
    Return on average tangible common shareholders  equity measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted common shareholders  equity. The tangible common equity ratio represents adjusted ending common shareholders  equity divided by total assets less goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. 
                
    Return on average tangible shareholders  equity measures our earnings contribution as a percentage of adjusted average total shareholders  equity. The tangible equity ratio represents adjusted ending shareholders  equity divided by total assets less goodwill and intangible assets (excluding MSRs), net of related deferred tax liabilities. 
                
    Tangible book value per common share represents adjusted ending common shareholders  equity divided by ending common shares outstanding. 

The aforementioned supplemental data and performance measures are presented in   Table 8   and Statistical Table X. 
  We evaluate our business segment results based on measures that utilize average allocated capital. Return on average allocated capital is calculated as net income adjusted for cost of funds and earnings credits and certain expenses related to intangibles, divided by average allocated capital. Allocated capital and the related return both represent non-GAAP financial measures. 
  Statistical Tables XIII, XIV and XV on pages   123  ,   124   and   125   provide reconciliations of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation and our segments. Other companies may define or calculate these measures and ratios differently. 

(1)   
    The results for 2015 were impacted by the early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . 
       Net Interest Income Excluding Trading-related Net Interest Income 
  We manage net interest income on an FTE basis and excluding the impact of trading-related activities. We evaluate our sales and trading results and strategies on a total market-based revenue approach by combining net interest income and noninterest income for   Global Markets  .   An analysis of net interest income, average earning assets and net interest yield on earning assets, all of which adjust for the impact of trading-related net interest income from reported net interest income on an FTE basis, is shown below. We believe the use of this non-GAAP presentation in   Table 10   provides additional clarity in assessing our results. 

(1)   
    Represents a non-GAAP financial measure. 

Net interest income excluding trading-related net interest income   decreased     $979 million   to   $36.2 billion   for   2015   compared to   2014  . The   decline   was primarily driven by lower loan yields and consumer loan balances, as well as a charge of   $612 million   in   2015   related to the discount on certain trust preferred securities. This was partially offset by a $785 million improvement in market-related adjustments on debt securities, lower funding costs, lower rates paid on deposits and commercial loan growth. Market-related adjustments on debt securities resulted in an expense of   $296 million   in   2015   compared to an expense of $1.1 billion in   2014  . For more information on market-related and other adjustments, see   Executive Summary   Financial Highlights   on page   24  . For more information on the impact of interest rates, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   on page   97  .  
  Average earning assets excluding trading-related earning assets   increased     $45.5 billion   to   $1,414.7 billion   for   2015   compared to   2014  . The   increase   was primarily in debt securities, commercial loans and cash held at central banks, partially offset by a decline in consumer loans.  
  Net interest yield on earning assets excluding trading-related activities   decreased     16   bps to   2.56 percent   for   2015   compared to   2014   due to the same factors as described above. 

Business Segment Operations 

Segment Description and Basis of Presentation 
  We report our results of operations through the following five business segments:   Consumer Banking  ,   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  ,   Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   Legacy Assets   Servicing (LAS)  , with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  . The primary activities, products and businesses of the business segments and   All Other   are shown below. 
  
    The Corporation periodically reviews capital allocated to its businesses and allocates capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. We utilize a methodology that considers the effect of regulatory capital requirements in addition to internal risk-based capital models. The Corporation s internal risk-based capital models use a risk-adjusted methodology incorporating each segment s credit, market, interest rate, business and operational risk components. For more information on the nature of these risks, see   Managing Risk   on page   49  . The capital allocated to the business segments is referred to as allocated capital, which represents a non-GAAP financial measure. For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the Corporation utilizes allocated equity as a proxy for the carrying value of its reporting units. Allocated equity in the reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit. For additional information, see   Note 8   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

During   2015  , we made refinements to the amount of capital allocated to each of our businesses based on multiple considerations that included, but were not limited to, risk-weighted assets measured under Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches, business segment exposures and risk profile, and strategic plans. As a result of this process, effective January 1, 2015, we adjusted the amount of capital being allocated to our business segments, primarily   LAS  . For more information on Basel 3 risk-weighted assets measured under the Standardized and Advanced approaches, see   Capital Management   on page   53  .  
  For more information on the basis of presentation for business segments, including the allocation of market-related adjustments to net interest income, and reconciliations to consolidated total revenue, net income and year-end total assets, see   Note 24   Business Segment Information     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Consumer Banking 

(1)   
    In segments and businesses where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, we allocate assets from   All Other   to match the segments  and businesses  liabilities and allocated shareholders  equity. As a result, total earning assets and total assets of the businesses may not equal total   Consumer Banking  . 
     n/m = not meaningful 
    Consumer Banking,   which is comprised of Deposits and Consumer Lending,   offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and small businesses  . Our customers and clients   have access to a franchise network that stretches coast to coast through     33     states and the District of Columbia  .   The franchise network includes approximately     4,700     financial centers,     16,000     ATMs, nationwide call centers, and online and mobile platforms  . 
  Consumer Banking Results 
  Net income for   Consumer Banking     increased     $303 million   to   $6.7 billion   in   2015 compared to 2014   primarily driven by lower noninterest expense, lower provision for credit losses and higher noninterest income, partially offset by lower net interest income. Net interest income   decreased     $333 million   to   $19.8 billion   as the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of higher deposits, and higher residential mortgage balances  

were more than offset by the impact of the allocation of ALM activities, higher funding costs, lower card yields and lower average card loan balances. Noninterest income   increased     $142 million   to   $10.8 billion   driven by higher card income and higher mortgage banking income from improved production margins, partially offset by lower service charges. 
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $156 million   to   $2.5 billion   in   2015   driven by continued improvement in credit quality primarily related to our small business and credit card portfolios. Noninterest expense   decreased     $380 million   to   $17.5 billion   primarily driven by lower personnel and operating expenses, partially offset by higher fraud costs in advance of Europay, MasterCard and Visa (EMV) chip implementation. 
  The return on average allocated capital was   23   percent, up from   21   percent, reflecting higher net income and a decrease in allocated capital. For more information on capital allocations, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   32  . 

Deposits 
  Deposits includes the results of consumer deposit activities which consist of a comprehensive range of products provided to consumers and small businesses. Our deposit products   include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts,   as well as   investment accounts and products  . The revenue is allocated to the deposit products using our funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. Deposits generates fees such as account service fees, non-sufficient funds fees, overdraft charges and ATM fees, as well as investment and brokerage fees from Merrill Edge accounts. Merrill Edge is an integrated investing and banking service targeted at customers with less than $250,000 in investable assets. Merrill Edge provides investment advice and guidance, client brokerage asset services, a self-directed online investing platform and key banking capabilities including access to the Corporation s network of financial centers and ATMs. 
  Deposits includes the net impact of migrating customers and their related deposit and brokerage asset balances between Deposits and   GWIM   as well as other client-managed businesses. For more information on the migration of customer balances to or from   GWIM  , see   GWIM   on page   36  . 
  Net income for Deposits   increased     $270 million   to   $2.7 billion   in   2015   driven by higher net interest income, and lower noninterest expense and provision for credit losses. Net interest income   increased     $188 million   to   $9.6 billion   primarily due to the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of higher deposits, partially offset by the impact of the allocation of ALM activities. Noninterest income of   $4.6 billion   remained relatively unchanged. 
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $69 million   to   $199 million   driven by continued improvement in credit quality. Noninterest expense   decreased     $113 million   to   $9.8 billion   due to lower operating expenses. 
  Average deposits   increased     $32.8 billion   to   $544.7 billion   in   2015   driven by a continuing customer shift to more liquid products in the low rate environment. Growth in checking, traditional savings and money market savings of $43.5 billion was partially offset by a decline in time deposits of $10.7 billion. As a result of our continued pricing discipline and the shift in the mix of deposits, the rate paid on average deposits declined by one bp to five bps. 

Client brokerage assets   increased     $9.0 billion   in   2015   driven by strong account flows, partially offset by lower market valuations. Mobile banking active users   increased     2.2 million   reflecting  

continuing changes in our customers  banking preferences. The number of financial centers   declined     129   driven by changes in customer preferences to self-service options and as we continue to optimize our consumer banking network and improve our cost-to-serve. 
  Consumer Lending 
  Consumer Lending offers products to   consumers and small businesses   across the U.S. The products offered include   credit and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans   such as automotive, marine, aircraft, recreational vehicle and consumer personal loans. In addition to earning net interest spread revenue on its lending activities, Consumer Lending generates interchange revenue from credit and debit card transactions, late fees, cash advance fees, annual credit card fees, mortgage banking fee income and other miscellaneous fees. Consumer Lending products are available to our customers through our retail network, direct telephone, and online and mobile channels. 
  Consumer Lending includes the net impact of migrating customers and their related loan balances between Consumer Lending and   GWIM  . For more information on the migration of customer balances to or from   GWIM  , see   GWIM   on page   36  . 
  Net income for Consumer Lending remained relatively unchanged at   $4.1 billion   in   2015   as lower noninterest expense, higher noninterest income and lower provision for credit losses largely offset the decline in net interest income. Net interest income   decreased     $521 million   to   $10.2 billion   driven by higher funding costs, lower card yields and average card loan balances, and the impact of the allocation of ALM activities, partially offset by higher residential mortgage balances. Noninterest income   increased     $136 million   to   $6.2 billion   due to higher card income as well as mortgage banking income from improved production margins. 
  The provision for credit losses   decreased     $87 million   to   $2.3 billion   in   2015   driven by continued credit quality improvement within the small business and credit card portfolios. Noninterest expense   decreased     $267 million   to   $7.7 billion   primarily driven by lower personnel expense, partially offset by higher fraud costs in advance of EMV chip implementation. 
  Average loans   increased     $7.8 billion   to   $198.9 billion   in   2015   primarily driven by increases in residential mortgages and consumer vehicle loans, partially offset by lower home equity loans and continued run-off of non-core portfolios. Beginning with new originations in 2014, we retain certain residential mortgages in   Consumer Banking  , consistent with where the overall relationship is managed; previously such mortgages were in   All Other  . 

(1)   
    In addition to the U.S. credit card portfolio in   Consumer Banking  , the remaining U.S. credit card portfolio is in   GWIM  . 

During   2015  , the total U.S. credit card risk-adjusted margin   decreased     11   bps due to a decrease in net interest margin and the net impact of gains on asset sales, partially offset by an improvement in credit quality in the U.S. Card portfolio. Total U.S. credit card purchase volumes   increased     $9.3 billion   to   $221.4 billion   and debit card purchase volumes   increased     $5.1 billion   to   $277.7 billion  , reflecting higher levels of consumer spending. 
  Mortgage Banking Income 
  Mortgage banking income is earned primarily in   Consumer Banking   and   LAS  . Mortgage banking income in Consumer Lending consists mainly of core production income, which is comprised primarily of revenue from the fair value gains and losses recognized on our interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and LHFS, the related secondary market execution, and costs related to representations and warranties in the sales transactions along with other obligations incurred in the sales of mortgage loans. 
  The table below summarizes the components of mortgage banking income. 

(1)   
    Primarily intercompany charges for loan servicing activities provided by   LAS  . 
               (2)   
    Amounts for   LAS   are included in this   Consumer Banking   table to show the components of consolidated mortgage banking income. 
               (3)   
    Includes the effect of transfers of mortgage loans from   Consumer Banking   to the ALM portfolio included in   All Other,   intercompany charges for loan servicing and net gains or losses on intercompany trades related to mortgage servicing rights risk management. 
     Core production revenue   increased     $67 million   to   $942 million   in   2015   primarily due to an increase in margins.  

(1)   
    The above loan production amounts represent the unpaid principal balance of loans and in the case of home equity, the principal amount of the total line of credit. 
               (2)   
    In addition to loan production in   Consumer Banking  , there is also first mortgage and home equity loan production in   GWIM. 
     First mortgage loan originations in   Consumer Banking   and for the total Corporation increased in   2015   compared to   2014   reflecting growth in the overall mortgage market as lower interest rates beginning in late 2014 drove an increase in refinances. 
  During   2015  , 63 percent of the total Corporation first mortgage production volume was for refinance originations and 37 percent was for purchase originations compared to 60 percent and 40 percent in   2014  . Home Affordable Refinance Program (HARP) originations were two percent of all refinance originations compared to six percent in   2014  . Making Home Affordable non-HARP originations were eight percent of all refinance originations compared to 17 percent in   2014  . The remaining 90 percent of refinance originations were conventional refinances compared to 77 percent in   2014  . 
  Home equity production for the total Corporation was   $13.1 billion   for   2015   compared to   $11.2 billion   for   2014  , with the   increase   due to a higher demand in the market based on improving housing trends, and increased market share driven by improved financial center engagement with customers and more competitive pricing. 

Global Wealth   Investment Management   

  n/m = not meaningful 
    GWIM   consists of two primary businesses: Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management (MLGWM) and     U.S. Trust, Bank of America Private Wealth Management (U.S. Trust). 
  MLGWM s advisory business   provides a high-touch client experience through a network of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets  . MLGWM provides   tailored solutions to meet   our   clients  needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking and retirement products.    
  U.S. Trust, together with MLGWM s Private Banking   Investments Group,   provides comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients  wealth structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs, including specialty asset management services.    
  Client assets managed under advisory and/or discretion of   GWIM   are assets under management (AUM) and are typically held in diversified portfolios. The majority of client AUM have an investment strategy with a duration of greater than one year and are, therefore, considered long-term AUM. Fees earned on long-term AUM are calculated as a percentage of total AUM. The asset management fees charged to clients are dependent on various factors, but are generally driven by the breadth of the client s relationship and generally range from 50 to 150 bps on their total AUM. The net client long-term AUM flows represent the net change in clients  long-term AUM balances over a specified period of time,  

excluding market appreciation/depreciation and other adjustments. 
  Client assets under advisory and discretion of   GWIM   in which the investment strategy seeks current income, while maintaining liquidity and capital preservation, are considered liquidity AUM. The duration of these strategies is primarily less than one year. The change in AUM balances from the prior year is primarily the net client flows for liquidity AUM.  
  Net income for   GWIM     decreased     $360 million   to   $2.6 billion   in   2015 compared to 2014   driven by a   decrease   in revenue and increases in noninterest expense and the provision for credit losses.  
  Net interest income   decreased     $337 million   to   $5.5 billion   due to the impact of the allocation of ALM activities, partially offset by the impact of loan and deposit growth. Noninterest income, which primarily includes investment and brokerage services income,   decreased     $66 million   to   $12.5 billion   driven by lower transactional revenue, partially offset by increased asset management fees due to the impact of long-term AUM flows and higher average market levels. Noninterest expense   increased     $189 million   to   $13.8 billion   primarily due to higher amortization of previously issued stock awards and investments in client-facing professionals, partially offset by lower revenue-related incentives.  
  Return on average allocated capital was   22   percent,   down   from   25   percent due to a decrease in net income. 

(1)   
    Includes the results of BofA Global Capital Management, the cash management division of Bank of America, and certain administrative items. 
               (2)     
    Includes margin receivables which are classified in customer and other receivables on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
                (4)     
    Financial advisor productivity is defined as Merrill Lynch Global Wealth Management total revenue, excluding the allocation of certain ALM activities, divided by the total number of financial advisors (excluding financial advisors in the   Consumer Banking   segment). 
       Client balances   decreased     $41.2 billion  , or   two percent  , to nearly   $2.5 trillion   driven by market declines, partially offset by client balance flows. 
  The number of wealth advisors   increased     five percent  , due to continued investment in the advisor development programs, improved competitive recruiting and near historically low advisor attrition levels. 
  In   2015  , revenue from MLGWM of   $14.9 billion   and U.S. Trust of   $3.0 billion   were each   down     two percent   primarily driven by lower net interest income due to the impact of the allocation of ALM activities. Additionally, noninterest income was down in MLGWM driven by lower transactional revenue, partially offset by the impact of long-term AUM flows. 

Net Migration Summary 
  GWIM   results are impacted by the net migration of clients and their corresponding deposit, loan and brokerage balances primarily to or from   Consumer Banking,   as presented in the table below. Migrations result from the movement of clients between business segments to better align with client needs.  

(1)   
    Migration occurs primarily between   GWIM   and   Consumer Banking  .  

Global Banking 

Global Banking  , which includes Global Corporate Banking, Global Commercial Banking, Business Banking and Global Investment Banking,   provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions to clients, and underwriting and advisory services through   our   network of offices and client relationship teams  . Our   lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending and asset-based lending  . Our   treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options  . We also provide investment banking products to our clients such as   debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services  . Underwriting debt and equity issuances, fixed-income and equity research, and certain market-based activities are executed through our global broker-dealer affiliates which are our primary dealers in several countries. Within   Global Banking,   Global Commercial Banking clients   generally include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms, auto dealerships   and   not-for-profit companies  . Global Corporate Banking clients generally include   large global corporations, financial institutions   and   leasing clients  . Business Banking clients include   mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized and integrated financial advice and solutions  . 

Net income for   Global Banking     decreased     $496 million   to   $5.3 billion   in   2015   compared to   2014   primarily driven by   lower   revenue and   higher   provision for credit losses, partially offset by   lower   noninterest expense. 
  Revenue   decreased     $688 million   to   $16.9 billion   in   2015   primarily due to   lower   net interest income. The decline in net interest income reflects the impact of the allocation of ALM activities, including liquidity costs as well as loan spread compression, partially offset by loan growth. Noninterest income of   $7.7 billion   remained relatively unchanged in   2015  . 
  The provision for credit losses   increased     $363 million   to   $685 million   in   2015   primarily driven by energy exposure and loan growth. For additional information, see   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Industry Concentrations   on page   83  . Noninterest expense   decreased     $282 million   to   $7.9 billion   in   2015   primarily due to lower litigation expense and technology initiative costs. 
  The return on average allocated capital was   15 percent   in   2015  ,   down   from   17 percent   in   2014  , due to   increased   capital allocations and   lower   net income. For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   32  . 

Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking  
  Global Corporate, Global Commercial and Business Banking each include Business Lending and Global Transaction Services activities. Business Lending includes various lending-related products and services, and related hedging activities, including  

commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending and asset-based lending. Global Transaction Services includes deposits, treasury management, credit card, foreign exchange and short-term investment products. 
  The table below presents a summary of the results, which exclude certain capital markets activity in   Global Banking  . 

Business Lending revenue of   $7.6 billion   remained relatively unchanged in   2015   compared to   2014   as loan spread compression was offset by the benefit of loan growth. 
  Global Transaction Services revenue   decreased     $424 million   in   2015   primarily due to lower net interest income as a result of the impact of the allocation of ALM activities, including liquidity costs. 
  Average loans and leases   increased     seven percent   in   2015   compared to   2014   due to strong origination volumes and increased revolver utilization. Average deposits remained relatively unchanged in   2015  . 
  Global Investment Banking 
  Client teams and product specialists underwrite and distribute debt, equity and loan products, and provide advisory services and tailored risk management solutions. The economics of most investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between   Global Banking   and   Global Markets   based on the activities performed by each segment. To provide a complete discussion of our consolidated investment banking fees, the following table presents total Corporation investment banking fees and the portion attributable to   Global Banking. 

Total Corporation investment banking fees of   $5.6 billion  , excluding self-led deals, included within   Global Banking   and   Global Markets,   decreased     eight percent   in   2015   compared to   2014   driven by lower debt and equity issuance fees, partially offset by higher advisory fees. Underwriting fees for debt products declined primarily as a result of lower debt issuance volumes mainly in leveraged finance transactions. 

Global Markets 

(1)   
    Trading-related assets include derivative assets, which are considered non-earning assets. 
       Global Markets     offers sales and trading services, including research, to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses  .   Global Markets     product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets  .   Global Markets     provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to   our   institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities.   We also work with our   commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products  . As a result of our market-making activities in these products, we   may be required to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities  , syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and asset-backed securities (ABS). The   economics of most investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between     Global Markets   and   Global Banking     based on the activities performed by each segment  .   Global Banking   originates certain deal-related  

transactions with our corporate and commercial clients that are executed and distributed by   Global Markets  . For information on investment banking fees on a consolidated basis, see page   39  . 
  Retrospective to January 1, 2015, we early adopted new accounting guidance that requires the Corporation to present unrealized DVA gains and losses on certain liabilities accounted for under the fair value option in accumulated OCI. This change, which is reflected entirely in   Global Markets  , resulted in a reclassification of pretax unrealized DVA gains of $1.0 billion from other income to accumulated OCI for 2015. Results for 2014 were not subject to restatement under the provisions of the new accounting guidance. Net DVA on derivatives is still reported in   Global Markets   segment results. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . In   2014  , we implemented a funding valuation adjustment (FVA) into our valuation estimates primarily to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where we are not permitted to use the collateral we receive. This change in estimate resulted in a net FVA pretax charge of   $497 million   in 2014, which is included in net DVA. 

Net income for   Global Markets     decreased     $209 million   to   $2.5 billion   in   2015 compared to 2014  . Excluding net DVA, net income   increased     $128 million   to   $3.0 billion   in   2015 compared to 2014  , primarily driven by lower noninterest expense and lower tax expense, partially offset by lower revenue. Revenue, excluding net DVA, decreased due to lower trading account profits due to declines in credit-related businesses, lower investment banking fees and lower equity investment gains (not included in sales and trading revenue) as 2014 included gains related to the IPO of an equity investment, partially offset by an increase in net interest income. Net DVA   losses   were   $786 million   compared to   losses   of   $240 million   in   2014  . Sales and trading revenue, excluding net DVA,   decreased     $142 million   due to lower fixed-income, currencies and commodities (FICC) revenue, partially offset by increased Equities revenue. Noninterest expense   decreased     $552 million   to   $11.3 billion   largely due to lower litigation expense and, to a lesser extent, lower revenue-related incentive compensation and support costs. The effective tax rate for   2014   reflected the impact of non-deductible litigation expense. 
  Average earning assets   decreased     $27.8 billion   to   $433.4 billion   in   2015   largely driven by a decrease in reverse repurchases, securities borrowed and trading securities primarily due to a reduction in client financing activity and continuing balance sheet optimization efforts across   Global Markets  . 
  Year-end loans and leases   increased     $13.8 billion   in   2015   primarily due to growth in mortgage and securitization finance. 
  The return on average allocated capital was   seven percent  ,   down   from   eight percent  , reflecting a decrease in net income and an increase in allocated capital. 
  Sales and Trading Revenue 
  Sales and trading revenue includes unrealized and realized gains and losses on trading and other assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Sales and trading revenue is segregated into fixed-income (government debt obligations, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt obligations, commercial MBS, RMBS, collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), interest rate and credit derivative contracts),  

currencies (interest rate and foreign exchange contracts), commodities (primarily futures, forwards, swaps and options) and equities (equity-linked derivatives and cash equity activity). The following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue, substantially all of which is in   Global Markets,   with the remainder in   Global Banking  . In addition, the following table and related discussion present sales and trading revenue excluding the impact of net DVA, which is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe the use of this non-GAAP financial measure provides clarity in assessing the underlying performance of these businesses. 

FICC revenue, excluding net DVA,   decreased     $374 million   to   $8.7 billion   primarily driven by declines in credit-related businesses due to lower client activity, partially offset by stronger results in rates, currencies and commodities products. Equities revenue, excluding net DVA,   increased     $232 million   to   $4.4 billion   primarily driven by strong performance in derivatives and increased client activity in the Asia-Pacific region. 

Legacy Assets   Servicing 

LAS   is responsible for our   mortgage servicing activities related to residential first mortgage and home equity loans serviced for others and loans held by the Corporation, including loans that have been designated as the     LAS   Portfolios. The   LAS   Portfolios (both owned and serviced), herein referred to as the Legacy Owned and Legacy Serviced Portfolios, respectively (together, the Legacy Portfolios), and as further defined below, include those loans originated prior to January 1, 2011 that would not have been originated under our established underwriting standards as of December 31, 2010. For more information on our   Legacy Portfolios  , see page   43  . In addition,   LAS   is responsible for managing   certain legacy exposures related to mortgage origination, sales and servicing activities (e.g., litigation, representations and warranties).     LAS   also includes the financial results of the home equity portfolio selected as part of the Legacy Owned Portfolio and   the results of MSR activities, including net hedge results  . 
  LAS   includes certain revenues and expenses on loans serviced for others, including owned loans serviced for   Consumer Banking  ,   GWIM   and   All Other  .  
  The   net loss   for   LAS     decreased     $12.4 billion   to   $740 million   for   2015   compared to   2014   primarily driven by significantly lower litigation expense, which is included in noninterest expense. Also contributing to the decrease in the net loss was higher revenue, primarily mortgage banking income, partially offset by   higher   provision for credit losses. Mortgage banking income   increased     $613 million   primarily due to a lower representations and warranties provision compared to   2014   and improved MSR net-of-hedge performance, partially offset by lower servicing fees due to a smaller servicing portfolio. The provision for credit losses   increased     $17 million   as the portfolio begins to stabilize. Also, the provision for credit losses in 2014 included $400 million of  

additional costs associated with the consumer relief portion of the settlement with the DoJ. Noninterest expense   decreased     $16.2 billion   primarily due to a $14.4 billion decrease in litigation expense. Excluding litigation, noninterest expense decreased $1.8 billion to $3.6 billion due to lower default-related staffing and other default-related servicing expenses.  
  The increase in allocated capital for   LAS   reflects higher Basel 3 Advanced approaches operational risk capital than in   2014  . For more information on capital allocated to the business segments, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   32  .  
  Servicing 
  LAS   is responsible for all of our in-house servicing activities related to the residential mortgage and home equity loan portfolios, including owned loans and loans serviced for others (collectively, the mortgage serviced portfolio). A portion of this portfolio has been designated as the Legacy Serviced Portfolio, which represented 25 percent, 26 percent and 30 percent of the total mortgage serviced portfolio, as measured by unpaid principal balance, at   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. In addition,   LAS   is responsible for contracting with and overseeing subservicing vendors who service loans on our behalf. 
  Servicing activities include collecting cash for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers, disbursing customer draws for lines of credit, accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors and escrow payments to third parties, and responding to customer inquiries. Our home retention efforts, including single point of contact resources, are also part of our servicing activities, along with supervision of foreclosures and property dispositions. Prior to foreclosure,   LAS   evaluates various workout options in an effort to help our customers avoid foreclosure.  

Legacy Portfolios 
  The Legacy Portfolios (both owned and serviced) include those loans originated prior to January 1, 2011 that would not have been originated under our established underwriting standards in place as of December 31, 2010. The purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loan portfolio, as well as certain loans that met a pre-defined delinquency status or probability of default threshold as of January 1, 2011, are also included in the Legacy Portfolios. Since determining the pool of loans to be included in the Legacy Portfolios as of January 1, 2011, the criteria have not changed for these portfolios, but will continue to be evaluated over time. 
  Legacy Owned Portfolio 
  The Legacy Owned Portfolio includes those loans that met the criteria as described above and are on the balance sheet of the Corporation.   Home equity loans in this portfolio are held on the balance sheet of     LAS  ,   and residential mortgage loans in this portfolio are included as part of     All Other  .   The financial results of the on-balance sheet loans are reported in the segment that owns the loans or in     All Other  . Total loans in the Legacy Owned Portfolio   decreased     $18.3 billion   in   2015   to   $71.6 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , of which   $26.5 billion   was held on the   LAS   balance sheet and the remainder was included in   All Other  . The decrease was largely due to payoffs and paydowns, as well as loan sales. 
  Legacy Serviced Portfolio 
  The Legacy Serviced Portfolio includes loans serviced by   LAS   in both the Legacy Owned Portfolio and those loans serviced for outside investors that met the criteria as described above. The table below summarizes the balances of the residential mortgage loans included in the Legacy Serviced Portfolio (the Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio) representing 24 percent, 24 percent and 28 percent of the total residential mortgage serviced portfolio of $491 billion, $609 billion and $719 billion, as measured by unpaid principal balance, at   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The decline in the Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio was due to paydowns and payoffs, and MSR and loan sales. 

Non-Legacy Portfolio 
  As previously discussed,   LAS   is responsible for all of our servicing activities. The table below summarizes the balances of the residential mortgage loans that are not included in the Legacy Serviced Portfolio (the Non-Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio) representing 76 percent, 76 percent and 72 percent of the total residential mortgage serviced portfolio, as measured by unpaid principal balance, at   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The decline in the Non-Legacy Residential Mortgage Serviced Portfolio was primarily due to paydowns and payoffs, partially offset by new originations. 

LAS   Mortgage Banking Income 
  LAS   mortgage banking income includes income earned in connection with servicing activities and MSR valuation adjustments, net of results from risk management activities used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs. The costs associated with our servicing activities are included in noninterest expense.   LAS   mortgage banking income also includes the cost of legacy representations and warranties exposures and revenue from the sales of loans that had returned to performing status. The table below summarizes   LAS   mortgage banking income. 

(1)   
    Represents the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows. 
               (2)   
    Includes gains (losses) on sales of MSRs. 
               (3)   
    Consists primarily of revenue from sales of repurchased loans that had returned to performing status. 
     In   2015  ,   LAS   mortgage banking income   increased     $613 million   to   $1.7 billion   primarily driven by a lower representations and warranties provision and improved MSR net-of-hedge performance, partially offset by lower servicing fees due to a smaller servicing portfolio. Servicing fees   declined     22 percent   to   $1.5 billion   in   2015   as the size of the servicing portfolio continued to decline driven by loan prepayment activity, which exceeded new  

originations, as well as strategic sales of MSRs in   2014  . The   $28 million   benefit in the provision for representations and warranties for   2015   compared to a provision of   $693 million   in   2014   was primarily driven by the impact of the   ACE Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products, Inc.   (ACE) decision, as time-barred claims are now treated as resolved. For more information on the ACE decision, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   46  .  

(1)   
    The servicing portfolio and mortgage loans serviced for investors represent the unpaid principal balance of loans. At both   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the balance excludes   $16 billion   of non-U.S. consumer mortgage loans serviced for investors. 
               (2)   
    Servicing of residential mortgage loans, HELOCs and home equity loans by   LAS  . 
      Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the balance of consumer MSRs managed within   LAS  , which excludes   $407 million   of certain non-U.S. residential mortgage MSRs recorded in   Global Markets,   was   $2.7 billion   compared to   $3.3 billion   at   December 31, 2014  . The decrease was primarily driven by the recognition of modeled cash flows and sales of MSRs, partially offset by new loan originations. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

All Other 

n/m = not meaningful 
    All Other   consists of ALM activities  ,   equity investments, the international consumer card business, liquidating businesses, residual expense allocations and other. ALM activities encompass certain residential mortgages, debt securities, interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities including the residual net interest income allocation, the impact of certain allocation methodologies and accounting hedge ineffectiveness  . The results of certain ALM activities are allocated to our business segments. Beginning with new originations in 2014, we retain certain residential mortgages in   Consumer Banking  , consistent with where the overall relationship is managed; previously such mortgages were in   All Other  . Additionally,   certain residential mortgage loans that are managed by     LAS   are held in   All Other  . For more information on our ALM activities, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   on page   97   and   Note 24   Business Segment Information     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .   Equity investments include our merchant services joint venture as well as Global Principal Investments (GPI) which is comprised of a portfolio of equity, real estate and other alternative investments. For more information on our merchant services joint venture, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Net income for   All Other     decreased     $553 million   to a loss of   $489 million   in   2015   primarily due to a decrease in equity investment income, a decrease in the benefit in the provision for credit losses and lower gains on sales of debt securities, partially offset by higher net interest income, an increase in gains on sales of consumer real estate loans, lower U.K. PPI costs and a decrease in noninterest expense. 
  Net interest income   increased     $178 million   primarily driven by a lower impact from negative market-related adjustments on debt securities, partially offset by a $612 million charge in 2015 related to the discount on certain trust preferred securities. Negative market-related adjustments on debt securities were $296 million compared to $1.1 billion in 2014. Equity investment income   decreased     $727 million   as the prior year included a gain on the sale of a portion of an equity investment. Gains on the sales of loans, including nonperforming and other delinquent loans, net of hedges, were $1.0 billion compared to gains of $672 million in 2014. Also included in all other loss were U.K. PPI costs of $319 million compared to $621 million, and negative FTE adjustments of $1.6 billion compared to $1.3 billion to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in   Global Banking. 

The benefit in the provision for credit losses decreased   $636 million   to a benefit of   $342 million   in   2015   primarily driven by lower recoveries, including those recorded in connection with residential mortgage loan sales. 
  Noninterest expense   decreased     $718 million   to   $2.2 billion   reflecting a decrease in litigation expense and lower personnel, infrastructure and support costs, partially offset by higher professional fees related in part to our CCAR resubmission.  
  The income tax   benefit   was   $2.0 billion   on a pretax loss of   $2.5 billion   in   2015   compared to a benefit of   $2.6 billion   on a pretax loss of   $2.5 billion   in   2014  , as 2014 included tax benefits attributable to the resolution of several tax examinations, and 2015 included the charge of approximately $290 million related to the U.K tax law change. In addition, both periods include income tax benefit adjustments to eliminate the FTE treatment of certain tax credits recorded in   Global Banking  . 
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 
  We have contractual obligations to make future payments on debt and lease agreements. Additionally, in the normal course of business, we enter into contractual arrangements whereby we commit to future purchases of products or services from unaffiliated parties. Purchase obligations are defined as obligations that are legally binding agreements whereby we agree to purchase products or services with a specific minimum quantity  

at a fixed, minimum or variable price over a specified period of time. Included in purchase obligations are vendor contracts, the most significant of which include communication services, processing services and software contracts. Other long-term liabilities include our contractual funding obligations related to the Qualified Pension Plans, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans (collectively, the Plans). Obligations to the Plans are based on the current and projected obligations of the Plans, performance of the Plans  assets and any participant contributions, if applicable. During   2015   and   2014  , we contributed   $234 million   each year to the Plans, and we expect to make   $261 million   of contributions during   2016  . The Plans are more fully discussed in   Note 17   Employee Benefit Plans     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Debt, lease, equity and other obligations are more fully discussed in   Note 11   Long-term Debt   and   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  
  We enter into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of our customers. For a summary of the total unfunded, or off-balance sheet, credit extension commitment amounts by expiration date, see Credit Extension Commitments in   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Table 11   includes certain contractual obligations at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    Represents forecasted net interest expense on long-term debt and time deposits based on interest rates at   December 31, 2015  . Forecasts are based on the contractual maturity dates of each liability, and are net of derivative hedges, where applicable. 
       Representations and Warranties 
  We securitize first-lien residential mortgage loans generally in the form of RMBS guaranteed by the government-sponsored enterprises (GSEs), which include FHLMC and FNMA, or by the Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) in the case of Federal Housing Administration (FHA)-insured, U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed and Rural Housing Service-guaranteed mortgage loans, and sell pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans in the form of whole loans. In addition, in prior years, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations (in certain of these securitizations, monoline insurers or other financial guarantee providers insured all or some of the securities) or in the form of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, we or certain of our  

subsidiaries or legacy companies made various representations and warranties. Breaches of these representations and warranties have resulted in and may continue to result in the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans or to otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to the GSEs, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development with respect to FHA-insured loans, VA, whole-loan investors, securitization trusts, monoline insurers or other financial guarantors as applicable (collectively, repurchases). In all such cases, subsequent to repurchasing the loan, we would be exposed to any credit loss on the repurchased mortgage loans after accounting for any mortgage insurance (MI) or mortgage guarantee payments that we may receive. 
  We have vigorously contested any request for repurchase where we have concluded that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist and will continue to do so in the future. However, in an effort to  

resolve legacy mortgage-related issues, we have reached settlements, certain of which have been for significant amounts, in lieu of a loan-by-loan review process, including with the GSEs, four monoline insurers and BNY Mellon, as trustee for certain securitization trusts. 
  For more information on accounting for representations and warranties, repurchase claims and exposures, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees   and   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K  . 
  Settlement with the Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee 
  On April 22, 2015, the New York County Supreme Court entered final judgment approving the BNY Mellon Settlement. In October 2015, BNY Mellon obtained certain state tax opinions and an IRS private letter ruling confirming that the settlement will not impact the real estate mortgage investment conduit tax status of the trusts. The final conditions of the settlement have been satisfied and, accordingly, the Corporation made the settlement payment to BNY Mellon of   $8.5 billion   in February 2016. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, allocation and distribution of the   $8.5 billion   settlement payment is the responsibility of the RMBS trustee, BNY Mellon. On February 5, 2016, BNY Mellon filed an Article 77 proceeding in the New York County Supreme Court asking the court for instruction with respect to certain issues concerning the distribution of each trust s allocable share of the settlement payment and asking that the settlement payment be ordered to be held in escrow pending the outcome of this Article 77 proceeding. The Corporation is not a party to this proceeding. 
  New York Court Decision on Statute of Limitations 
  On June 11, 2015, the New York Court of Appeals, New York s highest appellate court, issued its opinion on the statute of limitations applicable to representations and warranties claims in   ACE Securities Corp. v. DB Structured Products, Inc.   (ACE). The Court of Appeals held that, under New York law, a claim for breach of contractual representations and warranties begins to run at the time the representations and warranties are made, and rejected the argument that the six-year statute of limitations does not begin to run until the time repurchase is refused. The Court of Appeals also held that compliance with the contractual notice and cure period was a pre-condition to filing suit, and claims that did not comply with such contractual requirements prior to the expiration of the statute of limitations period were invalid. While no entity affiliated with the Corporation was a party to this litigation, the vast majority of the private-label RMBS trusts into which entities affiliated with the Corporation sold loans and made representations and warranties are governed by New York law. While the Corporation treats claims where the statute of limitations has expired, as determined in accordance with the ACE decision, as time-barred and therefore resolved and no longer outstanding, investors or trustees have sought to distinguish certain aspects of the ACE decision or to assert other claims against RMBS counterparties seeking to avoid or circumvent the impact of the ACE decision. For example, a recent ruling by a New York intermediate appellate court allowed a counterparty to pursue litigation on loans in the entire trust even though only some of the loans complied with the condition precedent of timely pre-suit notice and opportunity to cure or repurchase. The potential impact on the Corporation, if any, of judicial limitations on the ACE decision,  

or claims seeking to distinguish or avoid the ACE decision is unclear at this time. For additional information, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Unresolved Repurchase Claims 
  Unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by counterparties, typically the outstanding principal balance or the unpaid principal balance at the time of default. In the case of first-lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly greater than the expected loss amount due to the benefit of collateral and, in some cases, MI or mortgage guarantee payments. Claims received from a counterparty remain outstanding until the underlying loan is repurchased, the claim is rescinded by the counterparty, we determine that the applicable statute of limitations has expired, or representations and warranties claims with respect to the applicable trust are settled, and fully and finally released. When a claim is denied and we do not receive a response from the counterparty, the claim remains in the unresolved repurchase claims balance until resolution in one of the ways described above. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , we had   $18.4 billion   of unresolved repurchase claims, net of duplicate claims, compared to   $22.8 billion   at   December 31, 2014  . These repurchase claims primarily relate to private-label securitizations and exclude claims in the amount of   $7.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015   where the statute of limitations has expired without litigation being commenced. At   December 31, 2014  , time-barred claims of   $5.2 billion   were included in unresolved repurchase claims. The notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims at both   December 31, 2015 and 2014   includes   $3.5 billion   of claims related to loans in specific private-label securitization groups or tranches where we own substantially all of the outstanding securities. For additional information, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  The overall decrease in the notional amount of outstanding unresolved repurchase claims in   2015   is primarily due to the impact of time-barred claims under the ACE decision, partially offset by new claims from private-label securitization trustees. Outstanding repurchase claims remain unresolved primarily due to (1) the level of detail, support and analysis accompanying such claims, which impact overall claim quality and, therefore, claims resolution and (2) the lack of an established process to resolve disputes related to these claims. 
  As a result of various bulk settlements with the GSEs, we have resolved substantially all outstanding and potential representations and warranties repurchase claims on whole loans sold by legacy Bank of America and Countrywide Financial Corporation (Countrywide) to FNMA and FHLMC through June 30, 2012 and December 31, 2009, respectively. At   December 31, 2015  , the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims submitted by the GSEs was   $14 million   for loans originated prior to 2009. For more information on the monolines and experience with the GSEs, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  During   2015   and   2014  , we had limited loan-level representations and warranties repurchase claims experience with the monoline insurers due to bulk settlements in prior years and ongoing litigation with a single monoline insurer. For additional  

information, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  In addition to unresolved repurchase claims, we have received notifications from sponsors of third-party securitizations with whom we engaged in whole-loan transactions indicating that we may have indemnity obligations with respect to loans for which we have not received a repurchase request. These outstanding notifications totaled   $1.4 billion   and   $2.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 
  We also from time to time receive correspondence purporting to raise representations and warranties breach issues from entities that do not have contractual standing or ability to bring such claims. We believe such communications to be procedurally and/or substantively invalid, and generally do not respond. 
  The presence of repurchase claims on a given trust, receipt of notices of indemnification obligations and receipt of other communications, as discussed above, are all factors that inform our liability for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss. 
  Representations and Warranties Liability 
  The liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related provision is included in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. For more information on the representations and warranties liability and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Estimated Range of Possible Loss   on page   49   and   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the liability for representations and warranties was   $11.3 billion   and   $12.1 billion  , which included   $8.5 billion   related to the BNY Mellon Settlement. The representations and warranties benefit was   $39 million   for   2015   compared to a provision of   $683 million   for   2014  . The benefit in the provision for representations and warranties for   2015   compared to a provision in   2014   was primarily driven by the impact of the ACE decision. 
  Our liability for representations and warranties is necessarily dependent on, and limited by, a number of factors including for private-label securitizations the implied repurchase experience based on the BNY Mellon Settlement, as well as certain other assumptions and judgmental factors. Where relevant, we also consider more recent experience, such as claim activity, notification of potential indemnification obligations, our experience with various counterparties, the ACE decision, other recent court decisions related to the statute of limitations, and other facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements, as we believe appropriate. Accordingly, future provisions associated with obligations under representations and warranties may be materially impacted if future experiences are different from historical experience or our understandings, interpretations or assumptions. 

Experience with Investors Other than Government-sponsored Enterprises 
  Prior to 2009, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations or in the form of whole loans to investors other than the GSEs (although the GSEs are investors in certain private-label securitizations). The majority of the loans sold were included in private-label securitizations, including third-party sponsored transactions. We provided representations and warranties to the whole-loan investors and these investors may retain those rights even when the whole loans were aggregated with other collateral into private-label securitizations sponsored by the whole-loan investors. Such loans originated from   2004   through   2008   had an original principal balance of   $970 billion  , including   $786 billion   sold to private-label and whole-loan investors without monoline insurance. Taking into account settlements and the application of the statute of limitations for repurchase claims for these trusts, we believe the remaining open exposure for repurchase claims exists on loans with an original principal balance of   $102 billion  . Of the   $102 billion  ,   $45 billion   has been paid in full and   $42 billion   has defaulted or was severely delinquent at   December 31, 2015  . At least   25   payments have been made on approximately   62 percent   of these defaulted and severely delinquent loans. These remaining loans with open exposure predominantly relate to legacy Countrywide and First Franklin Financial Corporation originations of pay option and subprime first mortgages. 
  As it relates to private-label securitizations, a contractual liability to repurchase mortgage loans generally arises if there is a breach of representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interest of the investor or all the investors in a securitization trust or of the monoline insurer or other financial guarantor (as applicable). 
  We have received approximately   $32.7 billion   of representations and warranties repurchase claims related to loans originated between   2004   and   2008   including   $23.7 billion   from private-label securitization trustees and a financial guarantee provider,   $8.2 billion   from whole-loan investors and   $816 million   from one private-label securitization counterparty. New private-label claims are primarily related to repurchase requests received from trustees for private-label securitization transactions not included in the BNY Mellon Settlement. Of the   $32.7 billion   in claims, we have resolved   $16.0 billion   of these claims with losses of   $1.9 billion  . Approximately   $3.6 billion   of these claims were resolved through repurchase or indemnification,   $4.7 billion   were rescinded by the investor,   $325 million   were resolved through settlements and   $7.4 billion   are time-barred under the applicable statute of limitations and are therefore considered resolved.  
  At   December 31, 2015  , for these vintages, the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims submitted by private-label securitization trustees, whole-loan investors, including third-party securitization sponsors and others was   $16.7 billion  . We have performed an initial review with respect to substantially all of these claims and although we do not believe a valid basis for repurchase has been established by the claimant, we consider such claims activity in the computation of our liability for representations and warranties. Until we receive a repurchase claim, we generally do not review loan files related to private-label securitizations and believe we are not required by the governing documents to do so, unless particular facts suggest we should review an individual loan file. 

Estimated Range of Possible Loss 
  We currently estimate that the range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to   $2 billion   over existing accruals at   December 31, 2015  . We treat claims that are time-barred as resolved and do not consider such claims in the estimated range of possible loss. The estimated range of possible loss reflects principally exposures related to loans in private-label securitization trusts. It represents a reasonably possible loss, but does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. 
  For more information on the methodology used to estimate the representations and warranties liability, the corresponding estimated range of possible loss and the types of losses not considered in such estimates, see   Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K   and   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   and, for more information related to the sensitivity of the assumptions used to estimate our liability for representations and warranties, see   Complex Accounting Estimates   Representations and Warranties Liability   on page   104  . 
  Department of Justice Settlement 
  On August 20, 2014, we reached a comprehensive settlement with the DoJ and certain federal and state agencies (DoJ Settlement). As part of the DoJ Settlement, we paid civil monetary penalties and compensatory remediation payments in 2014. In 2014 and 2015, we provided creditable consumer relief activities primarily in the form of mortgage modifications, including first-lien principal forgiveness and forbearance modifications and second- and junior-lien extinguishments, low- to moderate-income mortgage originations, and community reinvestment and neighborhood stabilization efforts, with initiatives focused on communities experiencing, or at risk of, blight. Also, we have provided support for the expansion of available affordable rental housing. Our actions are well ahead of the DoJ agreement calling for us to complete delivery of the consumer relief by no later than August 31, 2018. The consumer relief requirements are subject to oversight by an independent monitor. 
  Other Mortgage-related Matters 
  We continue to be subject to additional borrower and non-borrower litigation and governmental and regulatory scrutiny and investigations related to our past and current origination, servicing, transfer of servicing and servicing rights, servicing compliance obligations, foreclosure activities, and MI and captive reinsurance practices with mortgage insurers. The ongoing environment of additional regulation, increased regulatory compliance obligations, and enhanced regulatory enforcement, combined with ongoing uncertainty related to the continuing evolution of the regulatory environment, has resulted in increased operational and compliance costs and may limit our ability to continue providing certain products and services. For more information on management s estimate of the aggregate range of possible loss and on regulatory investigations, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Managing Risk 
  Overview 
  Risk is inherent in all our business activities. Sound risk management enables us to serve our customers and deliver for our shareholders. If not managed well, risks can result in financial loss, regulatory sanctions and penalties, and damage to our reputation, each of which may adversely impact our ability to execute our business strategies. The Corporation takes a comprehensive approach to risk management with a defined Risk Framework and an articulated Risk Appetite Statement which are approved annually by the Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) and the Corporation s Board of Directors (the Board). 
  The seven types of risk faced by the Corporation are strategic, credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. 
             
    Strategic risk is the risk resulting from incorrect assumptions about external or internal factors, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments. 
                
    Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. 
                
    Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings. 
                
    Liquidity risk is the potential inability to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our business and customer needs under a range of economic conditions. 
                
    Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and related self-regulatory organizations  standards and codes of conduct. 
                
    Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems, or from external events. 
                
    Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation s conduct or business practices will adversely affect its profitability or operations through an inability to establish or maintain existing customer/client relationships. 
     The following sections address in more detail the specific procedures, measures and analyses of the major categories of risk. This discussion of managing risk focuses on the 2016 Risk Framework (Risk Framework) that, as part of its annual review process, was approved by the ERC and the Board in December 2015. The key enhancements from the 2015 Risk Framework include further increasing the focus on our strong risk culture and emphasizing our risk identification practices and the involvement and input of Front Line Units (FLUs) and control functions. It continues to recognize the same seven key risk types as discussed above and our risk management approach as outlined below. 
  A strong risk culture is fundamental to our values and operating principles. It requires us to focus on risk in all activities and encourages the necessary mindset and behavior to enable effective risk management, and promotes sound risk-taking within our risk appetite. Sustaining a strong risk culture throughout the organization is critical to the success of the Corporation and is a clear expectation of our executive management team and the Board. 

Our Risk Framework is the foundation for comprehensive management of the risks facing the Corporation. The Risk Framework sets forth clear roles, responsibilities and accountability for the management of risk and provides a blueprint for how the Board, through delegation of authority to committees and executive officers, establishes risk appetite and associated limits for our activities. 
  Executive management assesses, with Board oversight, the risk-adjusted returns of each business. Management reviews and approves the strategic and financial operating plans, as well as the capital plan and risk appetite statement, and recommends them annually to the Board for approval. Our strategic plan takes into consideration return objectives and financial resources, which must align with risk capacity and risk appetite. Management sets financial objectives for each business by allocating capital and setting a target for return on capital for each business. Capital allocations and operating limits are regularly evaluated as part of our overall governance processes as the businesses and the economic environment in which we operate continue to evolve. For more information regarding capital allocations, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   32  . 
  Our Risk Appetite Statement is intended to ensure that the Corporation maintains an acceptable risk profile by providing a common framework and a comparable set of measures for senior management and the Board to clearly indicate the level of risk the Corporation is willing to accept. Risk appetite is set at least annually in conjunction with the strategic, capital and financial operating plans to align risk appetite with the Corporation s strategy and financial resources. Our line of business strategies and risk appetite are also similarly aligned. For a more detailed discussion of our risk management activities, see the discussion below and pages   53   through   100    

Our overall capacity to take risk is limited; therefore, we prioritize the risks we take in order to maintain a strong and flexible financial position so we can withstand challenging economic conditions and take advantage of organic growth opportunities. Therefore, we set objectives and targets for capital and liquidity that are intended to permit the Corporation to continue to operate in a safe and sound manner at all times, including during periods of stress. 
  Our lines of business operate with risk limits (which may include credit, market and/or operational limits, as applicable) that are based on the amount of capital, earnings or liquidity we are willing to put at risk to achieve our strategic objectives and business plans. Executive management is responsible for tracking and reporting performance measurements as well as any exceptions to guidelines or limits. The Board, and its committees when appropriate, oversees financial performance, execution of the strategic and financial operating plans, adherence to risk appetite limits and the adequacy of internal controls. 
  Risk Management Governance 
  The Risk Framework describes delegations of authority whereby the Board and its committees may delegate authority to management-level committees or executive officers. Such delegations may authorize certain decision-making and approval functions, which may be evidenced in, for example, committee charters, job descriptions, meeting minutes and resolutions. 
  The chart below illustrates the inter-relationship among the Board, Board committees and management committees that have the majority of risk oversight responsibilities for the Corporation. This chart reflects the current Risk Framework as approved by the Board in December 2015. 

(1)    This presentation does not include committees for other legal entities. 
   (2)    Reports to the CEO and CFO with oversight by the Audit Committee. 
    Board of Directors and Board Committees 
  The Board, which consists of a substantial majority of independent directors, authorizes management to maintain an effective Risk Framework, and oversees compliance with safe and sound banking practices. In addition, the Board or its committees conduct appropriate inquiries of, and receive reports from management on risk-related matters to determine whether there are scope or resource limitations that impede the ability of independent risk management and/or Corporate Audit to execute its  

responsibilities. The following Board committees have the principal responsibility for enterprise-wide oversight of our risk management activities. These committees and other Board committees, as applicable, regularly report to the Board on risk-related matters. Through these activities, the Board and applicable committees are provided with thorough information on the Corporation s risk profile, and challenge executive management to appropriately address key risks facing the Corporation. Other Board committees as described below provide additional oversight of specific risks. 

Each of the committees shown on the above chart regularly reports to the Board on risk-related matters within the committee s responsibilities, which is intended to collectively provide the Board with integrated, thorough insight about our management of enterprise-wide risks. 
  Enterprise Risk Committee  
  The Enterprise Risk Committee (ERC) has primary responsibility for oversight of the Risk Framework and material risks facing the Corporation. It approves the Risk Framework and the Risk Appetite Statement and further recommends these documents to the Board for approval. The ERC oversees senior management s responsibilities for the identification, measurement, monitoring and control of all key risks facing the Corporation. The ERC may consult with other Board committees on risk-related matters. 
  Audit Committee 
  The Audit Committee oversees the qualifications, performance and independence of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, the performance of the Corporation s corporate audit function, the integrity of the Corporation s consolidated financial statements, compliance by the Corporation with legal and regulatory requirements, and makes inquiries of management or the Corporate General Auditor (CGA) to determine whether there are scope or resource limitations that impede the ability of Corporate Audit to execute its responsibilities. The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing compliance risk pursuant to the New York Stock Exchange listing standards. 
  Credit Committee  
  The Credit Committee provides additional oversight of senior management s responsibilities for the identification and management of Corporation-wide credit exposures. Our Credit Committee oversees, among other things, the identification and management of our credit exposures on an enterprise-wide basis, our responses to trends affecting those exposures, the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses and our credit-related policies. 
  Other Board Committees 
  Our Corporate Governance Committee oversees our Board s governance processes, identifies and reviews the qualifications of potential Board members, recommends nominees for election to our Board, recommends committee appointments for Board approval and reviews our stockholder engagement activities. 
  Our Compensation and Benefits Committee oversees establishing, maintaining and administering our compensation programs and employee benefit plans, including approving and recommending our Chief Executive Officer s (CEO) compensation to our Board for further approval by all independent directors, and reviewing and approving all of our executive officers  compensation. 
  Management Committees 
  Management committees may receive their authority from the Board, a Board committee, another management committee or from one or more executive officers. The primary management-level risk committee for the Corporation is the Management Risk Committee (MRC). Subject to Board oversight, the MRC is responsible for management oversight of all key risks facing the Corporation. The MRC provides management oversight of the  

Corporation s compliance and operational risk programs, balance sheet and capital management, funding activities and other liquidity activities, stress testing, trading activities, recovery and resolution planning, model risk, subsidiary governance and activities between member banks and their nonbank affiliates pursuant to Federal Reserve rules and regulations. The MRC is responsible for holistic risk management, including an integrated evaluation of risk, earnings, capital and liquidity, and it reports on these matters to the Board or Board committees. 
  Lines of Defense 
  In addition to the role of Executive Officers in managing risk, we have clear ownership and accountability across the three lines of defense: FLUs, independent risk management and Corporate Audit. The Corporation also has control functions outside of FLUs and independent risk management (e.g., Legal and Global Human Resources). The three lines of defense are integrated into our management-level governance structure. Each of these is described in more detail below. 
  Executive Officers 
  Executive officers lead various functions representing the functional roles. Authority for functional roles may be delegated to executive officers from the Board, Board committees or management-level committees. Executive officers, in turn, may further delegate responsibilities, as appropriate, to management-level committees, management routines or individuals. Executive officers review the Corporation s activities for consistency with our Risk Framework, Risk Appetite Statement, and applicable strategic, capital and financial operating plans, as well as applicable policies, standards, procedures and processes. Executive officers and other employees make decisions individually on a day-to-day basis, consistent with the authority they have been delegated. Executive officers and other employees may also serve on committees and participate in committee decisions. 
  Front Line Units 
  FLUs include the lines of business and an organizational unit, the Global Technology and Operations Group. FLUs are held accountable by the CEO and the Board for appropriately assessing and effectively managing all of the risks associated with their activities.  
  Three organizational units that include FLU and control function activities, but are not part of independent risk management are the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Group, Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs (GM CA) and the Chief Administrative Officer (CAO) Group. 
  Independent Risk Management 
  Independent risk management (IRM) is part of our control functions and includes Global Risk Management and Global Compliance. We have other control functions that are not part of IRM (other control functions may also provide oversight to FLU activities), including Legal, Global Human Resources and certain activities within the CFO Group, GM CA and the CAO Group. IRM, led by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), is responsible for independently assessing and overseeing risks within FLUs and other control functions. IRM establishes written enterprise policies and procedures that include concentration risk limits where appropriate. Such policies and procedures outline how aggregate risks are identified, measured, monitored and controlled. 

The CRO has the authority and independence to develop and implement a meaningful risk management framework. The CRO has unrestricted access to the Board and reports directly to both the ERC and to the CEO. Global Risk Management is organized into enterprise risk teams and FLU risk teams that work collaboratively in executing their respective duties. 
  Within IRM, Global Compliance independently assesses compliance risk, and evaluates adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying compliance issues and risks, performing monitoring and testing, and reporting on the state of compliance activities across the Corporation. Additionally, Global Compliance works with FLUs and control functions so that day-to-day activities operate in a compliant manner. 
  Corporate Audit 
  Corporate Audit and the CGA maintain their independence from the FLUs, IRM and other control functions by reporting directly to the Audit Committee or the Board. The CGA administratively reports to the CEO. Corporate Audit provides independent assessment and validation through testing of key processes and controls across the Corporation. Corporate Audit includes Credit Review which periodically tests and examines credit portfolios and processes. 
  Risk Management Processes 
  The Risk Framework requires that strong risk management practices are integrated in key strategic, capital and financial planning processes and day-to-day business processes across the Corporation, with a goal of ensuring risks are appropriately considered, evaluated and responded to in a timely manner. 
  We employ a risk management process, referred to as Identify, Measure, Monitor and Control (IMMC) as part of our daily activities. 
  Identify     To be effectively managed, risks must be clearly defined and proactively identified. Proper risk identification focuses on recognizing and understanding all key risks inherent in our business activities or key risks that may arise from external factors. Each employee is expected to identify and escalate risks promptly. Risk identification is an ongoing process, incorporating input from FLUs and control functions, designed to be forward looking and capture relevant risk factors across all of our lines of business.  
  Measure       Once a risk is identified, it must be prioritized and accurately measured through a systematic risk quantification process including quantitative and qualitative components. Risk is measured at various levels including, but not limited to, risk type, FLU, legal entity and on an aggregate basis. This risk quantification process helps to capture changes in our risk profile due to changes in strategic direction, concentrations, portfolio quality and the overall economic environment. Senior management considers how risk exposures might evolve under a variety of stress scenarios.  
  Monitor       We monitor risk levels regularly to track adherence to risk appetite, policies, standards, procedures and processes. We also regularly update risk assessments and review risk exposures. Through our monitoring, we can determine our level of risk relative to limits and can take action in a timely manner. We also can determine when risk limits are breached and have processes to appropriately report and escalate exceptions. This includes immediate requests for approval to managers and alerts to executive management, management-level  

committees or the Board (directly or through an appropriate committee). 
  Control       We establish and communicate risk limits and controls through policies, standards, procedures and processes that define the responsibilities and authority for risk-taking. The limits and controls can be adjusted by the Board or management when conditions or risk tolerances warrant. These limits may be absolute (e.g., loan amount, trading volume) or relative (e.g., percentage of loan book in higher-risk categories). Our lines of business are held accountable to perform within the established limits. 
  Among the key tools in the risk management process are the Risk and Control Self Assessments (RCSAs). The RCSA process, consistent with IMMC, is one of our primary methods for capturing the identification and assessment of operational risk exposures, including inherent and residual operational risk ratings, and control effectiveness ratings. The end-to-end RCSA process incorporates risk identification and assessment of the control environment; monitoring, reporting and escalating risk; quality assurance and data validation; and integration with the risk appetite. This results in a comprehensive risk management view that enables understanding of and action on operational risks and controls for our processes, products, activities and systems. 
  The formal processes used to manage risk represent a part of our overall risk management process. Corporate culture and the actions of our employees are also critical to effective risk management. Through our Code of Conduct, we set a high standard for our employees. The Code of Conduct provides a framework for all of our employees to conduct themselves with the highest integrity. We instill a strong and comprehensive risk management culture through communications, training, policies, procedures, and organizational roles and responsibilities. Additionally, we continue to strengthen the link between the employee performance management process and individual compensation to encourage employees to work toward enterprise-wide risk goals. 
  Corporation-wide Stress Testing 
  Integral to the Corporation s Capital Planning, Financial Planning and Strategic Planning processes is stress testing, which the Corporation conducts on a periodic basis to better understand balance sheet, earnings, capital and liquidity sensitivities to certain economic and business scenarios, including economic and market conditions that are more severe than anticipated. These stress tests provide an understanding of the potential impacts from the Corporation s risk profile on the balance sheet, earnings, capital and liquidity, and serve as a key component of the Corporation s capital and risk management. The intent of stress testing is to develop a comprehensive understanding of potential impacts of on- and off-balance sheet risks at the Corporation and how they impact financial resiliency.  
  Contingency Planning Routines 
  We have developed and maintain contingency plans that are designed to prepare us in advance to respond in the event of potential adverse outcomes and scenarios. These contingency planning routines include capital contingency planning, liquidity contingency funding plans, recovery planning and enterprise resiliency, and provide monitoring, escalation routines and response plans. Contingency response plans are designed to enable us to increase capital, access funding sources and reduce  

risk through consideration of potential actions that include asset sales, business sales, capital or debt issuances, and other de-risking strategies. We also maintain contingency plans as part of our resolution plan to limit adverse systemic impacts that could be associated with a potential resolution. 
    Strategic Risk Management 
  Strategic risk is embedded in every business and is one of the major risk categories along with credit, market, liquidity, compliance, operational and reputational risks. It is the risk that results from incorrect assumptions, inappropriate business plans, ineffective business strategy execution, or failure to respond in a timely manner to changes in the regulatory, macroeconomic or competitive environments, in the geographic locations in which we operate, such as competitor actions, changing customer preferences, product obsolescence and technology developments. Our strategic plan is consistent with our risk appetite and specifically addresses strategic risks. 
  The strategic plan is reviewed and approved annually by the Board, as is the capital plan, financial operating plan and risk appetite statement. With oversight by the Board, executive management ensures that consistency is applied while executing the Corporation s strategic plan, core operating principles and risk appetite. The executive management team continuously monitors business performance throughout the year to assess strategic risk and find early warning signals so that risks can be proactively managed. Executive management regularly reviews performance versus the plan, updates the Board via quarterly reporting routines (and more frequently as relevant) and implements changes as deemed appropriate. The following are assessed in the regular executive reviews: forecasted earnings and returns on capital, the current risk profile, current capital and liquidity requirements, staffing levels and changes required to support the plan, stress testing results, and other qualitative factors such as market growth rates and peer analysis.  
  Significant strategic actions, such as capital actions, material acquisitions or divestitures, and recovery and resolution plans are reviewed and approved by the Board as required. At the business level, as we introduce new products, we monitor their performance relative to expectations (e.g., for earnings and returns on capital). With oversight by the Board and the ERC, executive management performs similar analyses throughout the year, and evaluates changes to the financial forecast or the risk, capital or liquidity positions as deemed appropriate to balance and optimize achieving the targeted risk appetite, shareholder returns and maintaining the targeted financial strength. 
  We use proprietary models to measure the capital requirements for credit, country, market, operational and strategic risks. The allocated capital assigned to each business is based on its unique risk exposures. With oversight by the Board, executive management assesses the risk-adjusted returns of each business in approving strategic and financial operating plans. The businesses use allocated capital to define business strategies, and price products and transactions. For more information on how this measure is calculated, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  . 

Capital Management 
  The Corporation manages its capital position to maintain sufficient capital to support its business activities and to maintain capital, risk and risk appetite commensurate with one another. Additionally, we seek to maintain safety and soundness at all times, even under adverse scenarios, take advantage of organic growth opportunities, maintain ready access to financial markets, continue to serve as a credit intermediary, remain a source of strength for our subsidiaries, and satisfy current and future regulatory capital requirements. Capital management is integrated into our risk and governance processes, as capital is a key consideration in the development of our strategic plan, risk appetite and risk limits.  
  We conduct an Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) on a periodic basis. The ICAAP is a forward-looking assessment of our projected capital needs and resources, incorporating earnings, balance sheet and risk forecasts under baseline and adverse economic and market conditions. We utilize periodic stress tests to assess the potential impacts to our balance sheet, earnings, regulatory capital and liquidity under a variety of stress scenarios. We perform qualitative risk assessments to identify and assess material risks not fully captured in our forecasts or stress tests. We assess the potential capital impacts of proposed changes to regulatory capital requirements. Management assesses ICAAP results and provides documented quarterly assessments of the adequacy of our capital guidelines and capital position to the Board or its committees. 
  The Corporation periodically reviews capital allocated to its businesses and allocates capital annually during the strategic and capital planning processes. For additional information, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   32  . 
  CCAR and Capital Planning 
  The Federal Reserve requires BHCs to submit a capital plan and requests for capital actions on an annual basis, consistent with the rules governing the CCAR capital plan. 
  In January 2015, we submitted our 2015 CCAR capital plan and related supervisory stress tests. The requested capital actions included a request to repurchase $4.0 billion of common stock over five quarters beginning in the second quarter of 2015, and to maintain the quarterly common stock dividend at the current rate of $0.05 per share. On March 11, 2015, the Federal Reserve advised that it did not object to our 2015 capital plan but gave a conditional non-objection under which we were required to resubmit our CCAR capital plan and address certain weaknesses the Federal Reserve identified in our capital planning process. We have established plans and taken actions which addressed the identified weaknesses, and we resubmitted our CCAR capital plan on September 30, 2015. The Federal Reserve announced on December 10, 2015 that it did not object to our resubmitted CCAR capital plan. 
  As of   December 31, 2015  , in connection with our 2015 CCAR capital plan, we have repurchased approximately   $2.4 billion   of common stock. The timing and amount of additional common stock repurchases and common stock dividends will continue to be consistent with our 2015 CCAR capital plan. In addition, the timing and amount of common stock repurchases will be subject to various factors, including the Corporation s capital position, liquidity, financial performance and alternative uses of capital, stock trading price, and general market conditions, and may be suspended at any time. The common stock repurchases may be  

effected through open market purchases or privately negotiated transactions, including repurchase plans that satisfy the conditions of Rule 10b5-1 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
  Regulatory Capital 
  As a financial services holding company,   we are   subject to regulatory capital rules issued by U.S. banking regulators. On January 1, 2014,   we   became subject to Basel 3, which includes certain transition provisions through January 1, 2019. The Corporation and its primary affiliated banking entity, BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3.    
  Basel 3 Overview 
  Basel 3 updated the composition of capital and established a Common equity tier 1 capital ratio. Common equity tier 1 capital primarily includes common stock, retained earnings and accumulated OCI. Basel 3 revised minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements, added a SLR, and addressed the adequately capitalized minimum requirements under the PCA framework. Finally, Basel 3 established two methods of calculating risk-weighted assets, the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches. For additional information, see   Capital Management   Standardized Approach   and   Capital Management   Advanced Approaches   on page   55  . 
  As an Advanced approaches institution, under Basel 3, we were required to complete a qualification period (parallel run) to demonstrate compliance with the Basel 3 Advanced approaches to the satisfaction of U.S. banking regulators. We received approval to begin using the Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2015. As previously disclosed, with the approval to exit parallel run, U.S. banking regulators requested modifications to certain  

internal analytical models including the wholesale (e.g., commercial) credit models. All requested modifications were incorporated, which increased our risk-weighted assets, and are reflected in the risk-based ratios in the fourth quarter of 2015. Having exited parallel run on October 1, 2015, we are required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the PCA framework, and was the Advanced approaches in the fourth quarter of 2015. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2015, we were required to report our capital adequacy under the Standardized approach only. 
  Regulatory Capital Composition 
  Basel 3 requires certain deductions from and adjustments to capital, which are primarily those related to MSRs, deferred tax assets and defined benefit pension assets. Also, any assets that are a direct deduction from the computation of capital are excluded from risk-weighted assets and adjusted average total assets. Basel 3 also provides for the inclusion in capital of net unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and certain marketable equity securities recorded in accumulated OCI. These changes are impacted by, among other factors, fluctuations in interest rates, earnings performance and corporate actions. Under Basel 3 regulatory capital transition provisions, changes to the composition of regulatory capital are generally recognized in   20 percent   annual increments, and will be fully recognized as of January 1, 2018.    
  Table 12   summarizes how certain regulatory capital deductions and adjustments have been or will be transitioned from 2014 through 2018 for Common equity tier 1 and Tier 1 capital. 

Table 12 
    Summary of Certain Basel 3 Regulatory Capital Transition Provisions 

Beginning on January 1 of each year 
    2014 
      
    2015 
      
    2016 
      
    2017 
      
    2018 
      Common equity tier 1 capital 

Percent of total amount deducted from Common equity tier 1 capital includes: 
    20% 
      
    40% 
      
    60% 
      
    80% 
      
    100% 
      Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards; intangibles, other than mortgage servicing rights and goodwill; defined benefit pension fund net assets; net unrealized cumulative gains (losses) related to changes in own credit risk on liabilities, including derivatives, measured at fair value; direct and indirect investments in our own Common equity tier 1 capital instruments; certain amounts exceeding the threshold by 10 percent individually and 15 percent in aggregate 
      Percent of total amount used to adjust Common equity tier 1 capital includes    (1)   : 
    80% 
      
    60% 
      
    40% 
      
    20% 
      
    0% 
      Net unrealized gains (losses) on AFS debt and certain marketable equity securities recorded in accumulated OCI; employee benefit plan adjustments recorded in accumulated OCI 
      Tier 1 capital 

Percent of total amount deducted from Tier 1 capital includes: 
    80% 
      
    60% 
      
    40% 
      
    20% 
      
    0% 
      Deferred tax assets arising from net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards; defined benefit pension fund net assets; net unrealized cumulative gains (losses) related to changes in own credit risk on liabilities, including derivatives, measured at fair value 

(1)   
    Represents the phase-out percentage of the exclusion by year (e.g., 40 percent of net unrealized gains (losses) on AFS debt and certain marketable equity securities recorded in accumulated OCI was included in 2015). 
       Additionally, Basel 3 revised the regulatory capital treatment for Trust Securities, requiring them to be transitioned from Tier 1 capital into Tier 2 capital in 2014 and 2015, until fully excluded from Tier 1 capital in 2016, and transitioned from Tier 2 capital beginning in 2016 with the full exclusion in 2022.   As of   December 31, 2015  , our qualifying Trust Securities were   $1.4 billion  , approximately   nine   bps of the Tier 1 capital ratio. 

Minimum Capital Requirements 
  Minimum capital requirements and related buffers are being phased in from January 1, 2014 through January 1, 2019. Effective January 1, 2015, the PCA framework was also amended to reflect the requirements of Basel 3. The PCA framework establishes categories of capitalization, including  well capitalized,  based on regulatory ratio requirements. U.S. banking regulators are required to take certain mandatory actions depending on the category of capitalization, with no mandatory actions required for  well-capitalized  banking organizations, which included BANA at  

December 31, 2015  . Also effective January 1, 2015, Common equity tier 1 capital is included in the measurement of  well-capitalized  for depository institutions. 
  Beginning January 1, 2016, we are subject to a capital conservation buffer, a countercyclical capital buffer and a global systemically important bank (G-SIB) surcharge which will be phased in over a three-year period ending January 1, 2019. Once fully phased in, the Corporation s risk-based capital ratio requirements will include a capital conservation buffer greater than 2.5 percent, plus any applicable countercyclical capital buffer and G-SIB surcharge in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonus payments. The buffers and surcharge must be composed solely of Common equity tier 1 capital. The countercyclical capital buffer is currently set at zero. U.S. banking regulators must jointly decide on any increase in the countercyclical buffer, after which time institutions will have up to one year for implementation. Based on the Federal Reserve final rule published in July 2015, we estimate that our G-SIB surcharge will increase our risk-based capital ratio requirements by 3.0 percent once fully phased in. The G-SIB surcharge is calculated annually and may differ from this estimate over time. For more information on our G-SIB surcharge, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Developments   on page   59  .  
  Standardized Approach 
  Total risk-weighted assets under the Basel 3 Standardized approach consist of credit risk and market risk measures. Credit risk-weighted assets are measured by applying fixed risk weights to on- and off-balance sheet exposures (excluding securitizations), determined based on the characteristics of the exposure, such as type of obligor, Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development country risk code and maturity, among others. Off-balance sheet exposures primarily include financial guarantees, unfunded lending commitments, letters of credit and potential future derivative exposures. Market risk applies to covered positions which include trading assets and liabilities, foreign exchange exposures and commodity exposures. Market risk capital is modeled for general market risk and specific risk for products where specific risk regulatory approval has been granted; in the absence of specific risk model approval, standard specific risk charges apply. For securitization exposures, risk-weighted assets are determined using the Simplified Supervisory Formula Approach (SSFA). Under the Standardized approach, no distinction is made for variations in credit quality for corporate exposures, and the economic benefit of collateral is restricted to a limited list of eligible securities and cash. 
  Advanced Approaches 
  In addition to the credit risk and market risk measures, Basel 3 Advanced approaches include measures of operational risk and risks related to the credit valuation adjustment (CVA) for over-the-counter (OTC) derivative exposures. The Advanced approaches rely on internal analytical models to measure risk weights for credit risk exposures and allow the use of models to estimate the exposure at default (EAD) for certain exposure types. Market risk  

capital measurements are consistent with the Standardized approach, except for securitization exposures. For both trading and non-trading securitization exposures, institutions are permitted to use the Supervisory Formula Approach (SFA) and would use the SSFA if the SFA is unavailable for a particular exposure. Non-securitization credit risk exposures are measured using internal ratings-based models to determine the applicable risk weight by estimating the probability of default, loss given default (LGD) and, in certain instances, EAD. The internal analytical models primarily rely on internal historical default and loss experience. Operational risk is measured using internal analytical models which rely on both internal and external operational loss experience and data. The calculations require management to make estimates, assumptions and interpretations, including with respect to the probability of future events based on historical experience. Actual results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. Under the Federal Reserve s reservation of authority, they may require us to hold an amount of capital greater than otherwise required under the capital rules if they determine that our risk-based capital requirement using our internal analytical models is not commensurate with our credit, market, operational or other risks. 
  Supplementary Leverage Ratio 
  Basel 3 also requires Advanced approaches institutions to disclose a SLR. The numerator of the SLR is quarter-end Basel 3 Tier 1 capital reflective of Basel 3 numerator transition provisions. The denominator is total leverage exposure based on the daily average of the sum of on-balance sheet exposures less permitted Tier 1 deductions, as well as the simple average of certain off-balance sheet exposures, as of the end of each month in a quarter. Off-balance sheet exposures primarily include undrawn lending commitments, letters of credit, potential future derivative exposures and repo-style transactions. Total leverage exposure includes the effective notional principal amount of credit derivatives and similar instruments through which credit protection is sold. The credit conversion factors (CCFs) applied to certain off-balance sheet exposures conform to the graduated CCF utilized under the Basel 3 Standardized approach, but are subject to a minimum 10 percent CCF. Effective January 1, 2018, the Corporation will be required to maintain a minimum SLR of 3.0 percent, plus a supplementary leverage buffer of 2.0 percent, in order to avoid certain restrictions on capital distributions and discretionary bonuses. Insured depository institution subsidiaries of BHCs, including BANA, will be required to maintain a minimum 6.0 percent SLR to be considered  well capitalized  under the PCA framework. 
  Capital Composition and Ratios 
  Table 13   presents Bank of America Corporation s transition and fully phased-in capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 3     Standardized and Advanced approaches as measured at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . As of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Corporation meets the definition of  well capitalized  under current regulatory requirements. 

(1)   
    We received approval to begin using the Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2015. With the approval to exit parallel run, we are required to report regulatory capital risk-weighted assets and ratios under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is to be used to assess capital adequacy and was the Advanced approaches at December 31, 2015. Prior to exiting parallel run, we were required to report regulatory capital risk-weighted assets and ratios under the Standardized approach only. As previously disclosed, with the approval to exit parallel run, U.S. banking regulators requested modifications to certain internal analytical models including the wholesale (e.g., commercial) credit models which increased our risk-weighted assets in the fourth quarter of 2015.       
               (2)   
    To be  well capitalized  under the current U.S. banking regulatory agency definitions, a bank holding company must maintain these or higher ratios and not be subject to a Federal Reserve order or directive to maintain higher capital levels.  
               (3)   
    Basel 3 fully phased-in Advanced approaches estimates assume approval by U.S. banking regulators of our internal analytical models, including approval of the internal models methodology (IMM). As of December 31, 2015, we had not received IMM approval.  
               (4)   
    Fully phased-in regulatory minimums assume a capital conservation buffer of   2.5 percent   and estimated G-SIB surcharge of   3.0 percent  . The estimated fully phased-in countercyclical capital buffer is   zero  . We will be subject to fully phased-in regulatory minimums on January 1, 2019. 
               (5)   
    Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses. 
       n/a = not applicable 
    Common equity tier 1 capital under Basel 3 Advanced       Transition was   $163.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , an   increase   of   $7.7 billion   compared to   December 31, 2014   driven by earnings, partially offset by dividends, common stock repurchases and the impact of certain transition provisions under Basel 3 rules. For more information on Basel 3 transition provisions, see   Table 12  . During   2015  , Total capital   increased     $2.2 billion   primarily driven by the same factors that drove the increase in Common equity tier 1 capital as well as issuances of preferred stock and subordinated debt, partially offset by lower eligible credit reserves included in additional Tier 2 capital. The decrease in eligible credit  

reserves included in additional Tier 2 capital is due to the change in the calculation of eligible credit reserves under the Advanced approaches. The Corporation began using the Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2015. For additional information, see Table   14  . 
  Risk-weighted assets   increased     $341 billion   during   2015   to   $1,602 billion   primarily due to the change in the calculation of risk-weighted assets from the general risk-based approach at   December 31, 2014   to the Basel 3 Advanced approaches. 

Table 14   presents the capital composition as measured under Basel 3       Transition at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

n/a = not applicable 
  Table 15   presents the components of our risk-weighted assets as measured under Basel 3   Transition at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

n/a = not applicable 

Table 16   presents a reconciliation of regulatory capital in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized       Transition to the Basel 3 Standardized approach fully phased-in estimates and Basel 3 Advanced approaches fully phased-in estimates at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  .  

(2)   
    Basel 3 fully phased-in Advanced approaches estimates assume approval by U.S. banking regulators of our internal analytical models, including approval of the internal models methodology (IMM). As of December 31, 2015, we had not received IMM approval.  
     n/a = not applicable 

Bank of America, N.A. Regulatory Capital 

Table 17   presents transition regulatory information for BANA in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced Approaches as measured at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    Percent required to meet guidelines to be considered  well capitalized  under the Prompt Corrective Action framework, except for the   December 31, 2014   Common equity tier 1 capital which reflects capital adequacy minimum requirements as an Advanced approaches bank under Basel 3 during a transition period that ended in 2014. 
     n/a = not applicable 
    Regulatory Developments 
  Global Systemically Important Bank Surcharge 
  We have been designated as a G-SIB and as such, are subject to a risk-based capital surcharge (G-SIB surcharge) that must be satisfied with Common equity tier 1 capital. The surcharge assessment methodology published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee) relies on an indicator-based measurement approach (e.g., size, complexity, cross-jurisdictional activity, inter-connectedness and substitutability/financial institution infrastructure) to determine a score relative to the global banking industry. Institutions with the highest scores are designated as G-SIBs and are assigned to one of four loss absorbency buckets from   1.0 percent   to   2.5 percent  , in   0.5 percent   increments based on each institution s relative score and supervisory judgment. A fifth loss absorbency bucket of 3.5 percent serves to discourage banks from becoming more systemically important. 
  In July 2015, the Federal Reserve finalized a regulation that will implement G-SIB surcharge requirements for the largest U.S. BHCs. Under the final rule, assignment to loss absorbency buckets will be determined by the higher score as calculated according to two methods. Method 1 is consistent with the Basel Committee s methodology, whereas method 2 replaces the substitutability/financial institution infrastructure indicator with a measure of short-term wholesale funding and then determines the overall score by applying a fixed multiplier for each of the other systemic indicators. Under the final U.S. rules, the G-SIB surcharge is being phased in beginning on January 1, 2016, becoming fully effective on January 1, 2019. Once fully phased in, we estimate that our G-SIB surcharge will increase our risk-based capital ratio requirements by 3.0 percent under method 2 and 1.5 percent under method 1. 
  For more information on regulatory capital, see   Note 16   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Minimum Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity 
  On October 30, 2015, the Federal Reserve issued a notice of proposed rulemaking to establish external total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirements to improve the resolvability and resiliency of large, interconnected BHCs. Under the proposal, U.S. G-SIBs would be required to maintain a minimum external TLAC of the greater of (1) 16 percent of risk-weighted assets in 2019, increasing to 18 percent of risk-weighted assets in 2022 (plus additional TLAC equal to enough Common equity tier 1 capital as a percentage of risk-weighted assets to cover the capital conservation buffer, any applicable countercyclical capital buffer plus the applicable method 1 G-SIB surcharge), or (2) 9.5 percent of the denominator of the SLR. In addition, U.S. G-SIBs must meet a minimum long-term debt requirement equal to the greater of (1) 6.0 percent of risk-weighted assets plus the applicable method 2 G-SIB surcharge, or (2) 4.5 percent of the denominator of the SLR. 
  Revisions to Approaches for Measuring Risk-Weighted Assets 
  The Basel Committee has several open proposals to revise key methodologies for measuring risk-weighted assets. The proposals include a standardized approach for credit risk, standardized approaches for operational risk, revisions to the securitization framework and revisions to the CVA risk framework. In January 2016, the Basel Committee finalized its fundamental review of the trading book, which updates both modeled and standardized approaches for market risk measurement. A revised standardized model for counterparty credit risk has also previously been finalized. These revisions would be coupled with a proposed capital floor framework to limit the extent to which banks can reduce risk-weighted asset levels through the use of internal models. The Basel Committee expects to finalize the outstanding proposals by the end of 2016. Once the proposals are finalized, U.S. banking regulators may update the U.S. Basel 3 rules to incorporate the Basel Committee revisions. 

Broker-dealer Regulatory Capital and Securities Regulation 
  The Corporation s principal U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries are Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith (MLPF S) and Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp (MLPCC). MLPCC is a fully-guaranteed subsidiary of MLPF S and provides clearing and settlement services. Both entities are subject to the net capital requirements of SEC Rule 15c3-1. Both entities are also registered as futures commission merchants and are subject to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission Regulation 1.17. 
  MLPF S has elected to compute the minimum capital requirement in accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirement as permitted by SEC Rule 15c3-1. At   December 31, 2015  , MLPF S s regulatory net capital as defined by Rule 15c3-1 was $11.4 billion and exceeded the minimum requirement of $1.5 billion by $9.9 billion. MLPCC s net capital of $3.3 billion exceeded the minimum requirement of $473 million by $2.8 billion. 
  In accordance with the Alternative Net Capital Requirements, MLPF S is required to maintain tentative net capital in excess of $1.0 billion, net capital in excess of $500 million and notify the SEC in the event its tentative net capital is less than $5.0 billion. At   December 31, 2015  , MLPF S had tentative net capital and net capital in excess of the minimum and notification requirements. 
  Merrill Lynch International (MLI), a U.K. investment firm, is regulated by the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority, and is subject to certain regulatory capital requirements. At   December 31, 2015  , MLI s capital resources were $34.4 billion which exceeded the minimum requirement of $16.6 billion. 
  Common Stock Dividends 
  For a summary of our declared quarterly cash dividends on common stock during   2015   and through   February 24, 2016  , see   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
    Liquidity Risk 
  Funding and Liquidity Risk Management 
  Liquidity risk is the potential inability to meet expected or unexpected cash flow and collateral needs while continuing to support our business and customer needs under a range of economic conditions.   Our primary liquidity risk management objective is to meet all contractual and contingent financial obligations at all times, including during periods of stress. To achieve that objective, we analyze and monitor our liquidity risk under expected and stressed conditions, maintain excess liquidity and access to diverse funding sources, including our stable deposit base, and seek to align liquidity-related incentives and risks.  
  We define excess liquidity as readily available assets, limited to cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities that we can use to meet our contractual and contingent financial obligations as those obligations arise. We manage our liquidity position through line of business and ALM activities, as well as  

through our legal entity funding strategy, on both a forward and current (including intraday) basis under both expected and stressed conditions. We believe that a centralized approach to funding and liquidity risk management within Corporate Treasury enhances our ability to monitor liquidity requirements, maximizes access to funding sources, minimizes borrowing costs and facilitates timely responses to liquidity events. 
  The Board approves the Corporation s liquidity policy and the ERC approves the contingency funding plan, including establishing liquidity risk tolerance levels. The MRC monitors our liquidity position and reviews the impact of strategic decisions on our liquidity. The MRC is responsible for overseeing liquidity risks and maintaining exposures within the established tolerance levels. MRC reviews and monitors our liquidity position, cash flow forecasts, stress testing scenarios and results, and implements our liquidity limits and guidelines. For additional information, see   Managing Risk   on page   49  . Under this governance framework, we have developed certain funding and liquidity risk management practices which include: maintaining excess liquidity at the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities; determining what amounts of excess liquidity are appropriate for these entities based on analysis of debt maturities and other potential cash outflows, including those that we may experience during stressed market conditions; diversifying funding sources, considering our asset profile and legal entity structure; and performing contingency planning. 
  Global Excess Liquidity Sources and Other Unencumbered Assets 
  We maintain excess liquidity available to Bank of America Corporation, including the parent company and selected subsidiaries, in the form of cash and high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities. Our liquidity buffer, or Global Excess Liquidity Sources (GELS), is comprised of assets that are readily available to the parent company and selected subsidiaries, including bank and broker-dealer subsidiaries, even during stressed market conditions. Our cash is primarily on deposit with the Federal Reserve and, to a lesser extent, central banks outside of the U.S. We limit the composition of high-quality, liquid, unencumbered securities to U.S. government securities, U.S. agency securities, U.S. agency MBS and a select group of non-U.S. government and supranational securities. We believe we can quickly obtain cash for these securities, even in stressed conditions, through repurchase agreements or outright sales. We hold our GELS in legal entities that allow us to meet the liquidity requirements of our global businesses, and we consider the impact of potential regulatory, tax, legal and other restrictions that could limit the transferability of funds among entities. Our GELS are substantially the same in composition to what qualifies as High Quality Liquid Assets (HQLA) under the final U.S. LCR rules. For more information on the final rules, see   Liquidity Risk   Basel 3 Liquidity Standards   on page   62  . 

Our GELS were   $504 billion   and   $439 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and were maintained as presented in   Table 18  . 

As shown in   Table 18  , parent company GELS totaled   $96 billion   and   $98 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The   decrease   in parent company liquidity was primarily due to derivative cash collateral outflows, common stock buy-backs and dividends, partially offset by net subsidiary inflows. Typically, parent company excess liquidity is in the form of cash deposited with BANA. 
  GELS available to our bank subsidiaries totaled   $361 billion   and   $306 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The   increase   in bank subsidiaries  liquidity was primarily due to deposit inflows, partially offset by loan growth. GELS at bank subsidiaries exclude the cash deposited by the parent company. Our bank subsidiaries can also generate incremental liquidity by pledging a range of other unencumbered loans and securities to certain Federal Home Loan Banks (FHLBs) and the Federal Reserve Discount Window. The cash we could have obtained by borrowing against this pool of specifically-identified eligible assets was $252 billion and $214 billion at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . We have established operational procedures to enable us to borrow against these assets, including regularly monitoring our total pool of eligible loans and securities collateral. Eligibility is defined in guidelines from the FHLBs and the Federal Reserve and is subject to change at their discretion. Due to regulatory restrictions, liquidity generated by the bank subsidiaries can generally be used only to fund obligations within the bank subsidiaries and can only be transferred to the parent company or nonbank subsidiaries with prior regulatory approval. 
  GELS available to our other regulated entities, comprised primarily of broker-dealer subsidiaries, totaled   $47 billion   and   $35 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The   increase   in liquidity in other regulated entities is largely driven by parent company liquidity contributions to the Corporation s primary U.S. broker-dealer. Our other regulated entities also held other unencumbered investment-grade securities and equities that we believe could be used to generate additional liquidity. Liquidity held in an other regulated entity is primarily available to meet the obligations of that entity and transfers to the parent company or to any other subsidiary may be subject to prior regulatory approval due to regulatory restrictions and minimum requirements. 

Table 19   presents the composition of GELS at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

Time-to-required Funding and Stress Modeling 
  We use a variety of metrics to determine the appropriate amounts of excess liquidity to maintain at the parent company, our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities. One metric we use to evaluate the appropriate level of excess liquidity at the parent company is  time-to-required funding.  This debt coverage measure indicates the number of months that the parent company can continue to meet its unsecured contractual obligations as they come due using only the parent company s liquidity sources without issuing any new debt or accessing any additional liquidity sources. We define unsecured contractual obligations for purposes of this metric as maturities of senior or subordinated debt issued or guaranteed by Bank of America Corporation. These include certain unsecured debt instruments, primarily structured liabilities, which we may be required to settle for cash prior to maturity. Our time-to-required funding was 39 months at   December 31, 2015  . For purposes of calculating time-to-required funding, at   December 31, 2015  , we have included in the amount of unsecured contractual obligations   $8.5 billion   related to the BNY Mellon Settlement. The final conditions of the settlement have been satisfied and, accordingly, the Corporation made the settlement payment in February 2016. For more information on the BNY Mellon Settlement, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We also utilize liquidity stress analysis to assist us in determining the appropriate amounts of excess liquidity to maintain at the parent company, our bank subsidiaries and other regulated entities. The liquidity stress testing process is an integral part of analyzing our potential contractual and contingent cash outflows beyond the outflows considered in the time-to-required funding analysis. We evaluate the liquidity requirements under a range of scenarios with varying levels of severity and time horizons. The scenarios we consider and utilize incorporate market-wide and Corporation-specific events, including potential credit rating downgrades for the parent company and our subsidiaries, and are based on historical experience, regulatory guidance, and both expected and unexpected future events. 

The types of potential contractual and contingent cash outflows we consider in our scenarios may include, but are not limited to, upcoming contractual maturities of unsecured debt and reductions in new debt issuance; diminished access to secured financing markets; potential deposit withdrawals; increased draws on loan commitments, liquidity facilities and letters of credit; additional collateral that counterparties could call if our credit ratings were downgraded; collateral and margin requirements arising from market value changes; and potential liquidity required to maintain businesses and finance customer activities. Changes in certain market factors, including, but not limited to, credit rating downgrades, could negatively impact potential contractual and contingent outflows and the related financial instruments, and in some cases these impacts could be material to our financial results. 
  We consider all sources of funds that we could access during each stress scenario and focus particularly on matching available sources with corresponding liquidity requirements by legal entity. We also use the stress modeling results to manage our asset-liability profile and establish limits and guidelines on certain funding sources and businesses. 
  Basel 3 Liquidity Standards 
  The Basel Committee has issued two liquidity risk-related standards that are considered part of the Basel 3 liquidity standards: the LCR and the Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR).  
  In 2014, U.S. banking regulators finalized LCR requirements for the largest U.S. financial institutions on a consolidated basis and for their subsidiary depository institutions with total assets greater than $10 billion. The LCR is calculated as the amount of a financial institution s unencumbered HQLA relative to the estimated net cash outflows the institution could encounter over a 30-day period of significant liquidity stress, expressed as a percentage. Under the final rule, an initial minimum LCR of 80 percent was required as of January 2015, increased to 90 percent as of January 2016 and will increase to 100 percent in January 2017. These minimum requirements are applicable to the Corporation on a consolidated basis and to our insured depository institutions. As of   December 31, 2015  , we estimate that the consolidated Corporation was above the 2017 LCR requirements. The Corporation s LCR may fluctuate from period to period due to normal business flows from customer activity. 
  In 2014, the Basel Committee issued a final standard for the NSFR, the standard that is intended to reduce funding risk over a longer time horizon. The NSFR is designed to ensure an appropriate amount of stable funding, generally capital and liabilities maturing beyond one year, given the mix of assets and off-balance sheet items. The final standard aligns the NSFR to the LCR and gives more credit to a wider range of funding. The final standard also includes adjustments to the stable funding required for certain types of assets, some of which reduce the stable funding requirement and some of which increase it. Basel Committee standards generally do not apply directly to U.S. financial institutions, but require adoption by U.S. banking regulators. U.S. banking regulators are expected to propose a similar NSFR regulation applicable to U.S. financial institutions in the near future. We expect to meet the NSFR requirement within the regulatory timeline. 

Diversified Funding Sources 
  We fund our assets primarily with a mix of deposits and secured and unsecured liabilities through a centralized, globally coordinated funding strategy. We diversify our funding globally across products, programs, markets, currencies and investor groups. 
  The primary benefits of our centralized funding strategy include greater control, reduced funding costs, wider name recognition by investors and greater flexibility to meet the variable funding requirements of subsidiaries. Where regulations, time zone differences or other business considerations make parent company funding impractical, certain other subsidiaries may issue their own debt. 
  We fund a substantial portion of our lending activities through our deposits, which were   $1.20 trillion   and   $1.12 trillion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Deposits are primarily generated by our   Consumer Banking  ,   GWIM   and   Global Banking   segments. These deposits are diversified by clients, product type and geography, and the majority of our U.S. deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC). We consider a substantial portion of our deposits to be a stable, low-cost and consistent source of funding. We believe this deposit funding is generally less sensitive to interest rate changes, market volatility or changes in our credit ratings than wholesale funding sources. Our lending activities may also be financed through secured borrowings, including credit card securitizations and securitizations with GSEs, the FHA and private-label investors, as well as FHLBs loans. 
  Our trading activities in other regulated entities are primarily funded on a secured basis through securities lending and repurchase agreements and these amounts will vary based on customer activity and market conditions. We believe funding these activities in the secured financing markets is more cost-efficient and less sensitive to changes in our credit ratings than unsecured financing. Repurchase agreements are generally short-term and often overnight. Disruptions in secured financing markets for financial institutions have occurred in prior market cycles which resulted in adverse changes in terms or significant reductions in the availability of such financing. We manage the liquidity risks arising from secured funding by sourcing funding globally from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. For more information on secured financing agreements, see   Note 10   Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We issue long-term unsecured debt in a variety of maturities and currencies to achieve cost-efficient funding and to maintain an appropriate maturity profile. While the cost and availability of unsecured funding may be negatively impacted by general market conditions or by matters specific to the financial services industry or the Corporation, we seek to mitigate refinancing risk by actively managing the amount of our borrowings that we anticipate will mature within any month or quarter. 
  During   2015  , we issued $43.7 billion of long-term debt, consisting of $26.4 billion for Bank of America Corporation, $10.0 billion for Bank of America, N.A. and $7.3 billion of other debt. 

Table 20   presents our long-term debt by major currency at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

Total long-term debt   decreased     $6.4 billion  , or   three percent  , in   2015  , primarily due to the impact of revaluation of non-U.S. Dollar debt and changes in fair value for debt accounted for under the fair value option. These impacts were substantially offset through derivative hedge transactions. Excluding these two factors, total long-term debt remained relatively unchanged in   2015  . We may, from time to time, purchase outstanding debt instruments in various transactions, depending on prevailing market conditions, liquidity and other factors. In addition, our other regulated entities may make markets in our debt instruments to provide liquidity for investors. For more information on long-term debt funding, see   Note 11   Long-term Debt     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We use derivative transactions to manage the duration, interest rate and currency risks of our borrowings, considering the characteristics of the assets they are funding. For further details on our ALM activities, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   on page   97  . 
  We may also issue unsecured debt in the form of structured notes for client purposes. During   2015  , we issued $7.2 billion of structured notes, a majority of which was issued by Bank of America Corporation. Structured notes are debt obligations that pay investors returns linked to other debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. We typically hedge the returns we are obligated to pay on these liabilities with derivatives and/or investments in the underlying instruments, so that from a funding perspective, the cost is similar to our other unsecured long-term debt. We could be required to settle certain structured liability obligations for cash or other securities prior to maturity under certain circumstances, which we consider for liquidity planning purposes. We believe, however, that a portion of such borrowings will remain outstanding beyond the earliest put or redemption date. We had outstanding structured liabilities with a carrying value of $32.6 billion and $38.8 billion at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 
  Substantially all of our senior and subordinated debt obligations contain no provisions that could trigger a requirement for an early repayment, require additional collateral support, result in changes to terms, accelerate maturity or create additional financial obligations upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price. 
  Contingency Planning 
  We maintain contingency funding plans that outline our potential responses to liquidity stress events at various levels of severity. These policies and plans are based on stress scenarios and  

include potential funding strategies and communication and notification procedures that we would implement in the event we experienced stressed liquidity conditions. We periodically review and test the contingency funding plans to validate efficacy and assess readiness. 
  Our U.S. bank subsidiaries can access contingency funding through the Federal Reserve Discount Window. Certain non-U.S. subsidiaries have access to central bank facilities in the jurisdictions in which they operate. While we do not rely on these sources in our liquidity modeling, we maintain the policies, procedures and governance processes that would enable us to access these sources if necessary. 
  Credit Ratings 
  Our borrowing costs and ability to raise funds are impacted by our credit ratings. In addition, credit ratings may be important to customers or counterparties when we compete in certain markets and when we seek to engage in certain transactions, including OTC derivatives. Thus, it is our objective to maintain high-quality credit ratings, and management maintains an active dialogue with the major rating agencies. 
  Credit ratings and outlooks are opinions expressed by rating agencies on our creditworthiness and that of our obligations or securities, including long-term debt, short-term borrowings, preferred stock and other securities, including asset securitizations. Our credit ratings are subject to ongoing review by the rating agencies and they consider a number of factors, including our own financial strength, performance, prospects and operations as well as factors not under our control. The rating agencies could make adjustments to our ratings at any time and they provide no assurances that they will maintain our ratings at current levels. 
  Other factors that influence our credit ratings include changes to the rating agencies  methodologies for our industry or certain security types; the rating agencies  assessment of the general operating environment for financial services companies; our relative positions in the markets in which we compete; our various risk exposures and risk management policies and activities; pending litigation and other contingencies or potential tail risks; our reputation; our liquidity position, diversity of funding sources and funding costs; the current and expected level and volatility of our earnings; our capital position and capital management practices; our corporate governance; the sovereign credit ratings of the U.S. government; current or future regulatory and legislative initiatives; and the agencies  views on whether the U.S. government would provide meaningful support to the Corporation or its subsidiaries in a crisis. 
  On December 8, 2015, Fitch Ratings (Fitch) completed its latest semi-annual review of 12 large, complex securities trading and universal banks, including Bank of America. The agency affirmed all of our ratings and maintained the outlooks it established upon completion of its prior review on May 19, 2015. Following that review, Fitch revised the support rating floors for the U.S. G-SIBs to No Floor from A, effectively removing the implied government support uplift from those institutions  ratings. The rating agency also upgraded Bank of America Corporation s stand-alone rating, or Viability Rating, to  a  from  a- , while affirming its long-term and short-term senior debt ratings at A and F1. Fitch concurrently upgraded Bank of America, N.A. s long-term senior debt rating to A+ from A, and its long-term deposit rating to AA- from A+. Fitch set the outlook on those ratings at stable. Fitch also revised the  

outlook to positive on the ratings of Bank of America s material international operating subsidiaries, including MLI. 
  On December 2, 2015, Standard   Poor s Ratings Services (S P) concluded its review of the ratings of eight U.S. G-SIBs, including Bank of America. Consistent with prior guidance, S P downgraded our holding company long-term senior debt rating to BBB+ from A- due to the removal of the remaining notch of uplift for U.S. government support and revised the outlook to Stable from CreditWatch Negative. The Corporation s short-term ratings were not affected. This action reflected S P s view that extraordinary U.S. government support of the banking system is less likely under the current U.S. resolution framework. S P concurrently left the long-term and short-term senior debt ratings of Bank of America s core rated operating subsidiaries, including Bank of America, N.A., MLPF S, MLI, and Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited, unchanged at A and A-1, respectively. S P eliminated the remaining notch of uplift for potential government support from those entities  senior long-term debt ratings, but the agency subsequently added a notch of uplift upon implementing its new framework for incorporating loss-absorbing  

holding company debt and equity capital buffers into operating subsidiary credit ratings. Those ratings remain on CreditWatch positive pending further clarity on what debt instruments will count toward TLAC requirements. Additionally, S P concluded its CreditWatch Developing on the subordinated debt rating of Bank of America, N.A., which the agency downgraded to BBB+ from A-. 
  On May 28, 2015, Moody s Investors Service, Inc. (Moody s) concluded its previously announced review of several global investment banking groups, including Bank of America, which followed the publication of the agency s new bank rating methodology. Moody s upgraded Bank of America Corporation s long-term senior debt rating to Baa1 from Baa2, and the preferred stock rating to Ba2 from Ba3. Moody s also upgraded the long-term senior debt and long-term deposit ratings of Bank of America, N.A. to A1 from A2. Moody s affirmed the short-term ratings at P-2 for Bank of America Corporation and P-1 for Bank of America, N.A. Moody s now has a stable outlook on all of our ratings. 
  Table 21   presents the Corporation s current long-term/short-term senior debt ratings and outlooks expressed by the rating agencies. 

Table 21 
    Senior Debt Ratings 

Moody     s Investors Service 
      
    Standard   Poor     s 
      
    Fitch Ratings 
        
    Long-term 
      
    Short-term 
      
    Outlook 
      
    Long-term 
      
    Short-term    (1)  
      
    Outlook 
      
    Long-term 
      
    Short-term 
      
    Outlook 
      Bank of America Corporation 
    Baa1 
      
    P-2 
      
    Stable 
      
    BBB+ 
      
    A-2 
      
    Stable 
      
    A 
      
    F1 
      
    Stable 
      Bank of America, N.A. 
    A1 
      
    P-1 
      
    Stable 
      
    A 
      
    A-1 
      
    CreditWatch Positive 
      
    A+ 
      
    F1 
      
    Stable 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith 
    NR 
      
    NR 
      
    NR 
      
    A 
      
    A-1 
      
    CreditWatch Positive 
      
    A+ 
      
    F1 
      
    Stable 
      Merrill Lynch International 
    NR 
      
    NR 
      
    NR 
      
    A 
      
    A-1 
      
    CreditWatch Positive 
      
    A 
      
    F1 
      
    Positive 

(1)   
    S P short-term ratings are not on CreditWatch. 
     NR = not rated 
    A reduction in certain of our credit ratings or the ratings of certain asset-backed securitizations may have a material adverse effect on our liquidity, potential loss of access to credit markets, the related cost of funds, our businesses and on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where counterparty creditworthiness is critical. In addition, under the terms of certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, in the event of downgrades of our or our rated subsidiaries  credit ratings, the counterparties to those agreements may require us to provide additional collateral, or to terminate these contracts or agreements, which could cause us to sustain losses and/or adversely impact our liquidity. If the short-term credit ratings of our parent company, bank or broker-dealer subsidiaries were downgraded by one or more levels, the potential loss of access to short-term funding sources such as repo financing and the effect on our incremental cost of funds could be material. 

While certain potential impacts are contractual and quantifiable, the full scope of the consequences of a credit rating downgrade to a financial institution is inherently uncertain, as it depends upon numerous dynamic, complex and inter-related factors and assumptions, including whether any downgrade of a company s long-term credit ratings precipitates downgrades to its short-term credit ratings, and assumptions about the potential behaviors of various customers, investors and counterparties. For more information on potential impacts of credit rating downgrades, see   Liquidity Risk   Time-to-required Funding and Stress Modeling   on page   61  . 
  For more information on the additional collateral and termination payments that could be required in connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements as a result of such a credit rating downgrade, see   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Credit Risk Management 
  Credit quality remained stable during   2015   driven by lower U.S. unemployment and improving home prices as well as our proactive credit risk management activities positively impacting our credit portfolio as nonperforming loans and delinquencies continued to improve. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   2015 Economic and Business Environment   on page   22  . 
  Credit risk is the risk of loss arising from the inability or failure of a borrower or counterparty to meet its obligations. Credit risk can also arise from operational failures that result in an erroneous advance, commitment or investment of funds. We define the credit exposure to a borrower or counterparty as the loss potential arising from all product classifications including loans and leases, deposit overdrafts, derivatives, assets held-for-sale and unfunded lending commitments which include loan commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees. Derivative positions are recorded at fair value and assets held-for-sale are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Certain loans and unfunded commitments are accounted for under the fair value option. Credit risk for categories of assets carried at fair value is not accounted for as part of the allowance for credit losses but as part of the fair value adjustments recorded in earnings. For derivative positions, our credit risk is measured as the net cost in the event the counterparties with contracts in which we are in a gain position fail to perform under the terms of those contracts. We use the current fair value to represent credit exposure without giving consideration to future mark-to-market changes. The credit risk amounts take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and cash collateral. Our consumer and commercial credit extension and review procedures encompass funded and unfunded credit exposures. For more information on derivatives and credit extension commitments, see   Note 2   Derivatives   and   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

We manage credit risk based on the risk profile of the borrower or counterparty, repayment sources, the nature of underlying collateral, and other support given current events, conditions and expectations. We classify our portfolios as either consumer or commercial and monitor credit risk in each as discussed below. 
  We refine our underwriting and credit risk management practices as well as credit standards to meet the changing economic environment. To mitigate losses and enhance customer support in our consumer businesses, we have in place collection programs and loan modification and customer assistance infrastructures. We utilize a number of actions to mitigate losses in the commercial businesses including increasing the frequency and intensity of portfolio monitoring, hedging activity and our practice of transferring management of deteriorating commercial exposures to independent special asset officers as credits enter criticized categories. 
  We have non-U.S. exposure largely in Europe and Asia Pacific. For more information on our exposures and related risks in non-U.S. countries, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   on page   86   and   Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K  . 
  Utilized energy exposure represents approximately two percent of total loans and leases. For more information on our exposures and related risks in the energy industry, see   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Industry Concentrations   on page   83   and   Table 46  . 
  For more information on our credit risk management activities, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   66  ,   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   77  ,   Non-U.S. Portfolio   on page   86  ,   Provision for Credit Losses   on page   88   and   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   88  ,   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  ,   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases   and   Note 5   Allowance for Credit Losses     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management 
  Credit risk management for the consumer portfolio begins with initial underwriting and continues throughout a borrower s credit cycle. Statistical techniques in conjunction with experiential judgment are used in all aspects of portfolio management including underwriting, product pricing, risk appetite, setting credit limits, and establishing operating processes and metrics to quantify and balance risks and returns. Statistical models are built using detailed behavioral information from external sources such as credit bureaus and/or internal historical experience. These models are a component of our consumer credit risk management process and are used in part to assist in making both new and ongoing credit decisions, as well as portfolio management strategies, including authorizations and line management, collection practices and strategies, and determination of the allowance for loan and lease losses and allocated capital for credit risk. 
  During   2015  , we completed approximately 51,300 customer loan modifications with a total unpaid principal balance of $8.4 billion, including approximately 21,200 permanent modifications, under the U.S. government s Making Home Affordable Program. Of the loan modifications completed in   2015  , in terms of both the volume of modifications and the unpaid principal balance associated with the underlying loans, more than half were in the Corporation s held-for-investment (HFI) portfolio. For modified loans on our balance sheet, these modification types are generally considered troubled debt restructurings (TDR). For more information on TDRs and portfolio impacts, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   75   and   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Consumer Credit Portfolio 
  Improvement in the U.S. unemployment rate and home prices continued during   2015   resulting in improved credit quality and lower credit losses across most major consumer portfolios compared to   2014  . Nearly all consumer loan portfolios 30 and 90 days or more past due declined during   2015   as a result of improved delinquency trends. 
  Improved credit quality, continued loan balance run-off and sales across the consumer portfolio drove a   $2.6 billion     decrease   in the consumer allowance for loan and lease losses in   2015   to   $7.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015  . For additional information, see   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   88  . 
  For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status, charge-offs and TDRs for the consumer portfolio, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . For more information on representations and warranties related to our residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   46   and   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Table 22   presents our outstanding consumer loans and leases, and the PCI loan portfolio. In addition to being included in the  Outstandings  columns in   Table 22  , PCI loans are also shown separately in the  Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio  columns. The impact of the PCI loan portfolio on certain credit statistics is reported where appropriate. For more information on PCI loans, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73   and   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

(4)   
    Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of   $1.6 billion   and   $1.9 billion   and home equity loans of   $250 million   and   $196 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . For more information on the fair value option, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
     n/a = not applicable 

Table 23   presents consumer nonperforming loans and accruing consumer loans past due 90 days or more. Nonperforming loans do not include past due consumer credit card loans, other unsecured loans and in general, consumer non-real estate-secured loans (loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy are included) as these loans are typically charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. Real estate-secured past due consumer loans that are insured by the FHA or individually insured under long-term standby agreements with  

FNMA and FHLMC (collectively, the fully-insured loan portfolio) are reported as accruing as opposed to nonperforming since the principal repayment is insured. Fully-insured loans included in accruing past due 90 days or more are primarily from our repurchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA. Additionally, nonperforming loans and accruing balances past due 90 days or more do not include the PCI loan portfolio or loans accounted for under the fair value option even though the customer may be contractually past due. 

(1)   
    Residential mortgage loans accruing past due 90 days or more are fully-insured loans. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , residential mortgage included   $4.3 billion   and   $7.3 billion   of loans on which interest has been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore are no longer accruing interest, although principal is still insured, and   $2.9 billion   and   $4.1 billion   of loans on which interest was still accruing. 
               (2)   
    Balances exclude consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  ,   $293 million   and   $392 million   of loans accounted for under the fair value option were past due 90 days or more and not accruing interest. 
     n/a = not applicable 
  Table 24   presents net charge-offs and related ratios for consumer loans and leases. 

(1)   
    Net charge-offs exclude write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio. For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
               (2)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       Net charge-off ratios, excluding the PCI and fully-insured loan portfolios, were   0.35 percent   and   (0.08) percent   for residential mortgage,   0.84 percent   and   1.09 percent   for home equity and 0.54 percent and 1.00 percent for the total consumer portfolio for   2015   and   2014  , respectively. These are the only product classifications that include PCI and fully-insured loans. 
  Net charge-offs, as shown in Tables   24   and   25  , exclude write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio of   $634 million   and   $545 million   in  

residential mortgage and   $174 million   and   $265 million   in home equity for   2015   and   2014  . Net charge-off ratios including the PCI write-offs were 0.56 percent and 0.18 percent for residential mortgage and 1.00 percent and 1.31 percent for home equity in   2015   and   2014  . For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 

Table 25   presents outstandings, nonperforming balances, net charge-offs, allowance for loan and lease losses and provision for loan and lease losses for the Core portfolio and the Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolio within the consumer real estate portfolio. For more information on the Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolio, see   LAS   on page   42  . 

(1)   
    Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option include residential mortgage loans of   $1.6 billion   and   $1.9 billion   and home equity loans of   $250 million   and   $196 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . For more information on the fair value option, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
               (2)   
    Net charge-offs exclude write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio. For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
       We believe that the presentation of information adjusted to exclude the impact of the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option is more representative of the ongoing operations and credit quality of the business. As a result, in the following discussions of the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios, we provide information that excludes the impact of the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option in certain credit quality statistics. We separately disclose information on the PCI loan portfolio on page   73  . 
  Residential Mortgage 
  The residential mortgage portfolio makes up the largest percentage of our consumer loan portfolio at 41 percent of consumer loans and leases at   December 31, 2015  . Approximately 58 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio is in   All Other   and is comprised of originated loans, purchased loans used in our overall ALM activities, delinquent FHA loans repurchased pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA as well as loans repurchased related to our representations and warranties. Approximately 30 percent of the residential mortgage portfolio is  

in   GWIM   and represents residential mortgages originated for the home purchase and refinancing needs of our wealth management clients and the remaining portion of the portfolio is primarily in   Consumer Banking  . 
  Outstanding balances in the residential mortgage portfolio, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option,   decreased     $28.3 billion   during   2015   due to loan sales of $24.2 billion and runoff outpacing the retention of new originations. Loan sales primarily included $16.4 billion of loans with standby insurance agreements, $3.1 billion of nonperforming and other delinquent loans and $4.5 billion of loans in consolidated agency residential mortgage securitization vehicles.  
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the residential mortgage portfolio included   $37.1 billion   and   $65.0 billion   of outstanding fully-insured loans. On this portion of the residential mortgage portfolio, we are protected against principal loss as a result of either FHA insurance or long-term standby agreements that provide for the transfer of credit risk to FNMA and FHLMC. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , $33.4 billion and $47.8 billion had FHA insurance with the remainder protected by long-term standby agreements. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , $11.2 billion and  

$15.9 billion of the FHA-insured loan population were repurchases of delinquent FHA loans pursuant to our servicing agreements with GNMA. 
  Table 26   presents certain residential mortgage key credit statistics on both a reported basis excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, and excluding the PCI loan portfolio, our fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option. Additionally, in the  Reported Basis  columns in  

the table below, accruing balances past due and nonperforming loans do not include the PCI loan portfolio, in accordance with our accounting policies, even though the customer may be contractually past due. As such, the following discussion presents the residential mortgage portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio, the fully-insured loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on the PCI loan portfolio, see page   73  . 

(1)   
    Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option.  
                (3)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       Nonperforming residential mortgage loans   decreased     $2.1 billion   in   2015   including sales of $1.5 billion, partially offset by a $261 million net increase related to the DoJ Settlement for those loans that are no longer fully insured. Excluding these items, nonperforming residential mortgage loans decreased as outflows, including the transfers of certain qualifying borrowers discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy to performing status, outpaced new inflows. Of the nonperforming residential mortgage loans at   December 31, 2015  , $1.6 billion, or 34 percent, were current on contractual payments. Nonperforming loans that are contractually current primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR. In addition, $2.0 billion, or 43 percent of nonperforming residential mortgage loans were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or more past due   decreased     $300 million   in   2015  . 
  Net charge-offs increased $587 million to   $473 million   in   2015  , or   0.35 percent   of total average residential mortgage loans, compared to a net recovery of   $114 million  , or   (0.08) percent  , in   2014  . This increase in net charge-offs was primarily driven by $402 million of charge-offs during   2015   related to the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement. In addition, net charge-offs included recoveries of $127 million related to nonperforming loan sales during   2015   compared to $407 million in   2014  . Excluding these items, net charge-offs declined driven by favorable portfolio trends and decreased write-downs on loans greater than 180 days past due, which were written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less costs to sell, due in part to improvement in home prices and the U.S. economy. 
  Residential mortgage loans with a greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent refreshed loan-to-value (LTV)  

represented   five percent   and   six percent   of the residential mortgage portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent represented   four percent   and   seven percent   of the residential mortgage loan portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Of the loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent, 98 percent and 96 percent were performing at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where the outstanding carrying value of the loan is greater than the most recent valuation of the property securing the loan. The majority of these loans have a refreshed LTV greater than 100 percent primarily due to home price deterioration since 2006, partially offset by subsequent appreciation. Loans to borrowers with refreshed FICO scores below 620 represented   six percent   and   eight percent   of the residential mortgage portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 
  Of the   $138.8 billion   in total residential mortgage loans outstanding at   December 31, 2015  , as shown in   Table 27  , 39 percent were originated as interest-only loans. The outstanding balance of interest-only residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period was $12.0 billion, or 22 percent at   December 31, 2015  . Residential mortgage loans that have entered the amortization period generally have experienced a higher rate of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status compared to the residential mortgage portfolio as a whole. At   December 31, 2015  , $214 million, or two percent of outstanding interest-only residential mortgages that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more compared to   $1.6 billion  , or   one percent   for the entire residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, at   December 31, 2015  , $712 million, or six percent of outstanding interest-only residential mortgage loans that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming, of which $348 million were contractually current,  

compared to   $4.8 billion  , or   three percent   for the entire residential mortgage portfolio, of which $1.6 billion were contractually current. Loans that have yet to enter the amortization period in our interest-only residential mortgage portfolio are primarily well-collateralized loans to our wealth management clients and have an interest-only period of three to ten years. Approximately 75 percent of these loans that have yet to enter the amortization period will not be required to make a fully-amortizing payment until 2019 or later. 
  Table 27   presents outstandings, nonperforming loans and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the residential mortgage portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana  

Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA) within California represented 14 percent and 13 percent of outstandings at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Loans within this MSA contributed net recoveries of $13 million and $81 million within the residential mortgage portfolio during   2015   and   2014  . In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 11 percent of outstandings at both   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Loans within this MSA contributed net charge-offs of $101 million and $27 million within the residential mortgage portfolio during   2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $634 million   of write-offs in the residential mortgage PCI loan portfolio in   2015   compared to   $545 million   in   2014  . For additional information, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
               (3)   
    In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states). 
               (4)   
    Amounts exclude the PCI residential mortgage and fully-insured loan portfolios. 
               (5)   
    Forty-seven percent and 45 percent of PCI residential mortgage loans were in California at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . There were no other significant single state concentrations. 
       The Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) encourages banks to meet the credit needs of their communities for housing and other purposes, particularly in neighborhoods with low or moderate incomes. Our CRA portfolio was $8.0 billion and $9.0 billion at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , or six percent and seven percent of the residential mortgage portfolio. The CRA portfolio included $552 million and $986 million of nonperforming loans at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , representing 11 percent and 14 percent of total nonperforming residential mortgage loans. In   2015  , net charge-offs in the CRA portfolio were $85 million of the $473 million total net charge-offs for the residential mortgage portfolio. In   2014  , net charge-offs in the CRA portfolio were $52 million compared to net recoveries of $114 million for the residential mortgage portfolio. 
    
    Home Equity 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the home equity portfolio made up   17 percent   of the consumer portfolio and is comprised of home equity lines of credit (HELOCs), home equity loans and reverse mortgages. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , our HELOC portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $66.1 billion  , or 87 percent of the total home equity portfolio compared to $74.2 billion, or 87 percent, at   December 31, 2014  . HELOCs generally have an initial draw period of 10 years and the borrowers typically are only required to pay the interest due on the loans on a monthly basis. After the initial draw period ends, the loans generally convert to 15-year amortizing loans. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , our home equity loan portfolio had an outstanding balance of   $7.9 billion  , or 10 percent of the total home  

equity portfolio compared to $9.8 billion, or 11 percent, at   December 31, 2014  . Home equity loans are almost all fixed-rate loans with amortizing payment terms of 10 to 30 years and of the   $7.9 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , 54 percent have 25- to 30-year terms. At   December 31, 2015  , our reverse mortgage portfolio had an outstanding balance, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, of   $2.0 billion  , or three percent of the total home equity portfolio compared to $1.7 billion, or two percent, at   December 31, 2014  . We no longer originate reverse mortgages.  
  At   December 31, 2015  , approximately 56 percent of the home equity portfolio was included in   Consumer Banking  , 34 percent was included in   LAS   and the remainder of the portfolio was primarily in   GWIM  . Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option,   decreased     $9.8 billion   in   2015   primarily due to paydowns and charge-offs outpacing new originations and draws on existing lines. Of the total home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  ,   $20.3 billion   and $20.6 billion, or   27 percent   and 24 percent, were in first-lien positions (  28 percent   and 26 percent excluding the PCI home equity portfolio). At   December 31, 2015  , outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio that were in a second-lien or more junior-lien position and where we also held the first-lien loan totaled $12.9 billion, or 18 percent of our total home equity portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio. 
  Unused HELOCs totaled   $50.3 billion   and   $53.7 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The   decrease   was primarily due to customers choosing to close accounts, as well as accounts reaching the end of their draw period, which automatically eliminates open line exposure. Both of these more than offset customer paydowns of principal balances and the impact of new  

production. The HELOC utilization rate was 57 percent and 58 percent at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 
  Table 28   presents certain home equity portfolio key credit statistics on both a reported basis excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, and excluding the PCI loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option. Additionally, in the  Reported Basis  columns in the table below, accruing  

balances past due 30 days or more and nonperforming loans do not include the PCI loan portfolio, in accordance with our accounting policies, even though the customer may be contractually past due. As such, the following discussion presents the home equity portfolio excluding the PCI loan portfolio and loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on the PCI loan portfolio, see page   73  . 

(1)   
    Outstandings, accruing past due, nonperforming loans and percentages of the portfolio exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
                 (4)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       Nonperforming outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio   decreased     $564 million   in   2015   as outflows, including sales of $154 million and the transfer of certain qualifying borrowers discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy to performing status, outpaced new inflows. Of the nonperforming home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2015  , $1.4 billion, or 42 percent, were current on contractual payments. Nonperforming loans that are contractually current primarily consist of collateral-dependent TDRs, including those that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, junior-lien loans where the underlying first-lien is 90 days or more past due, as well as loans that have not yet demonstrated a sustained period of payment performance following a TDR. In addition, $1.3 billion, or 38 percent of nonperforming home equity loans, were 180 days or more past due and had been written down to the estimated fair value of the collateral, less costs to sell. Accruing loans that were 30 days or more past due   decreased     $27 million   in   2015  . 
  In some cases, the junior-lien home equity outstanding balance that we hold is performing, but the underlying first-lien is not. For outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio on which we service the first-lien loan, we are able to track whether the first-lien loan is in default. For loans where the first-lien is serviced by a third party, we utilize credit bureau data to estimate the delinquency status of the first-lien. Given that the credit bureau database we use does not include a property address for the mortgages, we are unable to identify with certainty whether a reported delinquent first-lien mortgage pertains to the same property for which we hold a junior-lien loan. For certain loans, we utilize a third-party vendor to combine credit bureau and public record data to better link a junior-lien loan with the underlying first-lien mortgage. At   December 31, 2015  , we estimate that $1.2 billion of current and $157 million of 30 to 89 days past due junior-lien loans were behind a delinquent first-lien loan. We service the first-lien loans on $193 million of these combined amounts, with  

the remaining $1.1 billion serviced by third parties. Of the $1.3 billion of current to 89 days past due junior-lien loans, based on available credit bureau data and our own internal servicing data, we estimate that $484 million had first-lien loans that were 90 days or more past due.  
  Net charge-offs   decreased     $271 million   to   $636 million  , or   0.84 percent   of the total average home equity portfolio in   2015  , compared to   $907 million  , or   1.09 percent  , in   2014  . The   decrease   in net charge-offs was primarily driven by favorable portfolio trends due in part to improvement in home prices and the U.S. economy, and lower charge-offs related to the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement, partially offset by lower recoveries. 
  Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio with greater than 90 percent but less than or equal to 100 percent refreshed combined loan-to-value (CLTV) comprised   six percent   and   seven percent   of the home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Outstanding balances with refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent comprised   11 percent   and   14 percent   of the home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent reflect loans where our loan and available line of credit combined with any outstanding senior liens against the property are equal to or greater than the most recent valuation of the property securing the loan. Depending on the value of the property, there may be collateral in excess of the first-lien that is available to reduce the severity of loss on the second-lien. Of those outstanding balances with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent, 96 percent of the customers were current on their home equity loan and 92 percent of second-lien loans with a refreshed CLTV greater than 100 percent were current on both their second-lien and underlying first-lien loans at   December 31, 2015  . Outstanding balances in the home equity portfolio to borrowers with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented  

seven percent   of the home equity portfolio at both   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 
  Of the   $71.3 billion   in total home equity portfolio outstandings at   December 31, 2015  , as shown in   Table 29  , 66 percent were interest-only loans, almost all of which were HELOCs. The outstanding balance of HELOCs that have entered the amortization period was $9.7 billion, or 15 percent of total HELOCs at   December 31, 2015  . The HELOCs that have entered the amortization period have experienced a higher percentage of early stage delinquencies and nonperforming status when compared to the HELOC portfolio as a whole. At   December 31, 2015  , $226 million, or two percent of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were accruing past due 30 days or more compared to $561 million, or one percent for the entire HELOC portfolio. In addition, at   December 31, 2015  , $1.3 billion, or 14 percent of outstanding HELOCs that had entered the amortization period were nonperforming, of which $507 million were contractually current, compared to $3.1 billion, or five percent for the entire HELOC portfolio, of which $1.2 billion were contractually current. Loans in our HELOC portfolio generally have an initial draw period of 10 years and   44 percent   of these loans will enter the amortization period in 2016 and 2017 and will be required to make fully-amortizing payments. We communicate to contractually current customers more than a year prior to the end of their draw  

period to inform them of the potential change to the payment structure before entering the amortization period, and provide payment options to customers prior to the end of the draw period. 
  Although we do not actively track how many of our home equity customers pay only the minimum amount due on their home equity loans and lines, we can infer some of this information through a review of our HELOC portfolio that we service and that is still in its revolving period (i.e., customers may draw on and repay their line of credit, but are generally only required to pay interest on a monthly basis). During   2015  , approximately 39 percent of these customers with an outstanding balance did not pay any principal on their HELOCs. 
  Table 29   presents outstandings, nonperforming balances and net charge-offs by certain state concentrations for the home equity portfolio. In the New York area, the New York-Northern New Jersey-Long Island MSA made up 13 percent and 12 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Loans within this MSA contributed 13 percent and 14 percent of net charge-offs in   2015   and   2014   within the home equity portfolio. The Los Angeles-Long Beach-Santa Ana MSA within California made up 12 percent of the outstanding home equity portfolio at both   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Loans within this MSA contributed two percent and four percent of net charge-offs in   2015   and   2014   within the home equity portfolio. 

(1)   
    Outstandings and nonperforming loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $174 million   of write-offs in the home equity PCI loan portfolio in   2015   compared to   $265 million   in   2014  . For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
               (3)   
    In these states, foreclosure requires a court order following a legal proceeding (judicial states).  
               (4)   
    Amount excludes the PCI home equity portfolio. 
               (5)   
    Twenty-nine percent of PCI home equity loans were in California at both   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . There were no other significant single state concentrations. 

Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio 
  Loans acquired with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination and for which it is probable at purchase that we will be unable to collect all contractually required payments are accounted for under the accounting guidance for PCI loans, which addresses accounting for differences between contractual and expected cash flows to be collected from the purchaser s initial investment in loans if those differences are attributable, at least in part, to credit  

quality. For more information on PCI loans, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Table 30   presents the unpaid principal balance, carrying value, related valuation allowance and the net carrying value as a percentage of the unpaid principal balance for the PCI loan portfolio. 

The total PCI unpaid principal balance   decreased     $4.3 billion  , or   20 percent  , in   2015   primarily driven by sales, payoffs, paydowns and write-offs. During   2015  , we sold PCI loans with a carrying value of $1.4 billion compared to sales of $1.9 billion in   2014  . 
  Of the unpaid principal balance of   $17.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , $14.7 billion, or 86 percent, was current based on the contractual terms, $1.2 billion, or seven percent, was in early stage delinquency, and $800 million was 180 days or more past due, including $707 million of first-lien mortgages and $93 million of home equity loans. 
  During   2015  , we recorded a provision   benefit   of   $40 million   for the PCI loan portfolio which included an expense of $92 million for residential mortgage and a benefit of $132 million for home equity. This compared to a total provision   benefit   of   $31 million   in   2014  . The provision   benefit   in   2015   was primarily driven by lower default estimates.  
  The PCI valuation allowance   declined     $848 million   during   2015   due to write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio of   $634 million   in residential mortgage and   $174 million   in home equity, combined with a provision   benefit   of   $40 million  . 
  Purchased Credit-impaired Residential Mortgage Loan Portfolio 
  The PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio represented   72 percent   of the total PCI loan portfolio at   December 31, 2015  . Those loans to borrowers with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented 31 percent of the PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio at   December 31, 2015  . Loans with a refreshed LTV greater than 90 percent, after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the related valuation allowance, represented 28 percent of the PCI residential mortgage loan portfolio and 33 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2015  .  
  Pay option adjustable-rate mortgages, which are included in the PCI residential mortgage portfolio, have interest rates that adjust monthly and minimum required payments that adjust annually. During an initial five- or ten-year period, minimum required  

payments may increase by no more than 7.5 percent. If payments are insufficient to pay all of the monthly interest charges, unpaid interest is added to the loan balance (i.e., negative amortization) until the loan balance increases to a specified limit, at which time a new monthly payment amount adequate to repay the loan over its remaining contractual life is established. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the unpaid principal balance of pay option loans was $2.4 billion, with a carrying value of $2.3 billion. The total unpaid principal balance of pay option loans with accumulated negative amortization was $503 million, including $28 million of negative amortization. We believe the majority of borrowers that are now making scheduled payments are able to do so primarily because the low rate environment has caused the fully indexed rates to be affordable to more borrowers. We continue to evaluate our exposure to payment resets on the acquired negative-amortizing loans and have taken into consideration several assumptions including prepayment and default rates. Of the loans in the pay option portfolio at   December 31, 2015   that have not already experienced a payment reset, 54 percent are expected to reset in 2016 and 22 percent are expected to reset thereafter. In addition, four percent are expected to prepay and approximately 20 percent are expected to default prior to being reset, most of which were severely delinquent as of   December 31, 2015  . We no longer originate pay option loans. 
  Purchased Credit-impaired Home Equity Loan Portfolio 
  The PCI home equity portfolio represented   28 percent   of the total PCI loan portfolio at   December 31, 2015  . Those loans with a refreshed FICO score below 620 represented 16 percent of the PCI home equity portfolio at   December 31, 2015  . Loans with a refreshed CLTV greater than 90 percent, after consideration of purchase accounting adjustments and the related valuation allowance, represented 57 percent of the PCI home equity portfolio and 60 percent based on the unpaid principal balance at   December 31, 2015  .  

U.S. Credit Card 
  At   December 31, 2015  , 97 percent of the U.S. credit card portfolio was managed in   Consumer Banking   with the remainder managed in   GWIM  . Outstandings in the U.S. credit card portfolio   decreased     $2.3 billion   in   2015   due to portfolio divestitures. Net charge-offs   decreased     $324 million   to   $2.3 billion   in   2015   due to improvements in delinquencies and bankruptcies as a result of an improved economic environment and the impact of higher credit quality originations. U.S. credit card loans 30 days or more past due and still accruing interest   decreased     $126 million   while loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing interest   decreased     $77 million   in   2015   as a result of the factors mentioned above that contributed to lower net charge-offs.  
  Unused lines of credit for U.S. credit card totaled $312.5 billion and $305.9 billion at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The $6.6 billion increase was driven by account growth and line of credit increases. 

Table 31   presents certain key credit statistics for the U.S. credit card portfolio. 

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans. 
     Table 32   presents certain state concentrations for the U.S. credit card portfolio. 

Non-U.S. Credit Card 
  Outstandings in the non-U.S. credit card portfolio, which are recorded in   All Other  ,   decreased     $490 million   in   2015   due to a weakening of the British Pound against the U.S. Dollar. Net charge-offs   decreased     $54 million   to   $188 million   in   2015   due to improvement in delinquencies as a result of higher credit quality originations and an improved economic environment.  
  Unused lines of credit for non-U.S. credit card totaled $27.9 billion and $28.2 billion at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The $271 million decrease was driven by weakening of the British Pound against the U.S. Dollar, partially offset by account growth and lines of credit increases. 

Table 33   presents certain key credit statistics for the non-U.S. credit card portfolio. 
   
  (1)    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans. 

Direct/Indirect Consumer 
  At   December 31, 2015  , approximately 50 percent of the direct/indirect portfolio was included in   GWIM   (principally securities-based lending loans), 49 percent was included in   Consumer Banking   (consumer auto and specialty lending   automotive, marine, aircraft, recreational vehicle loans and consumer personal loans) and the remainder was primarily student loans in   All Other  . 
  Outstandings in the direct/indirect portfolio   increased     $8.4 billion   in   2015   as growth in the consumer auto portfolio and growth in securities-based lending were partially offset by lower outstandings in the unsecured consumer lending portfolio.  
  Net charge-offs   decreased     $57 million   to   $112 million   in   2015  , or   0.13 percent   of total average direct/indirect loans, compared  

to   $169 million  , or   0.20 percent  , in   2014  . This   decrease   in net charge-offs was primarily driven by improvements in delinquencies and bankruptcies in the unsecured consumer lending portfolio as a result of an improved economic environment as well as reduced outstandings in this portfolio. 
  Direct/indirect loans that were past due 90 days or more and still accruing interest declined   $25 million   to   $39 million   in   2015   due to decreases in the unsecured consumer lending, and consumer auto and specialty lending portfolios. 
  Table 34   presents certain state concentrations for the direct/indirect consumer loan portfolio. 

Other Consumer 
  At   December 31, 2015  , approximately 66 percent of the   $2.1 billion   other consumer portfolio was consumer auto leases included in   Consumer Banking.   The remainder is primarily associated with certain consumer finance businesses that we previously exited. 
    Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity 
  Table 35   presents nonperforming consumer loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during   2015   and   2014  . Nonperforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming loans as they are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. Nonperforming loans do not include past due consumer credit card loans, other unsecured loans and in general, consumer non-real estate-secured loans (loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy are included) as these loans are typically charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. The charge-offs on these loans have no impact on nonperforming activity and, accordingly, are excluded from this table. The fully-insured loan portfolio is not reported as nonperforming as principal repayment is insured. Additionally, nonperforming loans do not include the PCI loan portfolio or loans accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on nonperforming loans, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . During   2015  , nonperforming consumer loans   declined     $2.7 billion   to   $8.2 billion   and included the impact of sales of   $1.7 billion  , partially offset by a net increase of $186 million related to the impact of the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement for those loans that are no longer fully insured. Excluding these, nonperforming loans declined as outflows, including the transfer  

of certain qualifying borrowers discharged in a Chapter 7 bankruptcy to performing status, outpaced new inflows. 
  The outstanding balance of a real estate-secured loan that is in excess of the estimated property value less costs to sell is charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due unless repayment of the loan is fully insured. At   December 31, 2015  , $3.8 billion, or 44 percent of nonperforming consumer real estate loans and foreclosed properties had been written down to their estimated property value less costs to sell, including $3.3 billion of nonperforming loans 180 days or more past due and $444 million of foreclosed properties. In addition, at   December 31, 2015  , $3.0 billion, or 35 percent of nonperforming consumer loans were modified and are now current after successful trial periods, or are current loans classified as nonperforming loans in accordance with applicable policies. 
  Foreclosed properties   decreased     $186 million   in   2015   as liquidations outpaced additions. PCI loans are excluded from nonperforming loans as these loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date; however, once the underlying real estate is acquired by the Corporation upon foreclosure of the delinquent PCI loan, it is included in foreclosed properties. PCI-related foreclosed properties increased $39 million in   2015  . Not included in foreclosed properties at   December 31, 2015   was $1.4 billion of real estate that was acquired upon foreclosure of certain delinquent government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans). We exclude these amounts from our nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties activity as we expect we will be reimbursed once the property is conveyed to the guarantor for principal and, up to certain limits, costs incurred during the foreclosure process and interest incurred during the holding period.  

Restructured Loans 
  Nonperforming loans also include certain loans that have been modified in TDRs where economic concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. These concessions typically result from the Corporation s loss mitigation activities and could include reductions in the interest rate, payment extensions,  

forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions. Certain TDRs are classified as nonperforming at the time of restructuring and may only be returned to performing status after considering the borrower s sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period, generally six months. Nonperforming TDRs, excluding those modified loans in the PCI loan portfolio, are included in   Table 35  . 

(1)   
    Balances do not include nonperforming LHFS of   $5 million   and   $7 million   and nonaccruing TDRs removed from the PCI loan portfolio prior to January 1, 2010 of   $38 million   and   $102 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   as well as loans accruing past due 90 days or more as presented in   Table 23   and   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
               (2)   
    Consumer loans may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. 
               (3)   
    New foreclosed properties represents transfers of nonperforming loans to foreclosed properties net of charge-offs taken during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. New foreclosed properties also includes properties obtained upon foreclosure of delinquent PCI loans, properties repurchased due to representations and warranties exposure and properties acquired with newly consolidated subsidiaries. 
                (5)   
    Foreclosed property balances do not include properties insured by certain government-guaranteed loans, principally FHA-insured loans, of   $1.4 billion   and   $1.1 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  .  
               (6)   
    Outstanding consumer loans and leases exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       Our policy is to record any losses in the value of foreclosed properties as a reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. Thereafter, further losses in value as well as gains and losses on sale are recorded in noninterest expense. New foreclosed properties included in   Table 35   are net of $162 million and $191 million of charge-offs and write-offs of PCI loans in   2015   and   2014  , recorded during the first 90 days after transfer.  

We classify junior-lien home equity loans as nonperforming when the first-lien loan becomes 90 days past due even if the junior-lien loan is performing. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  ,   $484 million   and   $800 million   of such junior-lien home equity loans were included in nonperforming loans and leases. This decline was driven by overall portfolio improvement as well as $75 million of charge-offs related to the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement. 

Table 36   presents TDRs for the consumer real estate portfolio. Performing TDR balances are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases in   Table 35  . 

In addition to modifying consumer real estate loans, we work with customers who are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying credit card and other consumer loans. Credit card and other consumer loan modifications generally involve a reduction in the customer s interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding 60 months, all of which are considered TDRs (the renegotiated TDR portfolio). In addition, the accounts of non-U.S. credit card customers who do not qualify for a fixed payment plan may have their interest rates reduced, as required by certain local jurisdictions. These modifications, which are also TDRs, tend to experience higher payment default rates given that the borrowers may lack the ability to repay even with the interest rate reduction. In all cases, the customer s available line of credit is canceled. 
  Modifications of credit card and other consumer loans are primarily made through internal renegotiation programs utilizing direct customer contact, but may also utilize external renegotiation programs. The renegotiated TDR portfolio is excluded in large part from   Table 35   as substantially all of the loans remain on accrual status until either charged off or paid in full. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , our renegotiated TDR portfolio was   $779 million   and   $1.1 billion  , of which   $635 million   and   $907 million   were current or less than 30 days past due under the modified terms. The   decline   in the renegotiated TDR portfolio was primarily driven by paydowns and charge-offs as well as lower program enrollments. For more information on the renegotiated TDR portfolio, see   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
    Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management 
  Credit risk management for the commercial portfolio begins with an assessment of the credit risk profile of the borrower or counterparty based on an analysis of its financial position. As part of the overall credit risk assessment, our commercial credit exposures are assigned a risk rating and are subject to approval based on defined credit approval standards. Subsequent to loan origination, risk ratings are monitored on an ongoing basis, and if necessary, adjusted to reflect changes in the financial condition, cash flow, risk profile or outlook of a borrower or counterparty. In making credit decisions, we consider risk rating, collateral, country, industry and single name concentration limits while also balancing this with the total borrower or counterparty relationship. Our business and risk management personnel use a variety of tools to continuously monitor the ability of a borrower or counterparty to perform under its obligations. We use risk rating aggregations to measure and evaluate concentrations within portfolios. In  

addition, risk ratings are a factor in determining the level of allocated capital and the allowance for credit losses. 
  As part of our ongoing risk mitigation initiatives, we attempt to work with clients experiencing financial difficulty to modify their loans to terms that better align with their current ability to pay. In situations where an economic concession has been granted to a borrower experiencing financial difficulty, we identify these loans as TDRs. For more information on our accounting policies regarding delinquencies, nonperforming status and net charge-offs for the commercial portfolio, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Management of Commercial Credit Risk Concentrations 
  Commercial credit risk is evaluated and managed with the goal that concentrations of credit exposure do not result in undesirable levels of risk. We review, measure and manage concentrations of credit exposure by industry, product, geography, customer relationship and loan size. We also review, measure and manage commercial real estate loans by geographic location and property type. In addition, within our non-U.S. portfolio, we evaluate exposures by region and by country. Tables   41  ,   46  ,   52   and   53   summarize our concentrations. We also utilize syndications of exposure to third parties, loan sales, hedging and other risk mitigation techniques to manage the size and risk profile of the commercial credit portfolio. For more information on our industry concentrations, including our utilized exposure to the energy sector which was two percent of total loans and leases at   December 31, 2015  , see   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Industry Concentrations   on page   83   and   Table 46  . 
  We account for certain large corporate loans and loan commitments, including issued but unfunded letters of credit which are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes, that exceed our single name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored, and as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with the Corporation s credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. In addition, we purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain other credit exposures. To lessen the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, credit exposure may be added within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for treatment as accounting hedges.  

They are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss). 
  In addition, the Corporation is a member of various securities and derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other countries. As a member, the Corporation may be required to pay a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations as a result of another member default and under other loss scenarios. For additional information, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Commercial Credit Portfolio 
  During   2015  , credit quality among large corporate borrowers remained stable except in the energy sector which experienced some deterioration due to the sustained drop in oil prices. Credit quality of commercial real estate borrowers continued to improve as property valuations increased and vacancy rates remained low. 
  Outstanding commercial loans and leases   increased     $54.0 billion  , primarily in U.S. commercial, non-U.S. commercial and  

commercial real estate. Nonperforming commercial loans and leases   increased     $112 million   during   2015  . Nonperforming commercial loans and leases as a percentage of outstanding loans and leases, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option, decreased during   2015   to   0.27 percent   from   0.29 percent   at   December 31, 2014  . Reservable criticized balances   increased     $4.9 billion   to   $16.5 billion   during   2015   as a result of downgrades outpacing paydowns and upgrades. The   increase   in reservable criticized balances was primarily due to our energy exposure as the credit quality of certain borrowers was impacted by the sustained drop in oil prices. The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio   increased     $412 million   to   $4.8 billion   at   December 31, 2015   compared to   December 31, 2014  . For additional information, see   Allowance for Credit Losses   on page   88  . 
  Table 37   presents our commercial loans and leases portfolio, and related credit quality information at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(2)   
    Includes card-related products. 
               (3)   
    Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option include U.S. commercial loans of   $2.3 billion   and   $1.9 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $2.8 billion   and   $4.7 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . For more information on the fair value option, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
     Table 38   presents net charge-offs and related ratios for our commercial loans and leases for   2015   and   2014  . The increase in net charge-offs of   $110 million   in   2015   was primarily related to higher recoveries in commercial real estate in   2014   and higher energy sector related losses in   2015  . 

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans and leases excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 

Table 39   presents commercial credit exposure by type for utilized, unfunded and total binding committed credit exposure. Commercial utilized credit exposure includes SBLCs and financial guarantees, bankers  acceptances and commercial letters of credit for which we are legally bound to advance funds under prescribed conditions, during a specified time period. Although funds have not yet been advanced, these exposure types are considered utilized for credit risk management purposes.  

Total commercial utilized credit exposure   increased     $52.9 billion   in   2015   primarily driven by growth in loans and leases. The utilization rate for loans and leases, SBLCs and financial guarantees, commercial letters of credit and bankers acceptances, in the aggregate, was   56 percent   and   57 percent   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(3)   
    Excludes unused business card lines which are not legally binding. 
               (4)   
    Derivative assets are carried at fair value, reflect the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by cash collateral of   $41.9 billion   and   $47.3 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Not reflected in utilized and committed exposure is additional non-cash derivative collateral held of   $23.3 billion   and   $23.8 billion   which consists primarily of other marketable securities. 
       Table 40   presents commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure by loan type. Criticized exposure corresponds to the Special Mention, Substandard and Doubtful asset categories as defined by regulatory authorities. Total commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure   increased     $4.9 billion  , or   43  

percent  , in   2015   driven by downgrades primarily related to our energy exposure outpacing paydowns and upgrades. Approximately 78 percent and 87 percent of commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure was secured at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(2)   
    Percentages are calculated as commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure divided by total commercial utilized reservable exposure for each exposure category. 
       U.S. Commercial 
  At   December 31, 2015  , 70 percent of the U.S. commercial loan portfolio, excluding small business, was managed in   Global Banking,   17 percent in   Global Markets  , 10 percent in   GWIM   (generally business-purpose loans for high net worth clients) and the remainder primarily in   Consumer Banking  . U.S. commercial  

loans, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option,   increased     $32.5 billion  , or   15 percent  , during   2015   due to growth across all of the commercial businesses. Nonperforming loans and leases   increased     $166 million  , or   24 percent  , in   2015  , largely related to our energy exposure. Net charge-offs   increased     $51 million   to   $139 million   during   2015  . 

Commercial Real Estate 
  Commercial real estate primarily includes commercial loans and leases secured by non-owner-occupied real estate and is dependent on the sale or lease of the real estate as the primary source of repayment. The portfolio remains diversified across property types and geographic regions. California represented the largest state concentration at   21 percent   and   22 percent   of the commercial real estate loans and leases portfolio at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The commercial real estate portfolio is predominantly managed in   Global Banking   and consists of loans made primarily to public and private developers, and commercial real estate firms. Outstanding loans   increased     $9.5 billion  , or   20 percent  , during   2015   due to new originations primarily in major metropolitan markets. 
  During   2015  , we continued to see improvements in credit quality in both the residential and non-residential portfolios. We  

use a number of proactive risk mitigation initiatives to reduce adversely rated exposure in the commercial real estate portfolio including transfers of deteriorating exposures to management by independent special asset officers and the pursuit of loan restructurings or asset sales to achieve the best results for our customers and the Corporation. 
  Nonperforming commercial real estate loans and foreclosed properties   decreased     $280 million  , or   72 percent  , and reservable criticized balances   decreased     $595 million  , or   54 percent  , during   2015  . The   decrease   in reservable criticized balances was primarily due to loan resolutions and strong commercial real estate fundamentals throughout the year. Net recoveries were   $5 million   in   2015   compared to net recoveries of   $83 million   in   2014  . 
  Table 41   presents outstanding commercial real estate loans by geographic region, based on the geographic location of the collateral, and by property type. 

(1)   
    Includes unsecured loans to real estate investment trusts and national home builders whose portfolios of properties span multiple geographic regions and properties in the states of Colorado, Utah, Hawaii, Wyoming and Montana. 

Tables   42   and   43   present commercial real estate credit quality data by non-residential and residential property types. The residential portfolio presented in Tables   41  ,   42   and   43   includes  

condominiums and other residential real estate. Other property types in Tables   41  ,   42   and   43   primarily include special purpose, nursing/retirement homes, medical facilities and restaurants. 

(2)   
    Includes loans, SBLCs and bankers  acceptances and excludes loans accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Net charge-off ratios are calculated as net charge-offs divided by average outstanding loans excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
       At   December 31, 2015  , total committed non-residential exposure was $81.0 billion compared to $67.7 billion at   December 31, 2014  , of which $55.1 billion and $46.0 billion were funded loans. Non-residential nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties   declined     $272 million  , or   74 percent  , to   $94 million   during   2015   primarily due to a decrease in office property. The non-residential nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties represented 0.17 percent and 0.79 percent of total non-residential loans and foreclosed properties at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . Non-residential utilized reservable criticized exposure   decreased     $578 million  , or   54 percent  , to   $502 million   at   December 31, 2015   compared to   $1.1 billion   at   December 31, 2014  , which represented 0.89 percent and 2.27 percent of non-residential utilized reservable exposure. For the non-residential portfolio, net recoveries   decreased     $68 million   to   $7 million   in   2015   compared to   2014  . 
  At   December 31, 2015  , total committed residential exposure was $4.1 billion compared to $3.6 billion at   December 31, 2014  ,  

of which $2.1 billion and $1.7 billion were funded secured loans. Residential nonperforming loans and foreclosed properties   decreased     $8 million  , or   36 percent  , and residential utilized reservable criticized exposure   decreased     $17 million  , or   61 percent  , during   2015  . The nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties and the utilized reservable criticized ratios for the residential portfolio were 0.66 percent and 0.52 percent at   December 31, 2015   compared to 1.28 percent and 1.51 percent at   December 31, 2014  .  
  At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the commercial real estate loan portfolio included $7.6 billion and $6.7 billion of funded construction and land development loans that were originated to fund the construction and/or rehabilitation of commercial properties. Reservable criticized construction and land development loans totaled $108 million and $164 million, and nonperforming construction and land development loans and foreclosed properties totaled $44 million and $80 million at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . During a property s construction  

phase, interest income is typically paid from interest reserves that are established at the inception of the loan. As construction is completed and the property is put into service, these interest reserves are depleted and interest payments from operating cash flows begin. We do not recognize interest income on nonperforming loans regardless of the existence of an interest reserve. 
  Non-U.S. Commercial 
  At   December 31, 2015  , 74 percent of the non-U.S. commercial loan portfolio was managed in   Global Banking   and 26 percent in   Global Markets  . Outstanding loans, excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option,   increased     $11.5 billion   in   2015   primarily due to growth in securitization finance on consumer loans and increased corporate demand. Net charge-offs   increased     $20 million   to   $54 million   in   2015  . For more information on the non-U.S. commercial portfolio, see   Non-U.S. Portfolio   on page   86  . 
  U.S. Small Business Commercial 
  The U.S. small business commercial loan portfolio is comprised of small business card loans and small business loans managed in   Consumer Banking  . Credit card-related products were 45 percent and 43 percent of the U.S. small business commercial portfolio at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . Net charge-offs   decreased     $57 million   to   $225 million   in   2015   primarily driven by improvement  

in small business card loan delinquencies, a reduction in higher risk vintages and increased recoveries from the sale of previously charged-off loans. Of the U.S. small business commercial net charge-offs, 81 percent and 73 percent were credit card-related products in   2015   and   2014  . 
  Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity 
  Table 44   presents the nonperforming commercial loans, leases and foreclosed properties activity during   2015   and   2014  . Nonperforming loans do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. During   2015  , nonperforming commercial loans and leases   increased     $99 million   to   $1.2 billion   primarily due to energy sector related exposure. The decline in foreclosed properties of   $52 million   in   2015   was primarily due to the sale of properties. Approximately 88 percent of commercial nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties were secured and approximately 69 percent were contractually current. Commercial nonperforming loans were carried at approximately 85 percent of their unpaid principal balance before consideration of the allowance for loan and lease losses as the carrying value of these loans has been reduced to the estimated property value less costs to sell. 

(2)   
    Includes U.S. small business commercial activity. Small business card loans are excluded as they are not classified as nonperforming. 
               (3)   
    Commercial loans and leases may be returned to performing status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. TDRs are generally classified as performing after a sustained period of demonstrated payment performance. 
               (4)   
    New foreclosed properties represents transfers of nonperforming loans to foreclosed properties net of charge-offs recorded during the first 90 days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. 
               (5)   
    Outstanding commercial loans exclude loans accounted for under the fair value option. 

Table 45   presents our commercial TDRs by product type and performing status. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans and small business loans. The renegotiated small business card loans are  

not classified as nonperforming as they are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 180 days past due. For more information on TDRs, see   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Industry Concentrations 
  Table 46   presents commercial committed and utilized credit exposure by industry and the total net credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portions of certain credit exposures. Our commercial credit exposure is diversified across a broad range of industries. Total commercial committed credit exposure   increased     $110.1 billion  , or   13 percent  , in   2015   to   $942.5 billion  . Increases in commercial committed exposure were concentrated in diversified financials, technology hardware and equipment, real estate, food, beverage and tobacco and retailing. 
  Industry limits are used internally to manage industry concentrations and are based on committed exposures and capital usage that are allocated on an industry-by-industry basis. A risk management framework is in place to set and approve industry limits as well as to provide ongoing monitoring. 
  Diversified financials, our largest industry concentration with committed exposure of   $128.4 billion  ,   increased     $24.9 billion  , or   24 percent  , in   2015  . The   increase   was primarily driven by growth in exposure to asset managers, acquisition financing and certain asset-backed lending products. 
  Real estate, our second largest industry concentration with committed exposure of   $87.7 billion  ,   increased     $11.5 billion  , or   15 percent  , in   2015  . The   increase   was primarily due to strong  

demand for quality core assets in major metropolitan markets. Real estate construction and land development exposure represented 14 percent and 13 percent of the total real estate industry committed exposure at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . For more information on the commercial real estate and related portfolios, see   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Commercial Real Estate   on page   80  . 
  During   2015  , committed exposure to the technology hardware and equipment industry   increased     $12.4 billion  , or   100 percent  , food, beverages and tobacco   increased     $8.7 billion  , or   25 percent  , and retailing industry   increased     $5.9 billion  , or   10 percent  , primarily driven by bridge financing for acquisitions and increased client activity. 
  The significant decline in oil prices since June 2014 has impacted and may continue to impact the financial performance of energy producers as well as energy equipment and service providers within the energy sector. At   December 31, 2015  , these two subsectors comprised 39 percent of our overall utilized energy exposure. While we experienced modest credit losses in our energy portfolio through   December 31, 2015  , the magnitude of the impact over time will depend upon the level and duration of future oil prices. Our energy-related exposure   decreased     $3.9 billion   in   2015   to   $43.8 billion   driven by paydowns from large clients. 

Our committed state and municipal exposure of $43.4 billion at   December 31, 2015   consisted of $35.9 billion of commercial utilized exposure (including $20.0 billion of funded loans, $6.4 billion of SBLCs and $2.2 billion of derivative assets) and $7.5 billion of unfunded commercial exposure (primarily unfunded loan commitments and letters of credit) and is reported in the government and public education industry in   Table 46  . With the U.S. economy gradually strengthening, most state and local  

governments are experiencing improved fiscal circumstances and continue to honor debt obligations as agreed. While historical default rates have been low, as part of our overall and ongoing risk management processes, we continually monitor these exposures through a rigorous review process. Additionally, internal communications are regularly circulated such that exposure levels are maintained in compliance with established concentration guidelines. 

(1)   
    Includes U.S. small business commercial exposure. 
               (2)   
    Industries are viewed from a variety of perspectives to best isolate the perceived risks. For purposes of this table, the real estate industry is defined based on the borrowers  or counterparties  primary business activity using operating cash flows and primary source of repayment as key factors. 
               (3)   
    Represents net notional credit protection purchased. For additional information, see   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Risk Mitigation   on page   84  . 
       Risk Mitigation 
  We purchase credit protection to cover the funded portion as well as the unfunded portion of certain credit exposures. To lower the cost of obtaining our desired credit protection levels, we may add credit exposure within an industry, borrower or counterparty group by selling protection.  
  At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , net notional credit default protection purchased in our credit derivatives portfolio to hedge our funded and unfunded exposures for which we elected the fair value option, as well as certain other credit exposures, was   $6.7 billion   and   $7.3 billion  . We recorded net gains of $150 million in   2015   compared to net losses of $50 million in   2014   on these positions. The gains and losses on these instruments were offset by gains and losses on the related exposures. The Value-at-Risk (VaR) results for these exposures are included in the fair value option portfolio information in   Table 56  . For additional information, see   Trading Risk Management   on page   93  . 

Tables   47   and   48   present the maturity profiles and the credit exposure debt ratings of the net credit default protection portfolio at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    Represents net credit default protection (purchased) sold. 
               (2)   
    Ratings are refreshed on a quarterly basis. 
               (3)   
    Ratings of BBB- or higher are considered to meet the definition of investment grade. 
               (4)   
    NR is comprised of index positions held and any names that have not been rated. 
     In addition to our net notional credit default protection purchased to cover the funded and unfunded portion of certain credit exposures, credit derivatives are used for market-making activities for clients and establishing positions intended to profit from directional or relative value changes. We execute the majority of our credit derivative trades in the OTC market with large, multinational financial institutions, including broker-dealers and,  

to a lesser degree, with a variety of other investors. Because these transactions are executed in the OTC market, we are subject to settlement risk. We are also subject to credit risk in the event that these counterparties fail to perform under the terms of these contracts. In most cases, credit derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit downgrade, depending on the ultimate rating level, or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required by the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow us to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. 
  Table 49   presents the total contract/notional amount of credit derivatives outstanding and includes both purchased and written credit derivatives. The credit risk amounts are measured as net asset exposure by counterparty, taking into consideration all contracts with the counterparty. For more information on our written credit derivatives, see   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  The credit risk amounts discussed above and presented in   Table 49   take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements while amounts disclosed in   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   are shown on a gross basis. Credit risk reflects the potential benefit from offsetting exposure to non-credit derivative products with the same counterparties that may be netted upon the occurrence of certain events, thereby reducing our overall exposure. 

n/a = not applicable 
    Counterparty Credit Risk Valuation Adjustments 
  We record counterparty credit risk valuation adjustments on certain derivative assets, including our credit default protection purchased, in order to properly reflect the credit risk of the counterparty, as presented in   Table 50  . We calculate CVA based on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk factors including changes in market spreads and non-credit related market factors that affect the value of a derivative. The exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as legally enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. For additional information, see   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We enter into risk management activities to offset market driven exposures. We often hedge the counterparty spread risk in  

CVA with credit default swaps (CDS). We hedge other market risks in CVA primarily with currency and interest rate swaps. In certain instances, the net-of-hedge amounts in the table below move in the same direction as the gross amount or may move in the opposite direction. This is a consequence of the complex interaction of the risks being hedged resulting in limitations in the ability to perfectly hedge all of the market exposures at all times. 

Non-U.S. Portfolio 
  Our non-U.S. credit and trading portfolios are subject to country risk. We define country risk as the risk of loss from unfavorable economic and political conditions, currency fluctuations, social instability and changes in government policies. A risk management framework is in place to measure, monitor and manage non-U.S. risk and exposures. In addition to the direct risk of doing business in a country, we also are exposed to indirect country risks (e.g., related to the collateral received on secured financing transactions or related to client clearing activities). These indirect exposures are managed in the normal course of business through credit, market and operational risk governance, rather than through country risk governance. 
  Table 51   presents our total non-U.S. exposure by region at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . Non-U.S. exposure is presented on an internal risk management basis and includes sovereign and non-sovereign credit exposure, securities and other investments issued by or domiciled in countries other than the U.S. The risk assignments by country can be adjusted for external guarantees and certain collateral types. Exposures that are subject to external guarantees are reported under the country of the guarantor. Exposures with tangible collateral are reflected in the country where the collateral is held. For securities received, other than cross-border resale agreements, outstandings are assigned to the domicile of the issuer of the securities. 

Our total non-U.S. exposure was   $271.3 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , an   increase   of   $6.0 billion   from   December 31, 2014  . The   increase   in non-U.S. exposure was driven by growth in Europe, Latin America, and Middle East and Africa exposures, partially offset by a reduction in Asia Pacific and Other. Our non-U.S. exposure remained concentrated in Europe which accounted for   $140.8 billion  , or   52 percent   of total non-U.S.  

exposure. The European exposure was mostly in Western Europe and was distributed across a variety of industries. 
  Table 52   presents our 20 largest non-U.S. country exposures. These exposures accounted for   86 percent   and   88 percent   of our total non-U.S. exposure at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . Net country exposure for these 20 countries   increased     $6.1 billion   in   2015   primarily driven by increases in the United Kingdom, Belgium and Australia, partially offset by reductions in Canada, Japan, China, France and Hong Kong. On a product basis, the increase was driven by higher funded loans and loan equivalents in the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia and India and higher unfunded commitments in Belgium and the United Kingdom. These increases were partially offset by reductions in securities in the United Kingdom, Canada, India and France. 
  Funded loans and loan equivalents include loans, leases, and other extensions of credit and funds, including letters of credit and due from placements, which have not been reduced by collateral, hedges or credit default protection. Funded loans and loan equivalents are reported net of charge-offs but prior to any allowance for loan and lease losses. Unfunded commitments are the undrawn portion of legally binding commitments related to loans and loan equivalents. 
  Net counterparty exposure includes the fair value of derivatives, including the counterparty risk associated with CDS, and secured financing transactions. Derivatives exposures are presented net of collateral, which is predominantly cash, pledged under legally enforceable master netting agreements. Secured financing transaction exposures are presented net of eligible cash or securities pledged as collateral. 
  Securities and other investments are carried at fair value and long securities exposures are netted against short exposures with the same underlying issuer to, but not below, zero (i.e., negative issuer exposures are reported as   zero  ). Other investments include our GPI portfolio and strategic investments. 
  Net country exposure represents country exposure less hedges and credit default protection purchased, net of credit default protection sold. We hedge certain of our country exposures with credit default protection primarily in the form of single-name, as well as indexed and tranched CDS. The exposures associated with these hedges represent the amount that would be realized upon the isolated default of an individual issuer in the relevant country assuming a zero recovery rate for that individual issuer, and are calculated based on the CDS notional amount adjusted for any fair value receivable or payable. Changes in the assumption of an isolated default can produce different results in a particular tranche. 

Weakening of commodity prices, signs of slowing growth in China and a recession in Brazil are driving risk aversion in emerging markets. Net exposure to China decreased to   $10.5 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , concentrated in large state-owned companies, subsidiaries of multinational corporations and commercial banks. Net exposure to Brazil was   $15.7 billion  , concentrated in sovereign securities, oil and gas companies and commercial banks. 
  Russian intervention in Ukraine initiated in   2014   significantly increased regional geopolitical tensions. The Russian economy continues to slow due to the negative impacts of weak oil prices, ongoing economic sanctions and high interest rates resulting from Russian central bank actions taken to counter ruble depreciation. Net exposure to Russia was reduced to   $2.2 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , concentrated in oil and gas companies and commercial banks. Our exposure to Ukraine at   December 31, 2015   was minimal. In response to Russian actions, U.S. and European governments have imposed sanctions on a limited number of Russian individuals and business entities. Geopolitical and economic conditions remain fluid with potential for further escalation of tensions, increased severity of sanctions against Russian interests, sustained low oil prices and rating agency downgrades. 
  Certain European countries, including Italy, Spain, Ireland and Portugal, have experienced varying degrees of financial stress in recent years. While market conditions have improved in Europe, policymakers continue to address fundamental challenges of competitiveness, growth, deflation and high unemployment. A return of political stress or financial instability in these countries  

could disrupt financial markets and have a detrimental impact on global economic conditions and sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries. Net exposure at   December 31, 2015   to Italy and Spain was   $5.3 billion   and   $3.1 billion   as presented in   Table 52  . Net exposure at   December 31, 2015   to Ireland and Portugal was   $1.0 billion   and   $54 million  . We expect to continue to support client activities in the region and our exposures may vary over time as we monitor the situation and manage our risk profile. 
  Table 53   presents countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At   December 31, 2015  , the United Kingdom and France were the only countries where total cross-border exposure exceeded one percent of our total assets. At   December 31, 2015  , Canada and Germany had total cross-border exposure of   $18.3 billion   and   $16.5 billion   representing   0.85   percent and   0.77 percent   of our total assets. No other countries had total cross-border exposure that exceeded   0.75   percent of our total assets at   December 31, 2015  . 
  Cross-border exposures in   Table 53   are calculated using Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC) guidelines and not our internal risk management view; therefore, exposures are not comparable between Tables   52   and   53  . Exposure includes cross-border claims by our non-U.S. offices including loans, acceptances, time deposits placed, trading account assets, securities, derivative assets, other interest-earning investments and other monetary assets. Amounts also include unfunded commitments, letters of credit and financial guarantees, and the notional amount of cash loaned under secured financing transactions. Sector definitions are consistent with FFIEC reporting requirements for preparing the Country Exposure Report. 

Provision for Credit Losses 
  The provision for credit losses   increased     $886 million   to   $3.2 billion   in   2015   compared to   2014  . The provision for credit losses was   $1.2 billion   lower than net charge-offs for   2015  , resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses. This compared to a reduction of   $2.1 billion   in the allowance for credit losses in   2014  . As we look at 2016, reserve releases are expected to decrease from 2015 levels. All else equal, this would result in increased provision expense, assuming sustained stability in underlying asset quality.  
  The provision for credit losses for the consumer portfolio   increased     $726 million   to   $2.2 billion   in   2015   compared to   2014  . The provision for credit losses in 2014 included $400 million of additional costs associated with the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement. Excluding these additional costs, the consumer provision for credit losses increased due to a slower pace of portfolio improvement than in   2014  , and also due to a lower level of recoveries on nonperforming loan sales and other recoveries in   2015  . Included in the provision is a   benefit   of   $40 million   related to the PCI loan portfolio for   2015   compared to a   benefit   of   $31 million   in   2014  .  
  The provision for credit losses for the commercial portfolio, including unfunded lending commitments,   increased     $160 million   to   $953 million   in   2015   compared to   2014   driven by energy sector exposure and higher unfunded balances. 
    Allowance for Credit Losses 
  Allowance for Loan and Lease Losses 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses is comprised of two components. The first component covers nonperforming commercial loans and TDRs. The second component covers loans and leases on which there are incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable, as well as incurred losses that may not be represented in the loss forecast models. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance for loan and lease losses based on the total of these two components, each of which is described in more detail below. The allowance for loan and lease losses excludes LHFS and loans accounted for under the fair value option as the fair value reflects a credit risk component. 
  The first component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers both nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs within the consumer and commercial portfolios. These loans are subject to impairment measurement based on the present value of projected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, or in certain circumstances, impairment may also be based upon the collateral value or the loan s observable market price if available. Impairment measurement for the renegotiated consumer credit card, small business credit card and unsecured consumer TDR portfolios is based on the present  

value of projected cash flows discounted using the average portfolio contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. For purposes of computing this specific loss component of the allowance, larger impaired loans are evaluated individually and smaller impaired loans are evaluated as a pool using historical experience for the respective product types and risk ratings of the loans. 
  The second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses covers the remaining consumer and commercial loans and leases that have incurred losses that are not yet individually identifiable. The allowance for consumer and certain homogeneous commercial loan and lease products is based on aggregated portfolio evaluations, generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, economic trends and credit scores. Our consumer real estate loss forecast model estimates the portion of loans that will default based on individual loan attributes, the most significant of which are refreshed LTV or CLTV, and borrower credit score as well as vintage and geography, all of which are further broken down into current delinquency status. Additionally, we incorporate the delinquency status of underlying first-lien loans on our junior-lien home equity portfolio in our allowance process. Incorporating refreshed LTV and CLTV into our probability of default allows us to factor the impact of changes in home prices into our allowance for loan and lease losses. These loss forecast models are updated on a quarterly basis to incorporate information reflecting the current economic environment. As of   December 31, 2015  , the loss forecast process resulted in reductions in the allowance for all major consumer portfolios compared to   December 31, 2014  . 
  The allowance for commercial loan and lease losses is established by product type after analyzing historical loss experience, internal risk rating, current economic conditions, industry performance trends, geographic and obligor concentrations within each portfolio and any other pertinent information. The statistical models for commercial loans are generally updated annually and utilize our historical database of actual defaults and other data, including external default data. The loan risk ratings and composition of the commercial portfolios used to calculate the allowance are updated quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflecting the current economic environment. For risk-rated commercial loans, we estimate the probability of default and the LGD based on our historical experience of defaults and credit losses. Factors considered when assessing the internal risk rating include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry in which the obligor operates, the obligor s liquidity and other financial indicators, and other quantitative and qualitative factors relevant to the obligor s credit risk. As of   December 31, 2015  , the allowance increased for the  

U.S. commercial, non-U.S. commercial and commercial lease financing portfolios compared to   December 31, 2014  . 
  Also included within the second component of the allowance for loan and lease losses are reserves to cover losses that are incurred but, in our assessment, may not be adequately represented in the historical loss data used in the loss forecast models. For example, factors that we consider include, among others, changes in lending policies and procedures, changes in economic and business conditions, changes in the nature and size of the portfolio, changes in portfolio concentrations, changes in the volume and severity of past due loans and nonaccrual loans, the effect of external factors such as competition, and legal and regulatory requirements. We also consider factors that are applicable to unique portfolio segments. For example, we consider the risk of uncertainty in our loss forecasting models related to junior-lien home equity loans that are current, but have first-lien loans that we do not service that are 30 days or more past due. In addition, we consider the increased risk of default associated with our interest-only loans that have yet to enter the amortization period. Further, we consider the inherent uncertainty in mathematical models that are built upon historical data. 
  During   2015  , the factors that impacted the allowance for loan and lease losses included overall improvements in the credit quality of the portfolios driven by continuing improvements in the U.S. economy and labor markets, continuing proactive credit risk management initiatives and the impact of recent higher credit quality originations. Additionally, the resolution of uncertainties through current recognition of net charge-offs has impacted the amount of reserve needed in certain portfolios. Evidencing the improvements in the U.S. economy and labor markets are modest growth in consumer spending, improvements in unemployment levels, increases in home prices and a decrease in the absolute level and our share of national consumer bankruptcy filings. In addition to these improvements, in the consumer portfolio, returns to performing status, charge-offs, sales, paydowns and transfers to foreclosed properties continued to outpace new nonaccrual loans. Also impacting the allowance for loan and lease losses in the commercial portfolio were growth in loan balances and higher reservable criticized levels, particularly in the energy sector due primarily to lower oil prices. 
  We monitor differences between estimated and actual incurred loan and lease losses. This monitoring process includes periodic assessments by senior management of loan and lease portfolios and the models used to estimate incurred losses in those portfolios. 
  Additions to, or reductions of, the allowance for loan and lease losses generally are recorded through charges or credits to the provision for credit losses. Credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for loan and lease losses. Recoveries of previously charged off amounts are credited to the allowance for loan and lease losses. 

The allowance for loan and lease losses for the consumer portfolio, as presented in   Table 55  , was   $7.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , a   decrease   of   $2.6 billion   from   December 31, 2014  . The   decrease   was primarily in the residential mortgage, home equity and credit card portfolios. Reductions in the residential mortgage and home equity portfolios were due to improved home prices and lower delinquencies, a decrease in consumer loan balances, as well as the utilization of reserves recorded as a part of the DoJ Settlement. Further, the residential mortgage and home equity allowance declined due to write-offs in our PCI loan portfolio. 
  The decrease in the allowance related to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   Consumer Banking   was primarily due to improvement in delinquencies and more generally in unemployment levels. For example, in the U.S. credit card portfolio, accruing loans 30 days or more past due   decreased   to   $1.6 billion   at   December 31, 2015   from   $1.7 billion   (to   1.76 percent   from   1.85 percent   of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at   December 31, 2014  , and accruing loans 90 days or more past due   decreased   to   $789 million   at   December 31, 2015   from   $866 million   (to   0.88 percent   from   0.94 percent   of outstanding U.S. credit card loans) at   December 31, 2014  . See Tables   23  ,   24  ,   31   and   33   for additional details on key credit statistics for the credit card and other unsecured consumer lending portfolios. 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses for the commercial portfolio, as presented in   Table 55  , was   $4.8 billion   at   December 31, 2015  ,   an increase   of   $412 million   from   December 31, 2014   with the increase attributable to loan growth and higher reservable criticized levels. Commercial utilized reservable criticized exposure   increased   to   $16.5 billion   at   December 31, 2015   from   $11.6 billion   (to   3.46 percent   from   2.74 percent   of total commercial utilized reservable exposure) at   December 31, 2014  , largely due to downgrades in the energy portfolio. Nonperforming commercial loans   increased     $99 million   from   December 31, 2014   to   $1.2 billion   (to   0.27 percent   from   0.29 percent   of outstanding commercial loans) at   December 31, 2015   largely in the energy sector. Commercial loans and leases outstanding   increased   to   $446.8 billion   at   December 31, 2015   from   $392.8 billion   at   December 31, 2014  . See Tables   37  ,   38   and   40   for additional details on key commercial credit statistics. 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was   1.37 percent   at   December 31, 2015   compared to   1.65 percent   at   December 31, 2014  . The   decrease   in the ratio was primarily due to improved credit quality driven by improved economic conditions, write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio and utilization of reserves related to the DoJ Settlement. The   December 31, 2015 and 2014   ratios above include the PCI loan portfolio. Excluding the PCI loan portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding was   1.30 percent   and   1.50 percent   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

Table 54   presents a rollforward of the allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, for   2015   and   2014  . 

(3)   
    Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, and foreign currency translation adjustments. 

Table 54 
    Allowance for Credit Losses (continued) 

(Dollars in millions) 
    2015 
      
    2014 
      Loan and allowance ratios: 

Loans and leases outstanding at December 31    (4)  
    $ 
    896,063 

$ 
    872,710 
      
      Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31    (4)  
    1.37 
    % 
      
    1.65 
    % 
      Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31    (5)  
    1.63 

2.05 
      
      Commercial allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total commercial loans and leases outstanding at December 31    (6)  
    1.10 

1.15 
      
      Average loans and leases outstanding    (4)  
    $ 
    874,461 

$ 
    894,001 
      
      Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding    (4, 7)  
    0.50 
    % 
      
    0.49 
    % 
      Net charge-offs and PCI write-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding    (4)  
    0.59 

0.58 
      
      Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31    (4, 8)  
    130 

121 
      
      Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs    (7)  
    2.82 

3.29 
      
      Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs and PCI write-offs 
    2.38 

2.78 
      
      Amounts included in allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31    (9)  
    $ 
    4,518 

$ 
    5,944 
      
      Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases, excluding the allowance for loan and lease losses for loans and leases that are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases at December 31    (4, 9)  
    82 
    % 
      
    71 
    % 
      Loan and allowance ratios excluding PCI loans and the related valuation allowance:    (10)  

Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases outstanding at December 31    (4)  
    1.30 
    % 
      
    1.50 
    % 
      Consumer allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total consumer loans and leases outstanding at December 31    (5)  
    1.50 

1.79 
      
      Net charge-offs as a percentage of average loans and leases outstanding    (4)  
    0.51 

0.50 
      
      Allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total nonperforming loans and leases at December 31    (4, 8)  
    122 

107 
      
      Ratio of the allowance for loan and lease losses at December 31 to net charge-offs  
    2.64 

2.91 

(7)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $808 million   and   $810 million   of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio in   2015   and   2014  . For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
               (8)   
    For more information on our definition of nonperforming loans, see pages   75   and   82  . 
               (9)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   Consumer Banking  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (10)   
    For more information on the PCI loan portfolio and the valuation allowance for PCI loans, see   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases   and   Note 5   Allowance for Credit Losses     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
     For reporting purposes, we allocate the allowance for credit losses across products. However, the allowance is generally available to absorb any credit losses without restriction.   Table 55   presents our allocation by product type. 

(1)   
    Ratios are calculated as allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of loans and leases outstanding excluding loans accounted for under the fair value option. Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option included residential mortgage loans of   $1.6 billion   and   $1.9 billion   and home equity loans of   $250 million   and   $196 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option included U.S. commercial loans of   $2.3 billion   and   $1.9 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $2.8 billion   and   $4.7 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

Reserve for Unfunded Lending Commitments 
  In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, we also estimate probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments such as letters of credit, financial guarantees, unfunded bankers  acceptances and binding loan commitments, excluding commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to the same assessment as funded loans, including estimates of probability of default and LGD. Due to the nature of unfunded commitments, the estimate of probable losses must also consider utilization. To estimate the portion of these undrawn commitments that is likely to be drawn by a borrower at the time of estimated default, analyses of the Corporation s historical experience are applied to the unfunded commitments to estimate the funded EAD. The expected loss for unfunded lending commitments is the product of the probability of default, the LGD and the EAD, adjusted for any qualitative factors including economic uncertainty and inherent imprecision in models. 
  The reserve for unfunded lending commitments was   $646 million   at   December 31, 2015  ,   an increase   of   $118 million   from   December 31, 2014     with the     increase   attributable primarily to higher unfunded commitments. 
    Market Risk Management 
  Market risk is the risk that changes in market conditions may adversely impact the value of assets or liabilities, or otherwise negatively impact earnings. This risk is inherent in the financial instruments associated with our operations, primarily within our   Global Markets   segment. We are also exposed to these risks in other areas of the Corporation (e.g., our ALM activities). In the event of market stress, these risks could have a material impact on the results of the Corporation. For additional information, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   on page   97  . 
  Our traditional banking loan and deposit products are non-trading positions and are generally reported at amortized cost for assets or the amount owed for liabilities (historical cost). However, these positions are still subject to changes in economic value based on varying market conditions, with one of the primary risks being changes in the levels of interest rates. The risk of adverse changes in the economic value of our non-trading positions arising from changes in interest rates is managed through our ALM activities. We have elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option. 
  Our trading positions are reported at fair value with changes reflected in income. Trading positions are subject to various changes in market-based risk factors. The majority of this risk is generated by our activities in the interest rate, foreign exchange, credit, equity and commodities markets. In addition, the values of assets and liabilities could change due to market liquidity, correlations across markets and expectations of market volatility. We seek to manage these risk exposures by using a variety of techniques that encompass a broad range of financial instruments. The key risk management techniques are discussed in more detail in the Trading Risk Management section. 
  Global Risk Management is responsible for providing senior management with a clear and comprehensive understanding of the trading risks to which the Corporation is exposed. These responsibilities include ownership of market risk policy, developing and maintaining quantitative risk models, calculating aggregated risk measures, establishing and monitoring position limits  

consistent with risk appetite, conducting daily reviews and analysis of trading inventory, approving material risk exposures and fulfilling regulatory requirements. Market risks that impact businesses outside of   Global Markets   are monitored and governed by their respective governance functions. 
  Quantitative risk models, such as VaR, are an essential component in evaluating the market risks within a portfolio. A subcommittee of the Management Risk Committee (MRC) is responsible for providing management oversight and approval of model risk management and governance (Risk Management, or RM subcommittee). The RM subcommittee defines model risk standards, consistent with the Corporation s risk framework and risk appetite, prevailing regulatory guidance and industry best practice. Models must meet certain validation criteria, including effective challenge of the model development process and a sufficient demonstration of developmental evidence incorporating a comparison of alternative theories and approaches. The RM subcommittee ensures model standards are consistent with model risk requirements and monitors the effective challenge in the model validation process across the Corporation. In addition, the relevant stakeholders must agree on any required actions or restrictions to the models and maintain a stringent monitoring process to ensure continued compliance. 
  For more information on the fair value of certain financial assets and liabilities, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  Interest rate risk represents exposures to instruments whose values vary with the level or volatility of interest rates. These instruments include, but are not limited to, loans, debt securities, certain trading-related assets and liabilities, deposits, borrowings and derivatives. Hedging instruments used to mitigate these risks include derivatives such as options, futures, forwards and swaps. 
  Foreign Exchange Risk 
  Foreign exchange risk represents exposures to changes in the values of current holdings and future cash flows denominated in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. The types of instruments exposed to this risk include investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries, foreign currency-denominated loans and securities, future cash flows in foreign currencies arising from foreign exchange transactions, foreign currency-denominated debt and various foreign exchange derivatives whose values fluctuate with changes in the level or volatility of currency exchange rates or non-U.S. interest rates. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include foreign exchange options, currency swaps, futures, forwards, and foreign currency-denominated debt and deposits. 
  Mortgage Risk 
  Mortgage risk represents exposures to changes in the values of mortgage-related instruments. The values of these instruments are sensitive to prepayment rates, mortgage rates, agency debt ratings, default, market liquidity, government participation and interest rate volatility. Our exposure to these instruments takes several forms. First, we trade and engage in market-making activities in a variety of mortgage securities including whole loans, pass-through certificates, commercial mortgages and collateralized mortgage obligations including collateralized debt obligations (CDO) using mortgages as underlying collateral. Second, we originate a variety of MBS which involves the  

accumulation of mortgage-related loans in anticipation of eventual securitization. Third, we may hold positions in mortgage securities and residential mortgage loans as part of the ALM portfolio. Fourth, we create MSRs as part of our mortgage origination activities. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include derivatives such as options, swaps, futures and forwards as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. For additional information, see   Mortgage Banking Risk Management   on page   99  . 
  Equity Market Risk 
  Equity market risk represents exposures to securities that represent an ownership interest in a corporation in the form of domestic and foreign common stock or other equity-linked instruments. Instruments that would lead to this exposure include, but are not limited to, the following: common stock, exchange-traded funds, American Depositary Receipts, convertible bonds, listed equity options (puts and calls), OTC equity options, equity total return swaps, equity index futures and other equity derivative products. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures, swaps, convertible bonds and cash positions. 
  Commodity Risk 
  Commodity risk represents exposures to instruments traded in the petroleum, natural gas, power and metals markets. These instruments consist primarily of futures, forwards, swaps and options. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include options, futures and swaps in the same or similar commodity product, as well as cash positions. 
  Issuer Credit Risk 
  Issuer credit risk represents exposures to changes in the creditworthiness of individual issuers or groups of issuers. Our portfolio is exposed to issuer credit risk where the value of an asset may be adversely impacted by changes in the levels of credit spreads, by credit migration or by defaults. Hedging instruments used to mitigate this risk include bonds, CDS and other credit fixed-income instruments. 
  Market Liquidity Risk 
  Market liquidity risk represents the risk that the level of expected market activity changes dramatically and, in certain cases, may even cease. This exposes us to the risk that we will not be able to transact business and execute trades in an orderly manner which may impact our results. This impact could be further exacerbated if expected hedging or pricing correlations are compromised by disproportionate demand or lack of demand for certain instruments. We utilize various risk mitigating techniques as discussed in more detail in Trading Risk Management. 
    Trading Risk Management 
  To evaluate risk in our trading activities, we focus on the actual and potential volatility of revenues generated by individual positions as well as portfolios of positions. Various techniques and procedures are utilized to enable the most complete understanding of these risks. Quantitative measures of market risk are evaluated on a daily basis from a single position to the portfolio of the Corporation. These measures include sensitivities  

of positions to various market risk factors, such as the potential impact on revenue from a one basis point change in interest rates, and statistical measures utilizing both actual and hypothetical market moves, such as VaR and stress testing. Periods of extreme market stress influence the reliability of these techniques to varying degrees. Qualitative evaluations of market risk utilize the suite of quantitative risk measures while understanding each of their respective limitations. Additionally, risk managers independently evaluate the risk of the portfolios under the current market environment and potential future environments. 
  VaR is a common statistic used to measure market risk as it allows the aggregation of market risk factors, including the effects of portfolio diversification. A VaR model simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss a portfolio is not expected to exceed more than a certain number of times per period, based on a specified holding period, confidence level and window of historical data. We use one VaR model consistently across the trading portfolios and it uses a historical simulation approach based on a three-year window of historical data. Our primary VaR statistic is equivalent to a 99 percent confidence level. This means that for a VaR with a one-day holding period, there should not be losses in excess of VaR, on average, 99 out of 100 trading days. 
  Within any VaR model, there are significant and numerous assumptions that will differ from company to company. The accuracy of a VaR model depends on the availability and quality of historical data for each of the risk factors in the portfolio. A VaR model may require additional modeling assumptions for new products that do not have the necessary historical market data or for less liquid positions for which accurate daily prices are not consistently available. For positions with insufficient historical data for the VaR calculation, the process for establishing an appropriate proxy is based on fundamental and statistical analysis of the new product or less liquid position. This analysis identifies reasonable alternatives that replicate both the expected volatility and correlation to other market risk factors that the missing data would be expected to experience. 
  VaR may not be indicative of realized revenue volatility as changes in market conditions or in the composition of the portfolio can have a material impact on the results. In particular, the historical data used for the VaR calculation might indicate higher or lower levels of portfolio diversification than will be experienced. In order for the VaR model to reflect current market conditions, we update the historical data underlying our VaR model on a weekly basis, or more frequently during periods of market stress, and regularly review the assumptions underlying the model. A relatively minor portion of risks related to our trading positions is not included in VaR. These risks are reviewed as part of our ICAAP. 
  Global Risk Management continually reviews, evaluates and enhances our VaR model so that it reflects the material risks in our trading portfolio. Changes to the VaR model are reviewed and approved prior to implementation and any material changes are reported to management through the appropriate management committees. 
  Trading limits on quantitative risk measures, including VaR, are independently set by Global Markets Risk Management and reviewed on a regular basis to ensure they remain relevant and within our overall risk appetite for market risks. Trading limits are reviewed in the context of market liquidity, volatility and strategic business priorities. Trading limits are set at both a granular level to ensure extensive coverage of risks as well as at aggregated  

portfolios to account for correlations among risk factors. All trading limits are approved at least annually. Approved trading limits are stored and tracked in a centralized limits management system. Trading limit excesses are communicated to management for review. Certain quantitative market risk measures and corresponding limits have been identified as critical in the Corporation s Risk Appetite Statement. These risk appetite limits are reported on a daily basis and are approved at least annually by the ERC and the Board. 
  In periods of market stress,   Global Markets   senior leadership communicates daily to discuss losses, key risk positions and any limit excesses. As a result of this process, the businesses may selectively reduce risk. 
  Table 56   presents the total market-based trading portfolio VaR which is the combination of the covered positions trading portfolio and the impact from less liquid trading exposures. Covered positions are defined by regulatory standards as trading assets and liabilities, both on- and off-balance sheet, that meet a defined set of specifications. These specifications identify the most liquid trading positions which are intended to be held for a short-term horizon and where the Corporation is able to hedge the material risk elements in a two-way market. Positions in less liquid markets,  

or where there are restrictions on the ability to trade the positions, typically do not qualify as covered positions. Foreign exchange and commodity positions are always considered covered positions, except for structural foreign currency positions that we choose to exclude with prior regulatory approval. In addition,   Table 56   presents our fair value option portfolio, which includes the funded and unfunded exposures for which we elect the fair value option, and their corresponding hedges. The fair value option portfolio combined with the total market-based trading portfolio VaR represents the Corporation s total market-based portfolio VaR. Additionally, market risk VaR for trading activities as presented in   Table 56   differs from VaR used for regulatory capital calculations due to the holding period being used. The holding period for VaR used for regulatory capital calculations is 10 days, while for the market risk VaR presented below it is one day. Both measures utilize the same process and methodology. 
  The total market-based portfolio VaR results in   Table 56   include market risk from all business segments to which the Corporation is exposed, excluding CVA and DVA. The majority of this portfolio is within the   Global Markets   segment. 
  Table 56   presents year-end, average, high and low daily trading VaR for   2015   and   2014   using a 99 percent confidence level. 

(1)   
    The high and low for each portfolio may have occurred on different trading days than the high and low for the components. Therefore the impact from less liquid exposures and the amount of portfolio diversification, which is the difference between the total portfolio and the sum of the individual components, are not relevant. 
     The average total market-based trading portfolio VaR   decreased   during   2015   primarily due to reduced exposure to the credit and interest rate markets, partially offset by a reduction in portfolio diversification. 

The graph below presents the daily total market-based trading portfolio VaR for   2015  , corresponding to the data in   Table 56  . 
  
    Additional VaR statistics produced within the Corporation s single VaR model are provided in   Table 57   at the same level of detail as in   Table 56  . Evaluating VaR with additional statistics allows for an increased understanding of the risks in the portfolio  

as the historical market data used in the VaR calculation does not necessarily follow a predefined statistical distribution.   Table 57   presents average trading VaR statistics for 99 percent and 95 percent confidence levels for   2015   and   2014  . 

Backtesting 
  The accuracy of the VaR methodology is evaluated by backtesting, which compares the daily VaR results, utilizing a one-day holding period, against a comparable subset of trading revenue. A backtesting excess occurs when a trading loss exceeds the VaR for the corresponding day. These excesses are evaluated to understand the positions and market moves that produced the trading loss and to ensure that the VaR methodology accurately represents those losses. As our primary VaR statistic used for backtesting is based on a 99 percent confidence level and a one-day holding period, we expect one trading loss in excess of VaR every 100 days, or between two to three trading losses in excess of VaR over the course of a year. The number of backtesting excesses observed can differ from the statistically expected number of excesses if the current level of market volatility is  

materially different than the level of market volatility that existed during the three years of historical data used in the VaR calculation. 
  We conduct daily backtesting on our portfolios, ranging from the total market-based portfolio to individual trading areas. Additionally, we conduct daily backtesting on the VaR results used for regulatory capital calculations as well as the VaR results for key legal entities, regions and risk factors. These results are reported to senior market risk management. Senior management regularly reviews and evaluates the results of these tests. 
  The trading revenue used for backtesting is defined by regulatory agencies in order to most closely align with the VaR component of the regulatory capital calculation. This revenue differs from total trading-related revenue in that it excludes revenue from trading activities that either do not generate market risk or the market risk cannot be included in VaR. Some examples of the  

types of revenue excluded for backtesting are fees, commissions, reserves, net interest income and intraday trading revenues. 
  During   2015  , there were no days in which there was a backtesting excess for our total market-based portfolio VaR, utilizing a one-day holding period. 
  Total Trading-related Revenue 
  Total trading-related revenue, excluding brokerage fees, and CVA and DVA related revenue, represents the total amount earned from trading positions, including market-based net interest income, which are taken in a diverse range of financial instruments and markets. Trading account assets and liabilities are reported at fair value. For more information on fair value, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . Trading-related revenues can be volatile and are largely driven by general  

market conditions and customer demand. Also, trading-related revenues are dependent on the volume and type of transactions, the level of risk assumed, and the volatility of price and rate movements at any given time within the ever-changing market environment. Significant daily revenues by business are monitored and the primary drivers of these are reviewed. 
  The histogram below is a graphic depiction of trading volatility and illustrates the daily level of trading-related revenue for   2015   and   2014  . During   2015  , positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 98 percent of the trading days, of which 77 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million and the largest loss was $22 million. This compares to   2014   where positive trading-related revenue was recorded for 95 percent of the trading days, of which 72 percent were daily trading gains of over $25 million and the largest loss was $17 million. 

Trading Portfolio Stress Testing 
  Because the very nature of a VaR model suggests results can exceed our estimates and it is dependent on a limited historical window, we also stress test our portfolio using scenario analysis. This analysis estimates the change in the value of our trading portfolio that may result from abnormal market movements. 
  A set of scenarios, categorized as either historical or hypothetical, are computed daily for the overall trading portfolio and individual businesses. These scenarios include shocks to underlying market risk factors that may be well beyond the shocks found in the historical data used to calculate VaR. Historical scenarios simulate the impact of the market moves that occurred during a period of extended historical market stress. Generally, a multi-week period representing the most severe point during a crisis is selected for each historical scenario. Hypothetical  

scenarios provide simulations of the estimated portfolio impact from potential future market stress events. Scenarios are reviewed and updated in response to changing positions and new economic or political information. In addition, new or ad hoc scenarios are developed to address specific potential market events or particular vulnerabilities in the portfolio. The stress tests are reviewed on a regular basis and the results are presented to senior management. 
  Stress testing for the trading portfolio is integrated with enterprise-wide stress testing and incorporated into the limits framework. The macroeconomic scenarios used for enterprise-wide stress testing purposes differ from the typical trading portfolio scenarios in that they have a longer time horizon and the results are forecasted over multiple periods for use in consolidated capital and liquidity planning. For additional information, see   Managing Risk   Corporation-wide Stress Testing   on page   52  . 

Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities 
  The following discussion presents net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities. 
  Interest rate risk represents the most significant market risk exposure to our non-trading balance sheet. Interest rate risk is measured as the potential change in net interest income caused by movements in market interest rates. Client-facing activities, primarily lending and deposit-taking, create interest rate sensitive positions on our balance sheet. 
  We prepare forward-looking forecasts of net interest income. The baseline forecast takes into consideration expected future business growth, ALM positioning and the direction of interest rate movements as implied by the market-based forward curve. We then measure and evaluate the impact that alternative interest rate scenarios have on the baseline forecast in order to assess interest rate sensitivity under varied conditions. The net interest income forecast is frequently updated for changing assumptions and differing outlooks based on economic trends, market conditions and business strategies. Thus, we continually monitor our balance sheet position in order to maintain an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate changes. 
  The interest rate scenarios that we analyze incorporate balance sheet assumptions such as loan and deposit growth and pricing, changes in funding mix, product repricing and maturity characteristics. Our overall goal is to manage interest rate risk so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. 
  Table 58   presents the spot and 12-month forward rates used in our baseline forecasts at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

Table 59   shows the pretax dollar impact to forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months from   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , resulting from instantaneous parallel and non-parallel shocks to the market-based forward curve. Periodically we evaluate the scenarios presented to ensure that they are meaningful in the context of the current rate environment. For more information on net interest income excluding the impact of trading-related activities, see page   31  . 
  During   2015  , the asset sensitivity of our balance sheet increased due to higher deposit balances and lower long-end interest rates. We continue to be asset sensitive to a parallel move in interest rates with the majority of that benefit coming from the short end of the yield curve. Additionally, higher interest rates impact the fair value of debt securities and, accordingly, for debt securities classified as AFS, may adversely affect accumulated OCI and thus capital levels under the Basel 3 capital rules. Under instantaneous upward parallel shifts, the near-term adverse impact to Basel 3 capital is reduced over time by offsetting positive  

impacts to net interest income. For more information on the transition provisions of Basel 3, see   Capital Management   Regulatory Capital   on page   54  . 

The sensitivity analysis in   Table 59   assumes that we take no action in response to these rate shocks and does not assume any change in other macroeconomic variables normally correlated with changes in interest rates. As part of our ALM activities, we use securities, certain residential mortgages, and interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives in managing interest rate sensitivity. 
  The behavior of our deposit portfolio in the baseline forecast and in alternate interest rate scenarios is a key assumption in our projected estimates of net interest income. The sensitivity analysis in   Table 59   assumes no change in deposit portfolio size or mix from the baseline forecast in alternate rate environments. In higher rate scenarios, any customer activity resulting in the replacement of low-cost or noninterest-bearing deposits with higher-yielding deposits or market-based funding would reduce the Corporation s benefit in those scenarios. 
  Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Derivative Contracts 
  Interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts are utilized in our ALM activities and serve as an efficient tool to manage our interest rate and foreign exchange risk. We use derivatives to hedge the variability in cash flows or changes in fair value on our balance sheet due to interest rate and foreign exchange components. For more information on our hedging activities, see   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Our interest rate contracts are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and foreign exchange basis swaps, options, futures and forwards. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts, including cross-currency interest rate swaps, foreign currency futures contracts, foreign currency forward contracts and options to mitigate the foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities. 
  Changes to the composition of our derivatives portfolio during   2015   reflect actions taken for interest rate and foreign exchange rate risk management. The decisions to reposition our derivatives portfolio are based on the current assessment of economic and financial conditions including the interest rate and foreign currency  

environments, balance sheet composition and trends, and the relative mix of our cash and derivative positions. 
  Table 60   presents derivatives utilized in our ALM activities including those designated as accounting and economic hedging instruments and shows the notional amount, fair value, weighted- 

average receive-fixed and pay-fixed rates, expected maturity and average estimated durations of our open ALM derivatives at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . These amounts do not include derivative hedges on our MSRs. 

(1)   
    Does not include basis adjustments on either fixed-rate debt issued by the Corporation or AFS debt securities, which are hedged using derivatives designated as fair value hedging instruments, that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives. 
               (2)   
    At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the notional amount of same-currency basis swaps included   $75.2 billion   and   $94.4 billion   in both foreign currency and U.S. Dollar-denominated basis swaps in which both sides of the swap are in the same currency. 
               (3)   
    Foreign exchange basis swaps consisted of cross-currency variable interest rate swaps used separately or in conjunction with receive-fixed interest rate swaps. 
               (4)   
    Does not include foreign currency translation adjustments on certain non-U.S. debt issued by the Corporation that substantially offset the fair values of these derivatives. 
                (6)   
    Reflects the net of long and short positions. Amounts shown as negative reflect a net short position. 
               (7)   
    The notional amount of foreign exchange contracts of   $(25.4) billion   at   December 31, 2015   was comprised of   $21.3 billion   in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps,   $(40.3) billion   in net foreign currency forward rate contracts,   $(7.6) billion   in foreign currency-denominated pay-fixed swaps and   $1.2 billion   in net foreign currency futures contracts. Foreign exchange contracts of   $(22.6) billion   at   December 31, 2014   were comprised of   $21.0 billion   in foreign currency-denominated and cross-currency receive-fixed swaps,   $(36.4) billion   in net foreign currency forward rate contracts,   $(8.3) billion   in foreign currency-denominated pay-fixed swaps and   $1.1 billion   in foreign currency futures contracts. 

We use interest rate derivative instruments to hedge the variability in the cash flows of our assets and liabilities and other forecasted transactions (collectively referred to as cash flow hedges). The net losses on both open and terminated cash flow hedge derivative instruments recorded in accumulated OCI were   $1.7 billion   and   $2.7 billion  , on a pretax basis, at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . These net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings in the same period as the hedged cash flows affect earnings and will decrease income or increase expense on the respective hedged cash flows. Assuming no change in open cash flow derivative hedge positions and no changes in prices or interest rates beyond what is implied in forward yield curves at   December 31, 2015  , the pretax net losses are expected to be reclassified into earnings as follows:   $563 million  , or 33 percent within the next year, 37 percent in years two through five, and 20 percent in years six through ten, with the remaining 10 percent thereafter. For more information on derivatives designated as cash flow hedges, see   Note 2   Derivatives     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  We hedge our net investment in non-U.S. operations determined to have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar using forward foreign exchange contracts that typically settle in less than 180 days, cross-currency basis swaps and foreign exchange options. We recorded net after-tax losses on derivatives in accumulated OCI associated with net investment hedges which were offset by gains on our net investments in consolidated non-U.S. entities at   December 31, 2015  . 
    Mortgage Banking Risk Management 
  We originate, fund and service mortgage loans, which subject us to credit, liquidity and interest rate risks, among others. We determine whether loans will be HFI or held-for-sale at the time of commitment and manage credit and liquidity risks by selling or securitizing a portion of the loans we originate. 
  Interest rate risk and market risk can be substantial in the mortgage business. Fluctuations in interest rates drive consumer demand for new mortgages and the level of refinancing activity, which in turn affects total origination and servicing income. Hedging the various sources of interest rate risk in mortgage banking is a complex process that requires complex modeling and ongoing monitoring. Typically, an increase in mortgage interest rates will lead to a decrease in mortgage originations and related fees. IRLCs and the related residential first mortgage LHFS are subject to interest rate risk between the date of the IRLC and the date the loans are sold to the secondary market, as an increase in mortgage interest rates will typically lead to a decrease in the value of these instruments. 
  MSRs are nonfinancial assets created when the underlying mortgage loan is sold to investors and we retain the right to service the loan. Typically, an increase in mortgage rates will lead to an increase in the value of the MSRs driven by lower prepayment expectations. This increase in value from increases in mortgage rates is opposite of, and therefore offsets, the risk described for IRLCs and LHFS. Because the interest rate risks of these two hedged items offset, we combine them into one overall hedged item with one combined economic hedge portfolio. 
  Interest rate and certain market risks of IRLCs and residential mortgage LHFS are economically hedged in combination with MSRs. To hedge these combined assets, we use certain derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward sale commitments, eurodollar and U.S. Treasury futures,  

and mortgage TBAs, as well as other securities including agency MBS, principal-only and interest-only MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. During   2015   and   2014  , we recorded gains in mortgage banking income of $360 million and $357 million related to the change in fair value of the derivative contracts and other securities used to hedge the market risks of the MSRs, IRLCs and LHFS, net of gains and losses due to changes in fair value of these hedged items. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights   to the Consolidated Financial Statements and for more information on mortgage banking income, see   Consumer Banking   on page   33  . 
    Compliance Risk Management 
  Compliance risk is the risk of legal or regulatory sanctions, material financial loss or damage to the reputation of the Corporation arising from the failure of the Corporation to comply with the requirements of applicable laws, rules, regulations and related self-regulatory organizations  standards and codes of conduct (collectively, applicable laws, rules and regulations). Global Compliance independently assesses compliance risk, and evaluates FLUs and control functions for adherence to applicable laws, rules and regulations, including identifying compliance issues and risks, performing monitoring and independent testing, and reporting on the state of compliance activities across the Corporation. Additionally, Global Compliance works with FLUs and control functions so that day-to-day activities operate in a compliant manner. For more information on FLUs and control functions, see   Managing Risk   on page   49  . 
  The Corporation s approach to the management of compliance risk is described in the Global Compliance   Enterprise Policy, which outlines the requirements of the Corporation s global compliance program, and defines roles and responsibilities related to the implementation, execution and management of the compliance program by Global Compliance. The requirements work together to drive a comprehensive risk-based approach for the proactive identification, management and escalation of compliance risks throughout the Corporation. 
  The Global Compliance   Enterprise Policy sets the requirements for reporting compliance risk information to executive management as well as the Board or appropriate Board-level committees with an outline for conducting objective independent oversight of the Corporation s compliance risk management activities. The Board provides oversight of compliance risk through its Audit Committee and ERC. 
    Operational Risk Management 
  The Corporation defines operational risk as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or from external events. Operational risk may occur anywhere in the Corporation, including third-party business processes, and is not limited to operations functions. Effects may extend beyond financial losses and may result in reputational risk impacts. Operational risk includes legal risk. Successful operational risk management is particularly important to diversified financial services companies because of the nature, volume and complexity of the financial services business. Operational risk is a significant component in the calculation of total risk-weighted assets used in the Basel 3 capital calculation under the Advanced approaches. For more information on Basel 3 Advanced approaches, see   Capital Management   Advanced Approaches   on page   55  .  

We approach operational risk management from two perspectives within the structure of the Corporation: (1) at the enterprise level to provide independent, integrated management of operational risk across the organization, and (2) at the business and control function levels to address operational risk in revenue producing and non-revenue producing units. The Operational Risk Management Program addresses the overarching processes for identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling operational risk, and reporting operational risk information to management and the Board. A sound internal governance structure enhances the effectiveness of the Corporation s Operational Risk Management Program and is accomplished at the enterprise level through formal oversight by the Board, the ERC, the CRO and a variety of management committees and risk oversight groups aligned to the Corporation s overall risk governance framework and practices. Of these, the MRC oversees the Corporation s policies and processes for sound operational risk management. The MRC also serves as an escalation point for critical operational risk matters within the Corporation. The MRC reports operational risk activities to the ERC. The independent operational risk management teams oversee the businesses and control functions to monitor adherence to the Operational Risk Management Program and advise and challenge operational risk exposures. 
  Within the Global Risk Management organization, the Enterprise Operational Risk team develops and guides the strategies, enterprise-wide policies, practices, controls and monitoring tools for assessing and managing operational risks across the organization. The Enterprise Operational Risk team reports results to businesses, control functions, senior management, management committees, the ERC and the Board. 
  The businesses and control functions are responsible for assessing, monitoring and managing all the risks within their units, including operational risks. In addition to enterprise risk management tools such as loss reporting, scenario analysis and RCSAs, operational risk executives, working in conjunction with senior business executives, have developed key tools to help identify, measure, monitor and control risk in each business and control function. Examples of these include personnel management practices; data management, data quality controls and related processes; fraud management units; cybersecurity controls, processes and systems; transaction processing, monitoring and analysis; business recovery planning; and new product introduction processes. The business and control functions are also responsible for consistently implementing and monitoring adherence to corporate practices. 
  Business and control function management uses the enterprise RCSA process to capture the identification and assessment of operational risk exposures and evaluate the status of risk and control issues including risk mitigation plans, as appropriate. The goals of this process are to assess changing market and business conditions, evaluate key risks impacting each business and control function, and assess the controls in place to mitigate the risks. Key operational risk indicators have been developed and are used to assist in identifying trends and issues on an enterprise, business and control function level. Independent review and challenge to the Corporation s overall operational risk management framework is performed by the Corporate Operational Risk Program Adherence Team and reported through the operational risk governance committees and management routines. 
  Where appropriate, insurance policies are purchased to mitigate the impact of operational losses. These insurance  

policies are explicitly incorporated in the structural features of operational risk evaluation. As insurance recoveries, especially given recent market events, are subject to legal and financial uncertainty, the inclusion of these insurance policies is subject to reductions in their expected mitigating benefits. 
    Reputational Risk Management 
  Reputational risk is the risk that negative perceptions of the Corporation s conduct or business practices will adversely affect its profitability or operations through an inability to establish new or maintain existing customer/client relationships. Reputational risk may result from many of the Corporation s activities, including those related to the management of our strategic, operational, compliance and credit risks. 
  The Corporation manages reputational risk through established policies and controls in its businesses and risk management processes to mitigate reputational risks in a timely manner and through proactive monitoring and identification of potential reputational risk events. The Corporation has processes and procedures in place to respond to events that give rise to reputational risk, including educating individuals and organizations that influence public opinion, external communication strategies to mitigate the risk, and informing key stakeholders of potential reputational risks.  
  The Corporation s organization and governance structure provides oversight of reputational risks, and key risk indicators are reported regularly and directly to management and the ERC, which provides primary oversight of reputational risk. In addition, each FLU has a committee, which includes representatives from Compliance, Legal and Risk, that is responsible for the oversight of reputational risk. Such committees  oversight includes providing approval for business activities that present elevated levels of reputational risks.  
    Complex Accounting Estimates 
  Our significant accounting principles, as described in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  , are essential in understanding the MD A. Many of our significant accounting principles require complex judgments to estimate the values of assets and liabilities. We have procedures and processes in place to facilitate making these judgments. 
  The more judgmental estimates are summarized in the following discussion. We have identified and described the development of the variables most important in the estimation processes that involve mathematical models to derive the estimates. In many cases, there are numerous alternative judgments that could be used in the process of determining the inputs to the models. Where alternatives exist, we have used the factors that we believe represent the most reasonable value in developing the inputs. Actual performance that differs from our estimates of the key variables could impact our results of operations. Separate from the possible future impact to our results of operations from input and model variables, the value of our lending portfolio and market-sensitive assets and liabilities may change subsequent to the balance sheet date, often significantly, due to the nature and magnitude of future credit and market conditions. Such credit and market conditions may change quickly and in unforeseen ways and the resulting volatility could have a significant, negative effect on future operating results. These fluctuations would not be indicative of deficiencies in our models or inputs. 

Allowance for Credit Losses 
  The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation s loan portfolio excluding those loans accounted for under the fair value option. Our process for determining the allowance for credit losses is discussed in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . We evaluate our allowance at the portfolio segment level and our portfolio segments are Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. Due to the variability in the drivers of the assumptions used in this process, estimates of the portfolio s inherent risks and overall collectability change with changes in the economy, individual industries, countries, and borrowers  ability and willingness to repay their obligations. The degree to which any particular assumption affects the allowance for credit losses depends on the severity of the change and its relationship to the other assumptions. 
  Key judgments used in determining the allowance for credit losses include risk ratings for pools of commercial loans and leases, market and collateral values and discount rates for individually evaluated loans, product type classifications for consumer and commercial loans and leases, loss rates used for consumer and commercial loans and leases, adjustments made to address current events and conditions (e.g., the recent sharp drop in oil prices), considerations regarding domestic and global economic uncertainty, and overall credit conditions. 
  Our estimate for the allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the loss rates and expected cash flows from our Consumer Real Estate and Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segments, as well as our U.S. small business commercial card portfolio within the Commercial portfolio segment. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment in our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, excluding PCI loans, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the discounted cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within this portfolio segment, the allowance for loan and lease losses at   December 31, 2015   would have increased by $71 million. PCI loans within our Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment are initially recorded at fair value. Applicable accounting guidance prohibits carry-over or creation of valuation allowances in the initial accounting. However, subsequent decreases in the expected cash flows from the date of acquisition result in a charge to the provision for credit losses and a corresponding increase to the allowance for loan and lease losses. We subject our PCI portfolio to stress scenarios to evaluate the potential impact given certain events. A one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows could result in a $151 million impairment of the portfolio. For each one-percent increase in the loss rates on loans collectively evaluated for impairment within our Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, coupled with a one-percent decrease in the expected cash flows on those loans individually evaluated for impairment within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio, the allowance for loan and lease losses at   December 31, 2015   would have increased by $38 million. 
  Our allowance for loan and lease losses is sensitive to the risk ratings assigned to loans and leases within the Commercial portfolio segment (excluding the U.S. small business commercial card portfolio). Assuming a downgrade of one level in the internal  

risk ratings for commercial loans and leases, except loans and leases already risk-rated Doubtful as defined by regulatory authorities, the allowance for loan and lease losses would have increased by $3.2 billion at   December 31, 2015  . 
  The allowance for loan and lease losses as a percentage of total loans and leases at   December 31, 2015   was   1.37 percent   and these hypothetical increases in the allowance would raise the ratio to 1.75 percent. 
  These sensitivity analyses do not represent management s expectations of the deterioration in risk ratings or the increases in loss rates but are provided as hypothetical scenarios to assess the sensitivity of the allowance for loan and lease losses to changes in key inputs. We believe the risk ratings and loss severities currently in use are appropriate and that the probability of the alternative scenarios outlined above occurring within a short period of time is remote. 
  The process of determining the level of the allowance for credit losses requires a high degree of judgment. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach different reasonable conclusions. 
  For more information on the FASB s proposed standard on accounting for credit losses, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  MSRs are nonfinancial assets that are created when a mortgage loan is sold and we retain the right to service the loan. We account for consumer MSRs, including residential mortgage and home equity MSRs, at fair value with changes in fair value primarily recorded in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  We determine the fair value of our consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income. The model incorporates key economic assumptions including estimates of prepayment rates and resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs, and the option-adjusted spread levels. These variables can, and generally do, change from quarter to quarter as market conditions and projected interest rates change. These assumptions are subjective in nature and changes in these assumptions could materially affect our operating results. For example, increasing the prepayment rate assumption used in the valuation of our consumer MSRs by 10 percent while keeping all other assumptions unchanged could have resulted in an estimated decrease of   $163 million   in both MSRs and mortgage banking income for   2015  . This impact does not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk. 
  We manage potential changes in the fair value of MSRs through a comprehensive risk management program. The intent is to mitigate the effects of changes in the fair value of MSRs through the use of risk management instruments. To reduce the sensitivity of earnings to interest rate and market value fluctuations, securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities, as well as certain derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs, but are not designated as accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value primarily recognized in mortgage banking income. For additional information, see   Mortgage Banking Risk Management   on page   99  . 

For more information on MSRs, including the sensitivity of weighted-average lives and the fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  We classify the fair values of financial instruments   based on the fair value hierarchy established under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.   Applicable accounting guidance establishes three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. We carry trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, other debt securities, consumer MSRs and certain other assets at fair value. Also, we account for certain loans and loan commitments, LHFS, short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, asset-backed secured financings, long-term deposits and long-term debt under the fair value option. 
  The fair values of assets and liabilities may include adjustments, such as market liquidity and credit quality, where appropriate. Valuations of products using models or other techniques are sensitive to assumptions used for the significant inputs. Where market data is available, the inputs used for valuation reflect that information as of our valuation date. Inputs to valuation models are considered unobservable if they are supported by little or no market activity. In periods of extreme volatility, lessened liquidity or in illiquid markets, there may be more variability in market pricing or a lack of market data to use in the valuation process. In keeping with the prudent application of estimates and management judgment in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities, we have in place various processes and controls that include: a model validation policy that requires review and approval of quantitative models used for deal pricing, financial statement fair value determination and risk quantification; a trading product valuation policy that requires verification of all traded product valuations; and a periodic review  

and substantiation of daily profit and loss reporting for all traded products. Primarily through validation controls, we utilize both broker and pricing service inputs which can and do include both market-observable and internally-modeled values and/or valuation inputs. Our reliance on this information is affected by our understanding of how the broker and/or pricing service develops its data with a higher degree of reliance applied to those that are more directly observable and lesser reliance applied to those developed through their own internal modeling. Similarly, broker quotes that are executable are given a higher level of reliance than indicative broker quotes, which are not executable. These processes and controls are performed independently of the business. For additional information, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 21   Fair Value Option     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  .  
  In 2014, we implemented an FVA into valuation estimates primarily to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where we are not permitted to use the collateral received. This change resulted in a pretax net FVA charge of   $497 million   at the time of implementation. Significant judgment is required in modeling expected exposure profiles and in discounting for the funding risk premium inherent in these derivatives. 
  Level 3 Assets and Liabilities 
  Financial assets and liabilities where values are based on valuation techniques that require inputs that are both unobservable and are significant to the overall fair value measurement are classified as Level 3 under the fair value hierarchy established in applicable accounting guidance. The Level 3 financial assets and liabilities include certain loans, MBS, ABS, CDOs, CLOs and structured liabilities, highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts and consumer MSRs. The fair value of these Level 3 financial assets and liabilities is determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 

(1)   
    Level 3 total assets and liabilities are shown before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting related to derivative positions. 

Level 3 financial instruments may be hedged with derivatives classified as Level 1 or 2; therefore, gains or losses associated with Level 3 financial instruments may be offset by gains or losses associated with financial instruments classified in other levels of the fair value hierarchy. The Level 3 gains and losses recorded in earnings did not have a significant impact on our liquidity or capital. We conduct a review of our fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of Level 3 are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For more information on the significant transfers into and out of Level 3 during   2015   and   2014  , see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 
  Accrued Income Taxes and Deferred Tax Assets 
  Accrued income taxes, reported as a component of either other assets or accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net amount of current income taxes we expect to pay to or receive from various taxing jurisdictions attributable to our operations to date. We currently file income tax returns in more than   100   jurisdictions and consider many factors, including statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance  ,   in estimating the appropriate accrued income taxes for each jurisdiction. 
  Consistent with the applicable accounting guidance, we monitor relevant tax authorities and change our estimate of accrued income taxes due to changes in income tax laws and their interpretation by the courts and regulatory authorities. These revisions of our estimate of accrued income taxes, which also may result from our income tax planning and from the resolution of income tax controversies, may be material to our operating results for any given period. 
  Net deferred tax assets, reported as a component of other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, represent the net decrease in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards and because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. NOL and tax credit carryforwards result in reductions to future tax liabilities, and many of these attributes can expire if not utilized within certain periods. We consider the need for valuation allowances to reduce net deferred tax assets to the amounts that we estimate are more-likely-than-not to be realized. 
  While we have established valuation allowances for certain state and non-U.S. deferred tax assets, we have concluded that no valuation allowance was necessary with respect to nearly all U.S. federal and U.K. deferred tax assets, including NOL and tax credit carryforwards. The majority of U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Management s conclusion is supported by financial results and forecasts, the reorganization of certain business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. However, significant changes to our estimates, such as changes that would be caused by substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe s capital markets, or to applicable tax laws, such as laws affecting the realizability of NOLs or other deferred tax assets,  

could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions. See   Note 19   Income Taxes     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for a table of significant tax attributes and additional information. For more information, see page   14   under Item 1A. Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Background 
  The nature of and accounting for goodwill and intangible assets are discussed in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 8   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . Goodwill is reviewed for potential impairment at the reporting unit level on an annual basis, which for the Corporation is as of June 30, and in interim periods if events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment. A reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below. As reporting units are determined after an acquisition or evolve with changes in business strategy, goodwill is assigned to reporting units and it no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition. All of the revenue streams and related activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organic, are available to support the value of the goodwill. 
  Effective January 1, 2015, the Corporation changed its basis of presentation related to its business segments. The realignment triggered a test for goodwill impairment, which was performed both immediately before and after the realignment. In performing the goodwill impairment test, the Corporation compared the fair value of the affected reporting units with their carrying value as measured by allocated equity. The fair value of the affected reporting units exceeded their carrying value and, accordingly, no goodwill impairment resulted from the realignment. 
  2015   Annual Impairment Test 
  Estimating the fair value of reporting units is a subjective process that involves the use of estimates and judgments, particularly related to cash flows, the appropriate discount rates and an applicable control premium. We determined the fair values of the reporting units using a combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach and the income approach and also utilized independent valuation specialists. 
  The market approach we used estimates the fair value of the individual reporting units by incorporating any combination of the tangible capital, book capital and earnings multiples from comparable publicly-traded companies in industries similar to the reporting unit. The relative weight assigned to these multiples varies among the reporting units based on qualitative and quantitative characteristics, primarily the size and relative profitability of the reporting unit as compared to the comparable publicly-traded companies. Since the fair values determined under the market approach are representative of a noncontrolling interest, we added a control premium to arrive at the reporting units  estimated fair values on a controlling basis. 
  For purposes of the income approach, we calculated discounted cash flows by taking the net present value of estimated future cash flows and an appropriate terminal value. Our discounted cash flow analysis employs a capital asset pricing model in estimating the discount rate (i.e., cost of equity financing) for each reporting unit. The inputs to this model include the risk-free rate of return, beta, which is a measure of the level of non-diversifiable risk associated with comparable companies for each  

specific reporting unit, market equity risk premium and in certain cases an unsystematic (company-specific) risk factor. The unsystematic risk factor is the input that specifically addresses uncertainty related to our projections of earnings and growth, including the uncertainty related to loss expectations. We utilized discount rates that we believe adequately reflect the risk and uncertainty in the financial markets generally and specifically in our internally developed forecasts. We estimated expected rates of equity returns based on historical market returns and risk/return rates for industries similar to each reporting unit. We use our internal forecasts to estimate future cash flows and actual results may differ from forecasted results. 
  We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30,   2015   for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. In performing the first step of the annual goodwill impairment analysis, we compared the fair value of each reporting unit to its estimated carrying value as measured by allocated equity, which includes goodwill. We also evaluated the U.K. Card business within   All Other  , as the U.K. Card business comprises substantially all of the goodwill included in   All Other  . To determine fair value, we utilized a combination of the market approach and the income approach. Under the market approach, we compared earnings and equity multiples of the individual reporting units to multiples of public companies comparable to the individual reporting units. The control premium used in the June 30,   2015   annual goodwill impairment test was 30 percent, based upon observed comparable premiums paid for change in control transactions for financial institutions, for all reporting units. The discount rates used in the June 30,   2015   annual goodwill impairment test ranged from 10.2 percent to 13.7 percent depending on the relative risk of a reporting unit. Growth rates developed by management for individual revenue and expense items in each reporting unit ranged from negative 3.5 percent to positive 8.0 percent.  
  The Corporation s market capitalization remained below our recorded book value during   2015  . As none of our reporting units are publicly-traded, individual reporting unit fair value determinations may not directly correlate to the Corporation s market capitalization. We considered the comparison of the aggregate fair value of the reporting units with assigned goodwill to the Corporation s market capitalization as of June 30, 2015. Although we believe it is reasonable to conclude that market capitalization could be an indicator of fair value over time, we do not believe that our current market capitalization would reflect the aggregate fair value of our individual reporting units with assigned goodwill, as reporting units with no assigned goodwill have not been valued and are excluded (e.g.,   LAS  ) from the comparison and our market capitalization does not include consideration of individual reporting unit control premiums. Although the individual reporting units have considered the impact of recent regulatory changes in their forecasts and valuations, overall regulatory and market uncertainties persist that we believe further impact the Corporation s stock price.  
  Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their fair value exceeded their carrying value indicating there was no impairment. 

2014   Annual Impairment Test 
  We completed our annual goodwill impairment test as of June 30,   2014   for all of our reporting units that had goodwill. We also evaluated the U.K. Card business within   All Other,   as the U.K. Card business comprises the majority of the goodwill included in   All Other.  
  Based on the results of step one of the annual goodwill impairment test, we determined that step two was not required for any of the reporting units as their fair value exceeded their carrying value indicating there was no impairment.  
  Representations and Warranties Liability 
  The methodology used to estimate the liability for obligations under representations and warranties related to transfers of residential mortgage loans is a function of the type of representations and warranties provided in the sales contract and considers a variety of factors. Depending upon the counterparty, these factors include actual defaults, estimated future defaults, historical loss experience, estimated home prices, other economic conditions, estimated probability that we will receive a repurchase request, number of payments made by the borrower prior to default and estimated probability that we will be required to repurchase a loan. It also considers other relevant facts and circumstances, such as bulk settlements and identity of the counterparty or type of counterparty, as appropriate. The estimate of the liability for obligations under representations and warranties is based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors, including those set forth above, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the estimate of our liability. 
  The representations and warranties provision may vary significantly each period as the methodology used to estimate the expense continues to be refined based on the level and type of repurchase requests presented, defects identified, the latest experience gained on repurchase requests and other relevant facts and circumstances. The estimate of the liability for representations and warranties is sensitive to future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate. An assumed simultaneous increase or decrease of   10 percent   in estimated future defaults, loss severity and the net repurchase rate would result in an increase or decrease of approximately   $300 million   in the representations and warranties liability as of   December 31, 2015  . These sensitivities are hypothetical and are intended to provide an indication of the impact of a significant change in these key assumptions on the representations and warranties liability. In reality, changes in one assumption may result in changes in other assumptions, which may or may not counteract the sensitivity. 
  For more information on representations and warranties exposure and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss, see   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Representations and Warranties   on page   46  , as well as   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees   and   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

Litigation Reserve 
  For a limited number of the matters disclosed in   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible in future periods, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, we are able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to provide an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its material litigation and regulatory matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. These may include information learned through the discovery process, rulings on dispositive motions, settlement discussions, and other rulings by courts, arbitrators or others. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient information to develop an estimate of loss or range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed in   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . For other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible, such an estimate is not possible. Those matters for which an estimate is not possible are not included within this estimated range. Therefore, the estimated range of possible loss represents what we believe to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation s maximum loss exposure. Information is provided in   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies     to the Consolidated Financial Statements   regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies. 
  Consolidation and Accounting for Variable Interest Entities 
  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, an entity that has a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (VIE) is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. 
  Determining whether an entity has a controlling financial interest in a VIE requires significant judgment. An entity must assess the purpose and design of the VIE, including explicit and implicit contractual arrangements, and the entity s involvement in both the design of the VIE and its ongoing activities. The entity must then determine which activities have the most significant impact on the economic performance of the VIE and whether the entity has the power to direct such activities. For VIEs that hold financial assets, the party that services the assets or makes investment management decisions may have the power to direct the most significant activities of a VIE. Alternatively, a third party that has the unilateral right to replace the servicer or investment manager or to liquidate the VIE may be deemed to be the party with power. If there are no significant ongoing activities, the party that was responsible for the design of the VIE may be deemed to  

have power. If the entity determines that it has the power to direct the most significant activities of the VIE, then the entity must determine if it has either an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. Such economic interests may include investments in debt or equity instruments issued by the VIE, liquidity commitments, and explicit and implicit guarantees. 
  On a quarterly basis, we reassess whether we have a controlling financial interest and are the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether we have acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether we have acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which we are involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying values of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements. 
    2014 Compared to 2013 
  The following discussion and analysis provide a comparison of our results of operations for   2014   and   2013  . This discussion should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes. Tables   8   and   9   contain financial data to supplement this discussion. 
    Overview 
  Net Income 
  Net income was   $4.8 billion   in   2014   compared to   $11.4 billion   in   2013  . Including preferred stock dividends, net income applicable to common shareholders was   $3.8 billion  , or   $0.36   per diluted share in   2014   and   $10.1 billion  , or   $0.90   per diluted share in   2013  . 
  Net Interest Income 
  Net interest income on an FTE basis decreased   $2.3 billion   to   $40.8 billion   in   2014   compared to   2013  . The net interest yield on an FTE basis decreased 12 bps to   2.25 percent   in   2014  . These declines were primarily due to the acceleration of market-related premium amortization on debt securities as the decline in long-term interest rates shortened the expected lives of the securities. Also contributing to these declines were lower loan yields and consumer loan balances, lower net interest income from the ALM portfolio and a decrease in trading-related net interest income. Market-related premium amortization was an expense of $1.2 billion in   2014   compared to a benefit of $784 million in   2013  . Partially offsetting these declines were reductions in funding yields, lower long-term debt balances and commercial loan growth.  

Noninterest Income 
  Noninterest income was   $44.3 billion   in   2014  , a decrease of   $2.4 billion   compared to   2013  . 
             
    Investment and brokerage services income   increased     $1.0 billion   primarily driven by increased asset management fees driven by the impact of long-term AUM inflows and higher market levels. 
                
    Equity investment income   decreased     $1.8 billion   to   $1.1 billion   in   2014   primarily due to a lower level of gains compared to   2013   and the continued wind-down of GPI.  
                 
    Mortgage banking income   decreased     $2.3 billion   primarily driven by lower servicing income and core production revenue, partially offset by a lower representations and warranties provision. 
                
    Other income (loss)   improved     $1.3 billion   due to an increase of $1.1 billion in net DVA gains on structured liabilities as our spreads widened, and gains associated with the sales of residential mortgage loans, partially offset by an increase in U.K. consumer PPI costs. Results for   2013   also included a write-down of $450 million on a monoline receivable.  
     Provision for Credit Losses 
  The provision for credit losses was   $2.3 billion   in   2014  , a   decrease   of   $1.3 billion   compared to   2013  . The provision for credit losses was   $2.1 billion   lower than net charge-offs for   2014  , resulting in a reduction in the allowance for credit losses. The   decrease   in the provision from   2013   was driven by portfolio improvement, including increased home prices in the consumer real estate portfolio and lower unemployment levels driving improvement in the credit card portfolios, as well as improved asset quality in the commercial portfolio. Partially offsetting this decline was $400 million of additional costs in   2014   associated with the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement. 
  Net charge-offs totaled   $4.4 billion  , or   0.49   percent of average loans and leases in   2014   compared to $7.9 billion, or 0.87 percent in   2013  . The decrease in net charge-offs was due to credit quality improvement across all major portfolios and the impact of increased recoveries primarily from nonperforming and delinquent loan sales. 
  Noninterest Expense 
  Noninterest expense was   $75.1 billion   in   2014  , an increase of   $5.9 billion   compared to   2013  . The increase was primarily driven by higher litigation expense. Litigation expense increased $10.3 billion primarily as a result of charges related to the settlements with the DoJ and the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA). The increase in litigation expense was partially offset by a decrease of $3.2 billion in default-related staffing and other default-related servicing expenses in   LAS  . 
  Income Tax Expense 
  The income tax expense was   $2.0 billion   on pretax income of   $6.9 billion   in   2014   compared to income tax expense of   $4.7 billion   in   2013  . The effective tax rate for   2014   was   29.5 percent   and was driven by our recurring tax preference items, the resolution of several tax examinations and tax benefits from non-U.S.  

restructurings, partially offset by the non-deductible treatment of certain litigation charges. 
  The effective tax rate for   2013   was   29.3 percent   and was driven by our recurring tax preference items and by certain tax benefits related to non-U.S. operations, partially offset by the   $1.1 billion   negative impact from the U.K. 2013 Finance Act, enacted in July 2013, which reduced the U.K. corporate income tax rate by three percent. The   $1.1 billion   charge resulted from remeasuring our U.K. net deferred tax assets, in the period of enactment, using the lower rates. 
    Business Segment Operations 
  Consumer Banking 
  Consumer Banking   recorded net income of   $6.4 billion   in   2014   compared to   $6.3 billion   in   2013   with the increase primarily driven by lower noninterest expense and provision for credit losses, partially offset by lower revenue. Net interest income decreased   $442 million   to   $20.2 billion   in   2014   due to lower average card loan balances and yields, partially offset by the beneficial impact of an increase in investable assets as a result of higher deposit balances. Noninterest income decreased   $681 million   to   $10.6 billion   in   2014   primarily due to lower mortgage banking income and lower revenue from consumer protection products, partially offset by portfolio divestiture gains, and higher service charges and card income. The provision for credit losses decreased   $486 million   to   $2.7 billion   in   2014   primarily as a result of improvements in credit quality. Noninterest expense decreased   $1.0 billion   to   $17.9 billion   in   2014   primarily driven by lower personnel, operating, litigation and FDIC expenses. 
  Global Wealth   Investment Management 
  GWIM   recorded net income of   $3.0 billion   in both   2014   and   2013   as an increase in noninterest income and lower credit costs were offset by lower net interest income and higher noninterest expense. Net interest income decreased   $228 million   to   $5.8 billion   in   2014   as a result of the low rate environment, partially offset by the impact of loan growth. Noninterest income, primarily investment and brokerage services, increased   $842 million   to   $12.6 billion   in   2014   driven by increased asset management fees due to the impact of long-term AUM flows and higher market levels, partially offset by lower transactional revenue. Noninterest expense increased   $615 million   to   $13.7 billion   in   2014   primarily due to higher revenue-related incentive compensation and support expenses, partially offset by lower other expenses. 
  Global Banking 
  Global Banking   recorded net income of   $5.8 billion   in   2014   compared to   $5.2 billion   in   2013   with the increase primarily driven by a reduction in the provision for credit losses and, to a lesser degree, an increase in revenue, partially offset by higher noninterest expense. Revenue increased   $171 million   to $  17.6 billion   in   2014   primarily from higher net interest income. The provision for credit losses decreased   $820 million   to   $322 million   in   2014   driven by improved credit quality, and   2013   included increased reserves from loan growth. Noninterest expense increased   $119 million   to   $8.2 billion   in   2014   primarily from additional client-facing personnel expense and higher litigation expense. 

Global Markets 
  Global Markets   recorded net income of   $2.7 billion   in   2014   compared to   $1.1 billion   in   2013  . In   2014  , we implemented an FVA into valuation estimates resulting in an initial charge of   $497 million  . Excluding net DVA/FVA and charges in   2013   related to the U.K. corporate income tax rate reduction, net income decreased $135 million to $2.9 billion in   2014   primarily driven by lower trading account profits and net interest income, partially offset by a decrease in noninterest expense, a $240 million gain in   2014   related to the IPO of an equity investment and higher investment and brokerage services income. Net DVA/FVA losses were   $240 million   in   2014   compared to losses of   $1.2 billion   in   2013  . Noninterest expense decreased   $232 million   to   $11.9 billion   in   2014   due to lower litigation expense and revenue-related incentives, partially offset by higher technology costs and investments in infrastructure. 
  Legacy Assets   Servicing 
  LAS   recorded a net loss of   $13.1 billion   in   2014   compared to a net loss of   $4.9 billion   in   2013   with the increase in the net loss primarily driven by significantly higher litigation expense, which is included in noninterest expense, as a result of the settlements with the DoJ and FHFA, a lower tax benefit rate resulting from the non-deductible treatment of a portion of the DoJ Settlement, lower mortgage banking income and higher provision for credit losses.  

Mortgage banking income decreased $1.6 billion to   $1.0 billion   in   2014   primarily due to lower servicing income, partially offset by a lower representations and warranties provision. The provision for credit losses increased   $410 million   to   $127 million   in   2014   driven by additional costs associated with the consumer relief portion of the DoJ Settlement. Noninterest expense increased   $8.2 billion   to   $20.6 billion   in   2014   due to an $11.4 billion increase in litigation expense, partially offset by a decline in default-related servicing expenses, including mortgage-related assessments, waivers and similar costs related to foreclosure delays. 
  All Other 
  All Other   recorded net income of   $64 million   in   2014   compared to   $717 million   in   2013   with the decrease due to the negative impact on net interest income of market-related premium amortization expense on debt securities of $1.2 billion in   2014   compared to a benefit of $784 million in   2013  , a decrease of $2.0 billion in equity investment income and a $363 million increase in U.K. PPI costs. Partially offsetting these decreases were gains related to the sales of residential mortgage loans, a   $313 million   improvement in the provision (benefit) for credit losses and a decrease of   $1.8 billion   in noninterest expense. The decrease in noninterest expense was primarily due to a decline in litigation expense. Also, the income tax benefit increased   $547 million  . 

Statistical Tables  

Table of Contents 

Page 
       Table I   Average Balances and Interest Rates   FTE Basis  
      
    109 
       Table II   Analysis of Changes in Net Interest Income   FTE Basis  
      
    110 
       Table III   Preferred Stock Cash Dividend Summary  
      
    111 
       Table IV   Outstanding Loans and Leases  
      
    113 
       Table V   Allowance for Credit Losses  
      
    114 
       Table VI   Allocation of the Allowance for Credit Losses by Product Type  
      
    116 
       Table VII   Selected Loan Maturity Data  
      
    116 
       Table VIII   Non-exchange Traded Commodity Contracts  
      
    117 
       Table IX   Non-exchange Traded Commodity Contract Maturities  
      
    117 
       Table X   Selected Quarterly Financial Data  
      
    118 
       Table XI   Quarterly Average Balances and Interest Rates   FTE Basis  
      
    120 
       Table XII   Quarterly Supplemental Financial Data  
      
    122 
       Table XIII   Five-year Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures  
      
    123 
       Table XIV   Two-year Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures  
      
    124 
       Table XV   Quarterly Reconciliations to GAAP Financial Measures  
      
    125 

(1)   
    Beginning in 2014, interest-bearing deposits placed with the Federal Reserve and certain non-U.S. central banks are included in earning assets. In prior periods, these balances were included with cash and due from banks in the cash and cash equivalents line, consistent with the Consolidated Balance Sheet presentation. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 
               (2)   
    Yields on debt securities excluding the impact of market-related adjustments were   2.50 percent  ,   2.62 percent   and   2.67 percent   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Yields on debt securities excluding the impact of market-related adjustments are a non-GAAP financial measure. The Corporation believes the use of this non-GAAP financial measure provides additional clarity in assessing its results.  
               (3)   
    Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis. PCI loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the remaining life of the loan. 
                  (7)   
    Interest income includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest income on the underlying assets by   $59 million  ,   $58 million   and   $205 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Interest expense includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest expense on the underlying liabilities by   $2.4 billion  ,   $2.5 billion   and   $2.4 billion   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. For additional information, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   on page   97  . 
               (8)   
    The yield on long-term debt excluding the   $612 million   adjustment on certain trust preferred securities was   2.23 percent   for   2015  . For more information, see   Note 11   Long-term Debt     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . The yield on long-term debt excluding the adjustment is a non-GAAP financial measure.  

(1)   
    The changes for each category of interest income and expense are divided between the portion of change attributable to the variance in volume and the portion of change attributable to the variance in rate for that category. The unallocated change in rate or volume variance is allocated between the rate and volume variances. 
               (2)   
    Beginning in 2014, interest-bearing deposits placed with the Federal Reserve and certain non-U.S. central banks are included in earning assets. In prior periods, these balances were included with cash and due from banks in the cash and cash equivalents line, consistent with the Consolidated Balance Sheet presentation. Prior periods have been reclassified to conform to current period presentation. 

For footnotes see page   112  . 

(2)   
    Dividends are cumulative. 
               (3)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/1,000   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 
               (4)   
    Initially pays dividends semi-annually. 
               (5)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/25   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 
               (6)   
    Dividends per depositary share, each representing a 1/1,200   th    interest in a share of preferred stock. 

(3)   
    Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, and foreign currency translation adjustments. In addition, the 2011 amount includes a   $449 million   reduction in the allowance for loan and lease losses related to Canadian consumer card loans that were transferred to LHFS.  
               (4)   
    Primarily represents accretion of the Merrill Lynch purchase accounting adjustment and the impact of funding previously unfunded positions. 

(10)   
    For more information on our definition of nonperforming loans, see pages   75   and   82  . 
               (11)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to U.S. credit card and unsecured lending portfolios in   Consumer Banking  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (12)   
    For more information on the PCI loan portfolio and the valuation allowance for PCI loans, see   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases   and   Note 5   Allowance for Credit Losses     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

(1)   
    Loan maturities are based on the remaining maturities under contractual terms. 
               (2)   
    Includes loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (3)   
    Loan maturities include non-U.S. commercial and commercial real estate loans. 

(1)   
    The results for 2015 were impacted by the early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . 
               (2)   
    The diluted earnings (loss) per common share excluded the effect of any equity instruments that are antidilutive to earnings per share. There were no potential common shares that were dilutive in the third and first quarters of 2014 because of the net loss applicable to common shareholders. 
               (3)   
    Calculated as total net income (loss) for four consecutive quarters divided by annualized average assets for four consecutive quarters. 
               (4)   
    Tangible equity ratios and tangible book value per share of common stock are non-GAAP financial measures. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on these ratios, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  , and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XV. 
               (5)   
    For more information on the impact of the PCI loan portfolio on asset quality, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   on page   66  .  
               (6)   
    Includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
               (7)   
    Balances and ratios do not include loans accounted for under the fair value option. For additional exclusions from nonperforming loans, leases and foreclosed properties, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Nonperforming Consumer Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   75   and corresponding   Table 35  , and   Commercial Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Nonperforming Commercial Loans, Leases and Foreclosed Properties Activity   on page   82   and corresponding   Table 44  . 
               (8)   
    Primarily includes amounts allocated to the U.S. credit card and unsecured consumer lending portfolios in   Consumer Banking  , PCI loans and the non-U.S. credit card portfolio in   All Other  . 
               (9)   
    Net charge-offs exclude   $82 million  ,   $148 million  ,   $290 million   and   $288 million   of write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2015  , respectively, and   $13 million  ,   $246 million  ,   $160 million   and   $391 million   in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2014  , respectively. For more information on PCI write-offs, see   Consumer Portfolio Credit Risk Management   Purchased Credit-impaired Loan Portfolio   on page   73  . 
               (10)   
    Capital ratios reported under Advanced approaches in the fourth quarter of 2015. Prior to fourth quarter of 2015, we were required to report regulatory capital ratios under the Standardized approach only. For additional information, see   Capital Management   on page   53  . 
     n/m = not meaningful 

For footnotes see page   118  . 

(1)   
    Yields on debt securities excluding the impact of market-related adjustments were   2.47 percent  ,   2.50 percent  ,   2.48 percent   and   2.54 percent   in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2015  , respectively, and   2.53 percent   in the fourth quarter of   2014  . Yields on debt securities excluding the impact of market-related adjustments are a non-GAAP financial measure. The Corporation believes the use of this non-GAAP financial measure provides additional clarity in assessing its results. 
               (2)   
    Nonperforming loans are included in the respective average loan balances. Income on these nonperforming loans is generally recognized on a cost recovery basis. PCI loans were recorded at fair value upon acquisition and accrete interest income over the remaining life of the loan. 
                  (6)   
    Interest income includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest income on the underlying assets by   $32 million  ,   $8 million  ,   $8 million   and   $11 million   in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2015  , respectively, and   $10 million   in the fourth quarter of   2014  . Interest expense includes the impact of interest rate risk management contracts, which decreased interest expense on the underlying liabilities by   $681 million  ,   $590 million  ,   $509 million   and   $582 million   in the fourth, third, second and first quarters of   2015  , respectively, and   $659 million   in the fourth quarter of   2014  . For additional information, see   Interest Rate Risk Management for Non-trading Activities   on page   97  . 
               (7)   
    The yield on long-term debt excluding the   $612 million   adjustment on certain trust preferred securities was   2.15 percent   for the fourth quarter of 2015. For more information, see   Note 11   Long-term Debt     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . The yield on long-term debt excluding the adjustment is a non-GAAP financial measure.  

For footnotes see page   120  . 

(1)   
    FTE basis is a non-GAAP financial measure. FTE basis is a performance measure used by management in operating the business that management believes provides investors with a more accurate picture of the interest margin for comparative purposes. For more information on these performance measures and ratios, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30   and for corresponding reconciliations to GAAP financial measures, see Statistical Table XV. 
               (2)   
    The results for 2015 were impacted by the early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . 

(1)   
    Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  . 

(1)   
    Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation and our segments. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  . 
               (2)   
    There are no adjustments to reported net income (loss) or average allocated equity for   LAS  . 
               (3)   
    Represents cost of funds, earnings credits and certain expenses related to intangibles. 
               (4)   
    Average allocated equity is comprised of average allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the business segment. For more information on allocated capital, see   Business Segment Operations   on page   32   and   Note 8   Goodwill and Intangible Assets     to the Consolidated Financial Statements  . 

(1)   
    Presents reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these non-GAAP financial measures provides additional clarity in assessing the results of the Corporation. Other companies may define or calculate these measures differently. For more information on non-GAAP financial measures and ratios we use in assessing the results of the Corporation, see   Supplemental Financial Data   on page   30  . 
               (2)   
    The results for 2015 were impacted by the early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. For additional information, see   Executive Summary   Recent Events   on page   22  . 

Glossary 
    Alt-A Mortgage     A type of U.S. mortgage that, for various reasons, is considered riskier than A-paper, or  prime,  and less risky than  subprime,  the riskiest category. Alt-A interest rates, which are determined by credit risk, therefore tend to be between those of prime and subprime consumer real estate loans. Typically, Alt-A mortgages are characterized by borrowers with less than full documentation, lower credit scores and higher LTVs. 
  Assets in Custody     Consist largely of custodial and non-discretionary trust assets excluding brokerage assets administered for clients. Trust assets encompass a broad range of asset types including real estate, private company ownership interest, personal property and investments. 
  Assets Under Management (AUM)       The total market value of assets under the investment advisory and/or discretion of   GWIM   which generate asset management fees based on a percentage of the assets  market values. AUM reflects assets that are generally managed for institutional, high net worth and retail clients, and are distributed through various investment products including mutual funds, other commingled vehicles and separate accounts. AUM is classified in two categories, Liquidity AUM and Long-term AUM. Liquidity AUM are assets under advisory and discretion of   GWIM   in which the investment strategy seeks current income, while maintaining liquidity and capital preservation. The duration of these strategies is primarily less than one year. Long-term AUM are assets under advisory and/or discretion of   GWIM   in which the duration of investment strategy is longer than one year. 
  Carrying Value (with respect to loans)       The amount at which a loan is recorded on the balance sheet. For loans recorded at amortized cost, carrying value is the unpaid principal balance net of unamortized deferred loan origination fees and costs, and unamortized purchase premium or discount. For loans that are or have been on nonaccrual status, the carrying value is also reduced by any net charge-offs that have been recorded and the amount of interest payments applied as a reduction of principal under the cost recovery method. For PCI loans, the carrying value equals fair value upon acquisition adjusted for subsequent cash collections and yield accreted to date. For credit card loans, the carrying value also includes interest that has been billed to the customer. For loans classified as held-for-sale, carrying value is the lower of carrying value as described in the sentences above, or fair value. For loans for which we have elected the fair value option, the carrying value is fair value. 
  Client Brokerage Assets       Include client assets which are held in brokerage accounts. This includes non-discretionary brokerage and fee-based assets which generate brokerage income and asset management fee revenue. 
  Committed Credit Exposure       Includes any funded portion of a facility plus the unfunded portion of a facility on which the lender is legally bound to advance funds during a specified period under prescribed conditions. 
  Credit Derivatives     Contractual agreements that provide protection against a credit event on one or more referenced  

obligations. The nature of a credit event is established by the protection purchaser and the protection seller at the inception of the transaction, and such events generally include bankruptcy or insolvency of the referenced credit entity, failure to meet payment obligations when due, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. The purchaser of the credit derivative pays a periodic fee in return for a payment by the protection seller upon the occurrence, if any, of such a credit event. A credit default swap is a type of a credit derivative. 
  Credit Valuation Adjustment (CVA)     A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the counterparty credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments.  
  Debit Valuation Adjustment (DVA)       A portfolio adjustment required to properly reflect the Corporation s own credit risk exposure as part of the fair value of derivative instruments and/or structured liabilities. 
  Funding Valuation Adjustment (FVA)       A portfolio adjustment required to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives.  
  Interest Rate Lock Commitment (IRLC)       Commitment with a loan applicant in which the loan terms, including interest rate and price, are guaranteed for a designated period of time subject to credit approval. 
  Letter of Credit       A document issued on behalf of a customer to a third party promising to pay the third party upon presentation of specified documents. A letter of credit effectively substitutes the issuer s credit for that of the customer.  
  Loan-to-value (LTV)       A commonly used credit quality metric that is reported in terms of ending and average LTV. Ending LTV is calculated as the outstanding carrying value of the loan at the end of the period divided by the estimated value of the property securing the loan. An additional metric related to LTV is   combined loan-to-value (CLTV)   which is similar to the LTV metric, yet combines the outstanding balance on the residential mortgage loan and the outstanding carrying value on the home equity loan or available line of credit, both of which are secured by the same property, divided by the estimated value of the property. A LTV of 100 percent reflects a loan that is currently secured by a property valued at an amount exactly equal to the carrying value or available line of the loan. Estimated property values are generally determined through the use of automated valuation models (AVMs) or the CoreLogic Case-Shiller Index. An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to large volumes of market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the MSA in which the property being valued is located. CoreLogic Case-Shiller is a widely used index based on data from repeat sales of single family homes. CoreLogic Case-Shiller indexed-based values are reported on a three-month or one-quarter lag. 
  Margin Receivable         An extension of credit secured by eligible securities in certain brokerage accounts. 

Market-related Adjustments     Include adjustments to premium amortization or discount accretion on debt securities when a decrease in long-term rates shortens (or an increase extends) the estimated lives of mortgage-related debt securities. Also included in market-related adjustments is hedge ineffectiveness that impacts net interest income. 
  Matched Book     Repurchase and resale agreements and securities borrowed and loaned transactions entered into to accommodate customers and earn interest rate spreads. 
  Mortgage Servicing Right (MSR)     The right to service a mortgage loan when the underlying loan is sold or securitized. Servicing includes collections for principal, interest and escrow payments from borrowers and accounting for and remitting principal and interest payments to investors. 
  Net Interest Yield       Net interest income divided by average total interest-earning assets. 
  Nonperforming Loans and Leases       Include loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties (TDRs). Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. Consumer credit card loans, business card loans, consumer loans secured by personal property (except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR), and consumer loans secured by real estate that are insured by the FHA or through long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC (fully-insured loan portfolio) are not placed on nonaccrual status and are, therefore, not reported as nonperforming loans and leases. 
  Prompt Corrective Action (PCA)       A framework established by the U.S. banking regulators requiring banks to maintain certain levels of regulatory capital ratios, comprised of five categories of capitalization:  well capitalized,   adequately capitalized,   undercapitalized,   significantly undercapitalized,  and  critically undercapitalized.  Insured depository institutions that fail to meet these capital levels are subject to increasingly strict limits on their activities, including their ability to make capital distributions, pay management compensation, grow assets and take other actions.  
  Purchased Credit-impaired (PCI) Loan       A loan purchased as an individual loan, in a portfolio of loans or in a business combination  

with evidence of deterioration in credit quality since origination for which it is probable, upon acquisition, that the investor will be unable to collect all contractually required payments. These loans are recorded at fair value upon acquisition. 
  Subprime Loans       Although a standard industry definition for subprime loans (including subprime mortgage loans) does not exist, the Corporation defines subprime loans as specific product offerings for higher risk borrowers, including individuals with one or a combination of high credit risk factors, such as low FICO scores, high debt to income ratios and inferior payment history. 
  Troubled Debt Restructurings (TDRs)       Loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Certain consumer loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance, loans discharged in bankruptcy or other actions intended to maximize collection. Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge from bankruptcy. TDRs are generally reported as nonperforming loans and leases while on nonaccrual status. Nonperforming TDRs may be returned to accrual status when, among other criteria, payment in full of all amounts due under the restructured terms is expected and the borrower has demonstrated a sustained period of repayment performance, generally six months. TDRs that are on accrual status are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the restructuring occurred or the year in which they are returned to accrual status. In addition, if accruing TDRs bear less than a market rate of interest at the time of modification, they are reported as performing TDRs throughout their remaining lives unless and until they cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, at which time they would be placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs. 
  Value-at-Risk (VaR)       VaR is a model that simulates the value of a portfolio under a range of hypothetical scenarios in order to generate a distribution of potential gains and losses. VaR represents the loss the portfolio is expected to experience with a given confidence level based on historical data. A VaR model is an effective tool in estimating ranges of potential gains and losses on our trading portfolios.  

Acronyms 
                   ABS 
    Asset-backed securities 
      AFS 
    Available-for-sale 
      ALM 
    Asset and liability management 
      ARM 
    Adjustable-rate mortgage 
      AUM 
    Assets under management 
      BHC 
    Bank holding company 
      CCAR 
    Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review 
      CDO 
    Collateralized debt obligation 
      CGA 
    Corporate General Auditor 
      CLO 
    Collateralized loan obligation 
      CRA 
    Community Reinvestment Act 
      CVA 
    Credit valuation adjustment 
      DVA 
    Debit valuation adjustment 
      EAD 
    Exposure at default 
      ERC 
    Enterprise Risk Committee 
      FDIC 
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation 
      FHA 
    Federal Housing Administration 
      FHFA 
    Federal Housing Finance Agency 
      FHLB 
    Federal Home Loan Bank 
      FHLMC 
    Freddie Mac 
      FICC 
    Fixed-income, currencies and commodities 
      FICO 
    Fair Isaac Corporation (credit score) 
      FLUs 
    Front line units 
      FNMA 
    Fannie Mae 
      FTE 
    Fully taxable-equivalent 
      FVA 
    Funding valuation adjustment 
      GAAP 
    Accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America 
      GM CA 
    Global Marketing and Corporate Affairs 
      GNMA 
    Government National Mortgage Association 
      GSE 
    Government-sponsored enterprise 
      HELOC 
    Home equity lines of credit 

HFI 
    Held-for-investment 
      HQLA 
    High Quality Liquid Assets 
      HUD 
    U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development 
      IRM 
    Independent risk management 
      LCR 
    Liquidity Coverage Ratio 
      LGD 
    Loss-given default 
      LHFS 
    Loans held-for-sale 
      LIBOR 
    London InterBank Offered Rate 
      LTV 
    Loan-to-value 
      MD A 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
      MI 
    Mortgage insurance 
      MRC 
    Management Risk Committee  
      MSA 
    Metropolitan statistical area 
      MSR 
    Mortgage servicing right 
      NSFR 
    Net Stable Funding Ratio 
      OCC 
    Office of the Comptroller of the Currency 
      OCI 
    Other comprehensive income 
      OTC 
    Over-the-counter 
      OTTI 
    Other-than-temporary impairment 
      PCA 
    Prompt Corrective Action 
      PCI 
    Purchased credit-impaired 
      PPI 
    Payment protection insurance 
      RCSAs 
    Risk and Control Self Assessments 
      RMBS 
    Residential mortgage-backed securities 
      SBLCs 
    Standby letters of credit 
      SEC 
    Securities and Exchange Commission 
      SLR 
    Supplementary leverage ratio 
      TDR 
    Troubled debt restructurings 
      TLAC 
    Total Loss-Absorbing Capacity 
      VIE 
    Variable interest entity 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
  See   Market Risk Management   on page   92   in the MD A and the sections referenced therein for Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. 
                 Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
    The management of Bank of America Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. 
  The Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. The Corporation s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Corporation; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the Corporation are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Corporation; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Corporation s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Management assessed the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015    

based on the framework set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  . Based on that assessment, management concluded that, as of   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is effective. 
  The Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015   has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their accompanying report which expresses an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  . 

Brian T. Moynihan 
  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 

Paul M. Donofrio 
  Chief Financial Officer 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Bank of America Corporation: 
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in shareholders  equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   December 31, 2015   in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Corporation s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing  

and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

Charlotte, North Carolina 
  February 24, 2016 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries   

  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
      NOTE 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles 
  Bank of America Corporation (together with its consolidated subsidiaries, the Corporation), a bank holding company (BHC) and a financial holding company, provides a diverse range of financial services and products throughout the U.S. and in certain international markets. The term  the Corporation  as used herein may refer to Bank of America Corporation individually, Bank of America Corporation and its subsidiaries, or certain of Bank of America Corporation s subsidiaries or affiliates. 
  Principles of Consolidation and Basis of Presentation 
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of the Corporation and its majority-owned subsidiaries, and those variable interest entities (VIEs) where the Corporation is the primary beneficiary. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Results of operations of acquired companies are included from the dates of acquisition and for VIEs, from the dates that the Corporation became the primary beneficiary. Assets held in an agency or fiduciary capacity are not included in the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Corporation accounts for investments in companies for which it owns a voting interest and for which it has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financing decisions using the equity method of accounting. These investments are included in other assets. Equity method investments are subject to impairment testing and the Corporation s proportionate share of income or loss is included in equity investment income. 
  The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and disclosures. Realized results could differ from those estimates and assumptions. 
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. The new guidance makes targeted changes to existing GAAP including, among other provisions, requiring certain equity investments to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value reported in earnings and requiring changes in instrument-specific credit risk (i.e., debit valuation adjustments (DVA)) for financial liabilities recorded at fair value under the fair value option to be reported in other comprehensive income (OCI). The accounting for DVA related to other financial liabilities, for example, derivatives, does not change. The new guidance is effective on January 1, 2018, with early adoption permitted for the provisions related to DVA.  
  The Corporation early adopted, retrospective to January 1, 2015, the provisions of this new accounting guidance related to DVA on financial liabilities accounted for under the fair value option. The impact of the adoption was to reclassify, as of January 1, 2015, unrealized DVA losses of   $1.2 billion   after tax (  $2.0 billion   pretax) from January 1, 2015 retained earnings to accumulated OCI. Further, pretax unrealized DVA gains of   $301 million  ,   $301 million   and   $420 million   were reclassified from other income to accumulated OCI for the three months ended September 30, 2015,  

June 30, 2015 and March 31, 2015, respectively. This had the effect of reducing net income as previously reported for the aforementioned quarters by   $187 million  ,   $186 million   and   $260 million  , or approximately   $0.02   per share in each quarter. This change is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Income and the   Global Markets   segment results. Financial statements for 2014 and 2013 were not subject to restatement under the provisions of this new accounting guidance. For additional information, see   Note 14   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)   and   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . The Corporation does not expect the provisions of this new accounting guidance other than those related to DVA, as described above, to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  In February 2015, the FASB issued new accounting guidance that amends the criteria for determining whether limited partnerships and similar entities are VIEs, clarifies when a general partner or asset manager should consolidate an entity and eliminates the indefinite deferral of certain aspects of VIE accounting guidance for investments in certain investment funds. Money market funds registered under Rule 2a-7 of the Investment Company Act and similar funds are exempt from consolidation under the new guidance. The new accounting guidance is effective on January 1, 2016. The Corporation does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued new accounting guidance to clarify the principles for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers. The new accounting guidance, which does not apply to financial instruments, is effective on January 1, 2018. The Corporation does not expect the new guidance to have a material impact on its consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  In December 2012, the FASB issued a proposed standard on accounting for credit losses. It would replace multiple existing impairment models, including an  incurred loss  model for loans, with an  expected loss  model. The FASB has indicated a tentative effective date of January 1, 2019, and final guidance is expected to be issued in the second quarter of 2016. The final standard may materially reduce retained earnings in the period of adoption. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, cash items in the process of collection, cash segregated under federal and other brokerage regulations, and amounts due from correspondent banks, the Federal Reserve Bank and certain non-U.S. central banks. 
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows 
  In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year ended December 31, 2014 as included herein, the Corporation made certain corrections related to non-cash activity which are not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole, do not impact the Consolidated Statement of Income or Consolidated Balance Sheet, and have no impact on the Corporation s cash and cash equivalents balance. Certain non-cash transactions involving the sale of loans and receipt of debt securities as proceeds were incorrectly classified between  

operating activities and investing activities. The corrections resulted in a   $3.4 billion   increase in net cash provided by operating activities, offset by a   $3.4 billion   increase in net cash used in investing activities when compared to the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014. 
  The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows included in the previously-filed Form 10-Qs for the quarterly periods ended March 31, 2015 and June 30, 2015 also incorrectly reported this type of non-cash activity by   $4.8 billion   and   $9.3 billion  , where an increase in net cash provided by operating activities was offset by an increase in net cash used in investing activities. The incorrectly reported amounts in these 2015 quarterly periods also were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements taken as a whole, did not impact the Consolidated Statements of Income or Consolidated Balance Sheets and had no impact on cash and cash equivalents for those periods.  
  For information on certain non-cash transactions, which are not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, see   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases   and   Note 6   Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities  .  
  Securities Financing Agreements 
  The Corporation enters into securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase (securities financing agreements) to accommodate customers (also referred to as  matched-book transactions ), obtain securities to cover short positions, and to finance inventory positions. Securities financing agreements are treated as collateralized financing transactions except in instances where the transaction is required to be accounted for as individual sale and purchase transactions. Generally, these agreements are recorded at the amounts at which the securities were acquired or sold plus accrued interest, except for certain securities financing agreements that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option. Changes in the fair value of securities financing agreements that are accounted for under the fair value option are recorded in trading account profits in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  The Corporation s policy is to obtain possession of collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount loaned under resale agreements. To ensure that the market value of the underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is generally valued daily and the Corporation may require counterparties to deposit additional collateral or may return collateral pledged when appropriate. Securities financing agreements give rise to negligible credit risk as a result of these collateral provisions and, accordingly, no allowance for loan losses is considered necessary. 
  In transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged or sold as collateral, it recognizes an asset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, representing the securities received, and a liability, representing the obligation to return those securities. 

Collateral 
  The Corporation accepts securities as collateral that it is permitted by contract or custom to sell or repledge. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the fair value of this collateral was   $458.9 billion   and   $508.7 billion  , of which   $383.5 billion   and   $419.3 billion   was sold or repledged. The primary source of this collateral is securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell.  
  The Corporation also pledges company-owned securities and loans as collateral in transactions that include repurchase agreements, securities loaned, public and trust deposits, U.S. Treasury tax and loan notes, and short-term borrowings. This collateral, which in some cases can be sold or repledged by the counterparties to the transactions, is parenthetically disclosed on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  In certain cases, the Corporation has transferred assets to consolidated VIEs where those restricted assets serve as collateral for the interests issued by the VIEs. These assets are included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in Assets of Consolidated VIEs. 
  In addition, the Corporation obtains collateral in connection with its derivative contracts. Required collateral levels vary depending on the credit risk rating and the type of counterparty. Generally, the Corporation accepts collateral in the form of cash, U.S. Treasury securities and other marketable securities. Based on provisions contained in master netting agreements, the Corporation nets cash collateral received against derivative assets. The Corporation also pledges collateral on its own derivative positions which can be applied against derivative liabilities. 
  Trading Instruments 
  Financial instruments utilized in trading activities are carried at fair value. Fair value is generally based on quoted market prices or quoted market prices for similar assets and liabilities. If these market prices are not available, fair values are estimated based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques where the determination of fair value may require significant management judgment or estimation. Realized gains and losses are recorded on a trade-date basis. Realized and unrealized gains and losses are recognized in trading account profits. 
  Derivatives and Hedging Activities 
  Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading or to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk management activities include derivatives that are both designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships and derivatives used to hedge market risks in relationships that are not designated in qualifying accounting hedge relationships (referred to as other risk management activities). Derivatives utilized by the Corporation include swaps, financial futures and forward settlement contracts, and option contracts. 

All derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value, taking into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements that allow the Corporation to settle positive and negative positions and offset cash collateral held with the same counterparty on a net basis. For exchange-traded contracts, fair value is based on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets or is derived from observable market- based pricing parameters, similar to those applied to over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. For non-exchange traded contracts, fair value is based on dealer quotes, pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques for which the determination of fair value may require significant management judgment or estimation. 
  Valuations of derivative assets and liabilities reflect the value of the instrument including counterparty credit risk. These values also take into account the Corporation s own credit standing. 
  Trading Derivatives and Other Risk Management Activities 
  Derivatives held for trading purposes are included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet with changes in fair value included in trading account profits. 
  Derivatives used for other risk management activities are included in derivative assets or derivative liabilities. Derivatives used in other risk management activities have not been designated in a qualifying accounting hedge relationship because they did not qualify or the risk that is being mitigated pertains to an item that is reported at fair value through earnings so that the effect of measuring the derivative instrument and the asset or liability to which the risk exposure pertains will offset in the Consolidated Statement of Income to the extent effective. The changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate certain risks associated with mortgage servicing rights (MSRs), interest rate lock commitments (IRLCs) and first mortgage loans held-for-sale (LHFS) that are originated by the Corporation are recorded in mortgage banking income. Changes in the fair value of derivatives that serve to mitigate interest rate risk and foreign currency risk are included in other income (loss). Credit derivatives are also used by the Corporation to mitigate the risk associated with various credit exposures. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are included in other income (loss). 
  Derivatives Used For Hedge Accounting Purposes (Accounting Hedges) 
  For accounting hedges, the Corporation formally documents at inception all relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as the risk management objectives and strategies for undertaking various accounting hedges. Additionally, the Corporation primarily uses regression analysis at the inception of a hedge and for each reporting period thereafter to assess whether the derivative used in an accounting hedge transaction is expected to be and has been highly effective in offsetting changes in the fair value or cash flows of a hedged item or forecasted transaction. The Corporation discontinues hedge accounting when it is determined that a derivative is not expected to be or has ceased to be highly effective as a hedge, and then reflects changes in fair value of the derivative in earnings after termination of the hedge relationship. 

The Corporation uses its accounting hedges as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or hedges of net investments in foreign operations. The Corporation manages interest rate and foreign currency exchange rate sensitivity predominantly through the use of derivatives.  
  Fair value hedges are used to protect against changes in the fair value of the Corporation s assets and liabilities that are attributable to interest rate or foreign exchange volatility. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are recorded in earnings, together and in the same income statement line item with changes in the fair value of the related hedged item. If a derivative instrument in a fair value hedge is terminated or the hedge designation removed, the previous adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged asset or liability are subsequently accounted for in the same manner as other components of the carrying value of that asset or liability. For interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, such adjustments are amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the respective asset or liability. 
  Cash flow hedges are used primarily to minimize the variability in cash flows of assets or liabilities, or forecasted transactions caused by interest rate or foreign exchange fluctuations. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in accumulated OCI and are reclassified into the line item in the income statement in which the hedged item is recorded in the same period the hedged item affects earnings. Hedge ineffectiveness and gains and losses on the component of a derivative excluded in assessing hedge effectiveness are recorded in the same income statement line item. The Corporation records changes in the fair value of derivatives used as hedges of the net investment in foreign operations, to the extent effective, as a component of accumulated OCI. If a derivative instrument in a cash flow hedge is terminated or the hedge designation is removed, related amounts in accumulated OCI are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged forecasted transaction affects earnings. If it becomes probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur, any related amounts in accumulated OCI are reclassified into earnings in that period. 
  Interest Rate Lock Commitments 
  The Corporation enters into IRLCs in connection with its mortgage banking activities to fund residential mortgage loans at specified times in the future. IRLCs that relate to the origination of mortgage loans that will be classified as held-for-sale are considered derivative instruments under applicable accounting guidance. As such, these IRLCs are recorded at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income, typically resulting in recognition of a gain when the Corporation enters into IRLCs. 
  In estimating the fair value of an IRLC, the Corporation assigns a probability that the loan commitment will be exercised and the loan will be funded. The fair value of the commitments is derived from the fair value of related mortgage loans which is based on observable market data and includes the expected net future cash flows related to servicing of the loans. Changes in the fair value of IRLCs are recognized based on interest rate changes, changes in the probability that the commitment will be exercised and the passage of time. Changes from the expected future cash flows related to the customer relationship are excluded from the valuation of IRLCs. 

Outstanding IRLCs expose the Corporation to the risk that the price of the loans underlying the commitments might decline from inception of the rate lock to funding of the loan. To manage this risk, the Corporation utilizes forward loan sales commitments and other derivative instruments, including interest rate swaps and options, to economically hedge the risk of potential changes in the value of the loans that would result from the commitments. The changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recorded in mortgage banking income. 
  Securities 
  Debt securities are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of their trade date. Debt securities bought principally with the intent to buy and sell in the short term as part of the Corporation s trading activities are reported at fair value in trading account assets with unrealized gains and losses included in trading account profits. Debt securities purchased for longer term investment purposes, as part of asset and liability management (ALM) and other strategic activities are generally reported at fair value as available-for-sale (AFS) securities with net unrealized gains and losses net-of-tax included in accumulated OCI. Certain other debt securities purchased for ALM and other strategic purposes are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other income (loss). These are referred to as other debt securities carried at fair value. AFS securities and other debt securities carried at fair value are reported in debt securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Corporation may hedge these other debt securities with risk management derivatives with the unrealized gains and losses also reported in other income (loss). The debt securities are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in other income (loss) to mitigate accounting asymmetry with the risk management derivatives and to achieve operational simplifications. Debt securities which management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are reported at amortized cost. Certain debt securities purchased for use in other risk management activities, such as hedging certain market risks related to MSRs, are reported in other assets at fair value with unrealized gains and losses reported in the same line item as the item being hedged. 
  The Corporation regularly evaluates each AFS and held-to-maturity (HTM) debt security where the value has declined below amortized cost to assess whether the decline in fair value is other than temporary. In determining whether an impairment is other than temporary, the Corporation considers the severity and duration of the decline in fair value, the length of time expected for recovery, the financial condition of the issuer, and other qualitative factors, as well as whether the Corporation either plans to sell the security or it is more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost. If the impairment of the AFS or HTM debt security is credit-related, an other-than-temporary impairment (OTTI) loss is recorded in earnings. For AFS debt securities, the non-credit related impairment loss is recognized in accumulated OCI. If the Corporation intends to sell an AFS debt security or believes it will more-likely-than-not be required to sell a security, the Corporation records the full amount of the impairment loss as an OTTI loss. 
  Interest on debt securities, including amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, is included in interest income. Premiums and discounts are amortized to interest income over the estimated lives of the securities. Prepayment experience, which is primarily driven by interest rates, is continually evaluated  

to determine the estimated lives of the securities. When a change is made to the estimated lives of the securities, the related premium or discount is adjusted, with a corresponding charge or credit to interest income, to the appropriate amount had the current estimated lives been applied since the acquisition of the securities. Realized gains and losses from the sales of debt securities are determined using the specific identification method. 
  Marketable equity securities are classified based on management s intention on the date of purchase and recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the trade date. Marketable equity securities that are bought and held principally for the purpose of resale in the near term are classified as trading and are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and losses included in trading account profits. Other marketable equity securities are accounted for as AFS and classified in other assets. All AFS marketable equity securities are carried at fair value with net unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. If there is an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value of any individual AFS marketable equity security, the cost basis is reduced and the Corporation reclassifies the associated net unrealized loss out of accumulated OCI with a corresponding charge to equity investment income. Dividend income on AFS marketable equity securities is included in equity investment income. Realized gains and losses on the sale of all AFS marketable equity securities, which are recorded in equity investment income, are determined using the specific identification method. 
  Certain equity investments held by Global Principal Investments, the Corporation s diversified equity investor in private equity, real estate and other alternative investments, are subject to investment company accounting under applicable accounting guidance and, accordingly, are carried at fair value with changes in fair value reported in equity investment income. These investments are included in other assets. Initially, the transaction price of the investment is generally considered to be the best indicator of fair value. Thereafter, valuation of direct investments is based on an assessment of each individual investment using methodologies that include publicly-traded comparables derived by multiplying a key performance metric of the portfolio company by the relevant valuation multiple observed for comparable companies, acquisition comparables, entry level multiples and discounted cash flow analyses, and are subject to appropriate discounts for lack of liquidity or marketability. For fund investments, the Corporation generally records the fair value of its proportionate interest in the fund s capital as reported by the respective fund managers. 
  Loans and Leases 
  Loans, with the exception of loans accounted for under the fair value option, are measured at historical cost and reported at their outstanding principal balances net of any unearned income, charge-offs, unamortized deferred fees and costs on originated loans, and for purchased loans, net of any unamortized premiums or discounts. Loan origination fees and certain direct origination costs are deferred and recognized as adjustments to interest income over the lives of the related loans. Unearned income, discounts and premiums are amortized to interest income using a level yield methodology. The Corporation elects to account for certain consumer and commercial loans under the fair value option with changes in fair value reported in other income (loss). 

Under applicable accounting guidance, for reporting purposes, the loan and lease portfolio is categorized by portfolio segment and, within each portfolio segment, by class of financing receivables. A portfolio segment is defined as the level at which an entity develops and documents a systematic methodology to determine the allowance for credit losses, and a class of financing receivables is defined as the level of disaggregation of portfolio segments based on the initial measurement attribute, risk characteristics and methods for assessing risk. The Corporation s   three   portfolio segments are Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial. The classes within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment are core portfolio residential mortgage, Legacy Assets   Servicing residential mortgage, core portfolio home equity and Legacy Assets   Servicing home equity  .   The classes within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment are U.S. credit card, non-U.S. credit card, direct/indirect consumer and other consumer. The classes within the Commercial portfolio segment are U.S. commercial, commercial real estate, commercial lease financing, non-U.S. commercial and U.S. small business commercial. 
  Purchased Credit-impaired Loans 
  Purchased loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration as of the purchase date for which it is probable that the Corporation will not receive all contractually required payments receivable are accounted for as purchased credit-impaired (PCI) loans. Evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination may include past due status, refreshed credit scores and refreshed loan-to-value (LTV) ratios. At acquisition, PCI loans are recorded at fair value with no allowance for credit losses, and accounted for individually or aggregated in pools based on similar risk characteristics such as credit risk, collateral type and interest rate risk. The Corporation estimates the amount and timing of expected cash flows for each loan or pool of loans. The expected cash flows in excess of the amount paid for the loans is referred to as the accretable yield and is recorded as interest income over the remaining estimated life of the loan or pool of loans. The excess of the PCI loans  contractual principal and interest over the expected cash flows is referred to as the nonaccretable difference. Over the life of the PCI loans, the expected cash flows continue to be estimated using models that incorporate management s estimate of current assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds. If, upon subsequent valuation, the Corporation determines it is probable that the present value of the expected cash flows has decreased, a charge to the provision for credit losses is recorded with a corresponding increase in the allowance for credit losses. If it is probable that there is a significant increase in the present value of expected cash flows, the allowance for credit losses is reduced or, if there is no remaining allowance for credit losses related to these PCI loans, the accretable yield is increased through a reclassification from nonaccretable difference, resulting in a prospective increase in interest income. Reclassifications to or from nonaccretable difference can also occur for changes in the PCI loans  estimated lives. If a loan within a PCI pool is sold, foreclosed, forgiven or the expectation of any future proceeds is remote, the loan is removed from the pool at its proportional carrying value. If the loan s recovery value is less than the loan s carrying value, the difference is first applied against  

the PCI pool s nonaccretable difference and then against the allowance for credit losses. 
  Leases 
  The Corporation provides equipment financing to its customers through a variety of lease arrangements. Direct financing leases are carried at the aggregate of lease payments receivable plus estimated residual value of the leased property less unearned income. Leveraged leases, which are a form of financing leases, are reported net of non-recourse debt. Unearned income on leveraged and direct financing leases is accreted to interest income over the lease terms using methods that approximate the interest method. 
  Allowance for Credit Losses 
  The allowance for credit losses, which includes the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, represents management s estimate of probable losses inherent in the Corporation s lending activities. The allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments exclude amounts for loans and unfunded lending commitments accounted for under the fair value option as the fair values of these instruments reflect a credit component. The allowance for loan and lease losses does not include amounts related to accrued interest receivable, other than billed interest and fees on credit card receivables, as accrued interest receivable is reversed when a loan is placed on nonaccrual status. The allowance for loan and lease losses represents the estimated probable credit losses on funded consumer and commercial loans and leases while the reserve for unfunded lending commitments, including standby letters of credit (SBLCs) and binding unfunded loan commitments, represents estimated probable credit losses on these unfunded credit instruments based on utilization assumptions. Lending-related credit exposures deemed to be uncollectible, excluding loans carried at fair value, are charged off against these accounts. Write-offs on PCI loans on which there is a valuation allowance are recorded against the valuation allowance. For additional information, see Purchased Credit-impaired Loans in this Note. Cash recovered on previously charged-off amounts is recorded as a recovery to these accounts. Management evaluates the adequacy of the allowance for credit losses based on the combined total of the allowance for loan and lease losses and the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
  The Corporation performs periodic and systematic detailed reviews of its lending portfolios to identify credit risks and to assess the overall collectability of those portfolios. The allowance on certain homogeneous consumer loan portfolios, which generally consist of consumer real estate within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment and credit card loans within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment, is based on aggregated portfolio segment evaluations generally by product type. Loss forecast models are utilized for these portfolios which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, bankruptcies, economic conditions and credit scores. 

The Corporation s Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment is comprised primarily of large groups of homogeneous consumer loans secured by residential real estate. The amount of losses incurred in the homogeneous loan pools is estimated based on the number of loans that will default and the loss in the event of default. Using modeling methodologies, the Corporation estimates the number of homogeneous loans that will default based on the individual loan attributes aggregated into pools of homogeneous loans with similar attributes. The attributes that are most significant to the probability of default and are used to estimate defaults include refreshed LTV or, in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed combined LTV, borrower credit score, months since origination (referred to as vintage) and geography, all of which are further broken down by present collection status (whether the loan is current, delinquent, in default or in bankruptcy). This estimate is based on the Corporation s historical experience with the loan portfolio. The estimate is adjusted to reflect an assessment of environmental factors not yet reflected in the historical data underlying the loss estimates, such as changes in real estate values, local and national economies, underwriting standards and the regulatory environment. The probability of default on a loan is based on an analysis of the movement of loans with the measured attributes from either current or any of the delinquency categories to default over a   12  -month period. On home equity loans where the Corporation holds only a second-lien position and foreclosure is not the best alternative, the loss severity is estimated at   100 percent  . 
  The allowance on certain commercial loans (except business card and certain small business loans) is calculated using loss rates delineated by risk rating and product type. Factors considered when assessing loss rates include the value of the underlying collateral, if applicable, the industry of the obligor, and the obligor s liquidity and other financial indicators along with certain qualitative factors. These statistical models are updated regularly for changes in economic and business conditions. Included in the analysis of consumer and commercial loan portfolios are reserves which are maintained to cover uncertainties that affect the Corporation s estimate of probable losses including domestic and global economic uncertainty and large single-name defaults. 
  The remaining portfolios, including nonperforming commercial loans, as well as consumer and commercial loans modified in a troubled debt restructuring (TDR), are reviewed in accordance with applicable accounting guidance on impaired loans and TDRs. If necessary, a specific allowance is established for these loans if they are deemed to be impaired. A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due, including principal and/or interest, in accordance with the contractual terms of the agreement, or the loan has been modified in a TDR. Once a loan has been identified as impaired, management measures impairment pr  imarily b  ased on the present value of payments expected to be received, discounted at the loans  original effective contractual interest rates, or discounted at the portfolio average contractual annual percentage rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Impaired loans and TDRs may also be measured based on observable market prices, or for loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, the estimated fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. If the recorded investment in impaired loans exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is established as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses unless these are secured consumer loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment,  

in which case the amount that exceeds the fair value of the collateral is charged off. 
  Generally, when determining the fair value of the collateral securing consumer real estate-secured loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, prior to performing a detailed property valuation including a walk-through of a property, the Corporation initially estimates the fair value of the collateral securing these consumer loans using an automated valuation model (AVM). An AVM is a tool that estimates the value of a property by reference to market data including sales of comparable properties and price trends specific to the Metropolitan Statistical Area in which the property being valued is located. In the event that an AVM value is not available, the Corporation utilizes publicized indices or if these methods provide less reliable valuations, the Corporation uses appraisals or broker price opinions to estimate the fair value of the collateral. While there is inherent imprecision in these valuations, the Corporation believes that they are representative of the portfolio in the aggregate. 
  In addition to the allowance for loan and lease losses, the Corporation also estimates probable losses related to unfunded lending commitments, such as letters of credit and financial guarantees, and binding unfunded loan commitments. The reserve for unfunded lending commitments excludes commitments accounted for under the fair value option. Unfunded lending commitments are subject to individual reviews and are analyzed and segregated by risk according to the Corporation s internal risk rating scale. These risk classifications, in conjunction with an analysis of historical loss experience, utilization assumptions, current economic conditions, performance trends within the portfolio and any other pertinent information, result in the estimation of the reserve for unfunded lending commitments. 
  The allowance for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio is reported separately on the Consolidated Balance Sheet whereas the reserve for unfunded lending commitments is reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and other liabilities. The provision for credit losses related to the loan and lease portfolio and unfunded lending commitments is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  Nonperforming Loans and Leases, Charge-offs and Delinquencies 
  Nonperforming loans and leases generally include loans and leases that have been placed on nonaccrual status, including nonaccruing loans whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties. Loans accounted for under the fair value option, PCI loans and LHFS are not reported as nonperforming. 
  In accordance with the Corporation s policies, consumer real estate-secured loans, including residential mortgages and home equity loans, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming at   90   days past due unless repayment of the loan is insured by the Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or through individually insured long-term standby agreements with Fannie Mae (FNMA) or Freddie Mac (FHLMC) (the fully-insured portfolio). Residential mortgage loans in the fully-insured portfolio are not placed on nonaccrual status and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming. Junior-lien home equity loans are placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming when the underlying first-lien mortgage loan becomes   90   days past due even if the junior-lien loan is current. Accrued interest receivable  

is reversed when a consumer loan is placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections on nonaccruing consumer loans for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are generally applied as principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to interest income when received. These loans may be restored to accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. The outstanding balance of real estate-secured loans that is in excess of the estimated property value less costs to sell is charged off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes   180   days past due unless the loan is fully insured. The estimated property value less costs to sell is determined using the same process as described for impaired loans in Allowance for Credit Losses in this Note. 
  Consumer loans secured by personal property, credit card loans and other unsecured consumer loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans, except for certain secured consumer loans, including those that have been modified in a TDR. Personal property-secured loans are charged off to collateral value no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes   120   days past due or, for loans in bankruptcy,   60   days past due. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes   180   days past due or within   60   days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy. 
  Commercial loans and leases, excluding business card loans, that are past due   90   days or more as to principal or interest, or where reasonable doubt exists as to timely collection, including loans that are individually identified as being impaired, are generally placed on nonaccrual status and classified as nonperforming unless well-secured and in the process of collection. 
  Accrued interest receivable is reversed when commercial loans and leases are placed on nonaccrual status. Interest collections on nonaccruing commercial loans and leases for which the ultimate collectability of principal is uncertain are applied as principal reductions; otherwise, such collections are credited to income when received. Commercial loans and leases may be restored to accrual status when all principal and interest is current and full repayment of the remaining contractual principal and interest is expected, or when the loan otherwise becomes well-secured and is in the process of collection. Business card loans are charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes   180   days past due or   60   days after receipt of notification of death or bankruptcy. These loans are not placed on nonaccrual status prior to charge-off and, therefore, are not reported as nonperforming loans. Other commercial loans and leases are generally charged off when all or a portion of the principal amount is determined to be uncollectible. 
  The entire balance of a consumer loan or commercial loan or lease is contractually delinquent if the minimum payment is not received by the specified due date on the customer s billing statement. Interest and fees continue to accrue on past due loans and leases until the date the loan is placed on nonaccrual status, if applicable. 
  PCI loans are recorded at fair value at the acquisition date. Although the PCI loans may be contractually delinquent, the Corporation does not classify these loans as nonperforming as the loans were written down to fair value at the acquisition date and the accretable yield is recognized in interest income over the  

remaining life of the loan. In addition, reported net charge-offs exclude write-offs on PCI loans as the fair value already considers the estimated credit losses. 
  Troubled Debt Restructurings 
  Consumer and commercial loans and leases whose contractual terms have been restructured in a manner that grants a concession to a borrower experiencing financial difficulties are classified as TDRs. Concessions could include a reduction in the interest rate to a rate that is below market on the loan, payment extensions, forgiveness of principal, forbearance or other actions designed to maximize collections. Loans classified as TDRs are considered impaired loans. Loans that are carried at fair value, LHFS and PCI loans are not classified as TDRs. 
  Consumer and commercial loans and leases whose contractual terms have been modified in a TDR and are current at the time of restructuring may remain on accrual status if there is demonstrated performance prior to the restructuring and payment in full under the restructured terms is expected. Otherwise, the loans are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming, except for fully-insured consumer real estate loans, until there is sustained repayment performance for a reasonable period, generally   six   months. If accruing TDRs cease to perform in accordance with their modified contractual terms, they are placed on nonaccrual status and reported as nonperforming TDRs. Generally, TDRs are reported as performing or nonperforming TDRs, depending on nonaccrual status, throughout their remaining lives. Accruing TDRs that bear a market rate of interest are reported as performing TDRs through the end of the calendar year in which the loans are returned to accrual status. 
  Secured consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and have not been reaffirmed by the borrower are classified as TDRs at the time of discharge. Such loans are placed on nonaccrual status and written down to the estimated collateral value less costs to sell no later than at the time of discharge. If these loans are contractually current, interest collections are generally recorded in interest income on a cash basis. Consumer real estate-secured loans for which a binding offer to restructure has been extended are also classified as TDRs. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated in a TDR are not placed on nonaccrual status. Credit card and other unsecured consumer loans that have been renegotiated and placed on a fixed payment plan after July 1, 2012 are generally charged off no later than the end of the month in which the account becomes   120   days past due. 
  A loan that had previously been modified in a TDR and is subsequently refinanced under current underwriting standards at a market rate with no concessionary terms is accounted for as a new loan and is no longer reported as a TDR. 
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  Loans that are intended to be sold in the foreseeable future, including residential mortgages, loan syndications, and to a lesser degree, commercial real estate, consumer finance and other loans, are reported as LHFS and are carried at the lower of aggregate cost or fair value. The Corporation accounts for certain LHFS, including residential mortgage LHFS, under the fair value option. Loan origination costs related to LHFS that the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option are recognized in noninterest expense when incurred. Loan origination costs for LHFS carried at the lower of cost or fair value are capitalized as  

part of the carrying value of the loans and recognized as a reduction of noninterest income upon the sale of such loans. LHFS that are on nonaccrual status and are reported as nonperforming, as defined in the policy herein, are reported separately from nonperforming loans and leases. 
  Premises and Equipment 
  Premises and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Estimated lives range up to   40   years for buildings, up to   12   years for furniture and equipment, and the shorter of lease term or estimated useful life for leasehold improvements. 
  Internally-developed Software 
  The Corporation capitalizes the costs associated with certain internally-developed software, and amortizes the costs over the expected useful life. Direct project costs of internally-developed software are capitalized when it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used for its intended function. 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  The Corporation accounts for consumer MSRs, including residential mortgage and home equity MSRs, at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income. To reduce the volatility of earnings related to interest rate and market value fluctuations, U.S. Treasury securities, mortgage-backed securities and derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps may be used to hedge certain market risks of the MSRs. Such derivatives are not designated as qualifying accounting hedges. These instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in mortgage banking income. The Corporation estimates the fair value of consumer MSRs using a valuation model that calculates the present value of estimated future net servicing income and, when available, quoted prices from independent parties.  
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill is the purchase premium after adjusting for the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is reviewed for potential impairment on an annual basis, or when events or circumstances indicate a potential impairment, at the reporting unit level. A reporting unit, as defined under applicable accounting guidance, is a business segment or one level below a business segment. The goodwill impairment analysis is a two-step test. The first step of the goodwill impairment test involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit with its carrying value, including goodwill, as measured by allocated equity. In certain circumstances, the first step may be performed using a qualitative assessment. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying value, goodwill of the reporting unit is considered not impaired; however, if the carrying value of the reporting unit exceeds its fair value, the second step must be performed to measure potential impairment. 
  The second step involves calculating an implied fair value of goodwill for each reporting unit for which the first step indicated possible impairment. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill  

recognized in a business combination, which is the excess of the fair value of the reporting unit, as determined in the first step, over the aggregate fair values of the assets, liabilities and identifiable intangibles as if the reporting unit was being acquired in a business combination. Measurement of the fair values of the assets and liabilities of a reporting unit is consistent with the requirements of the fair value measurements accounting guidance, as described in Fair Value in this Note. The adjustments to measure the assets, liabilities and intangibles at fair value are for the purpose of measuring the implied fair value of goodwill and such adjustments are not reflected on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. If the implied fair value of goodwill exceeds the goodwill assigned to the reporting unit, there is no impairment. If the goodwill assigned to a reporting unit exceeds the implied fair value of goodwill, an impairment charge is recorded for the excess. An impairment loss recognized cannot exceed the amount of goodwill assigned to a reporting unit. An impairment loss establishes a new basis in the goodwill and subsequent reversals of goodwill impairment losses are not permitted under applicable accounting guidance. 
  For intangible assets subject to amortization, an impairment loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset is not recoverable and exceeds fair value. The carrying value of the intangible asset is considered not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset. Intangible assets deemed to have indefinite useful lives are not subject to amortization. An impairment loss is recognized if the carrying value of the intangible asset with an indefinite life exceeds its fair value. 
  Variable Interest Entities 
  A VIE is an entity that lacks equity investors or whose equity investors do not have a controlling financial interest in the entity through their equity investments. The entity that has a controlling financial interest in a VIE is referred to as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The Corporation is deemed to have a controlling financial interest and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE if it has both the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits that could potentially be significant to the VIE. On a quarterly basis, the Corporation reassesses whether it has a controlling financial interest in and is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The quarterly reassessment process considers whether the Corporation has acquired or divested the power to direct the activities of the VIE through changes in governing documents or other circumstances. The reassessment also considers whether the Corporation has acquired or disposed of a financial interest that could be significant to the VIE, or whether an interest in the VIE has become significant or is no longer significant. The consolidation status of the VIEs with which the Corporation is involved may change as a result of such reassessments. Changes in consolidation status are applied prospectively, with assets and liabilities of a newly consolidated VIE initially recorded at fair value. A gain or loss may be recognized upon deconsolidation of a VIE depending on the carrying values of deconsolidated assets and liabilities compared to the fair value of retained interests and ongoing contractual arrangements. 
  The Corporation primarily uses VIEs for its securitization activities, in which the Corporation transfers whole loans or debt securities into a trust or other vehicle such that the assets are legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation. Assets held in a trust can only be used to settle obligations of the trust. The  

creditors of these trusts typically have no recourse to the Corporation except in accordance with the Corporation s obligations under standard representations and warranties. 
  When the Corporation is the servicer of whole loans held in a securitization trust, including non-agency residential mortgages, home equity loans, credit cards, automobile loans and student loans, the Corporation has the power to direct the most significant activities of the trust. The Corporation generally does not have the power to direct the most significant activities of a residential mortgage agency trust except in certain circumstances in which the Corporation holds substantially all of the issued securities and has the unilateral right to liquidate the trust. The power to direct the most significant activities of a commercial mortgage securitization trust is typically held by the special servicer or by the party holding specific subordinate securities which embody certain controlling rights. The Corporation consolidates a whole-loan securitization trust if it has the power to direct the most significant activities and also holds securities issued by the trust or has other contractual arrangements, other than standard representations and warranties, that could potentially be significant to the trust. 
  The Corporation may also transfer trading account securities and AFS securities into municipal bond or resecuritization trusts. The Corporation consolidates a municipal bond or resecuritization trust if it has control over the ongoing activities of the trust such as the remarketing of the trust s liabilities or, if there are no ongoing activities, sole discretion over the design of the trust, including the identification of securities to be transferred in and the structure of securities to be issued, and also retains securities or has liquidity or other commitments that could potentially be significant to the trust. The Corporation does not consolidate a municipal bond or resecuritization trust if one or a limited number of third-party investors share responsibility for the design of the trust or have control over the significant activities of the trust through liquidation or other substantive rights. 
  Other VIEs used by the Corporation include collateralized debt obligations (CDOs), investment vehicles created on behalf of customers and other investment vehicles. The Corporation does not routinely serve as collateral manager for CDOs and, therefore, does not typically have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the economic performance of a CDO. However, following an event of default, if the Corporation is a majority holder of senior securities issued by a CDO and acquires the power to manage the assets of the CDO, the Corporation consolidates the CDO. 
  The Corporation consolidates a customer or other investment vehicle if it has control over the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the vehicle and also absorbs potentially significant gains or losses through an investment in the vehicle, derivative contracts or other arrangements. The Corporation does not consolidate an investment vehicle if a single investor controlled the initial design of the vehicle or manages the assets in the vehicles or if the Corporation does not have a variable interest that could potentially be significant to the vehicle. 
  Retained interests in securitized assets are initially recorded at fair value. In addition, the Corporation may invest in debt securities issued by unconsolidated VIEs. Fair values of these debt securities, which are classified as trading account assets, debt securities carried at fair value or held-to-maturity securities, are based primarily on quoted market prices in active or inactive markets. Generally, quoted market prices for retained residual interests are not available; therefore, the Corporation estimates  

fair values based on the present value of the associated expected future cash flows. This may require management to estimate credit losses, prepayment speeds, forward interest yield curves, discount rates and other factors that impact the value of retained interests. Retained residual interests in unconsolidated securitization trusts are classified in trading account assets or other assets with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. The Corporation may also enter into derivatives with unconsolidated VIEs, which are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. 
  Fair Value 
  The Corporation measures the fair values of its assets and liabilities, where applicable, in accordance with accounting guidance that requires an entity to base fair value on exit price. A three-level hierarchy, provided in the applicable accounting guidance, for inputs is utilized in measuring fair value which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that observable inputs be used to determine the exit price when available. Under applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation categorizes its financial instruments, based on the priority of inputs to the valuation technique, into this three-level hierarchy, as described below. Trading account assets and liabilities, derivative assets and liabilities, AFS debt and equity securities, other debt securities carried at fair value, consumer MSRs and certain other assets are carried at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting guidance. The Corporation has also elected to account for certain assets and liabilities under the fair value option, including certain commercial and consumer loans and loan commitments, LHFS, short-term borrowings, securities financing agreements, long-term deposits and long-term debt. The following describes the three-level hierarchy. 
           Level 1 
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 assets and liabilities include debt and equity securities and derivative contracts that are traded in an active exchange market, as well as certain U.S. Treasury securities that are highly liquid and are actively traded in OTC markets. 
              Level 2 
    Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Level 2 assets and liabilities include debt securities with quoted prices that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments and derivative contracts where fair value is determined using a pricing model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data. This category generally includes U.S. government and agency mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities (ABS), corporate debt securities, derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS. 
              Level 3 
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the overall fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and liabilities include financial instruments for which the determination of fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. The fair value for such assets and liabilities is generally determined using  

pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques that incorporate the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset or liability. This category generally includes retained residual interests in securitizations, consumer MSRs, certain ABS, highly structured, complex or long-dated derivative contracts, certain loans and LHFS, IRLCs and certain CDOs where independent pricing information cannot be obtained for a significant portion of the underlying assets. 
  Income Taxes 
  There are two components of income tax expense: current and deferred. Current income tax expense reflects taxes to be paid or refunded for the current period. Deferred income tax expense results from changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities between periods. These gross deferred tax assets and liabilities represent decreases or increases in taxes expected to be paid in the future because of future reversals of temporary differences in the bases of assets and liabilities as measured by tax laws and their bases as reported in the financial statements. Deferred tax assets are also recognized for tax attributes such as net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards. Valuation allowances are recorded to reduce deferred tax assets to the amounts management concludes are more-likely-than-not to be realized. 
  Income tax benefits are recognized and measured based upon a two-step model: first, a tax position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained based solely on its technical merits in order to be recognized, and second, the benefit is measured as the largest dollar amount of that position that is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon settlement. The difference between the benefit recognized and the tax benefit claimed on a tax return is referred to as an unrecognized tax benefit. The Corporation records income tax-related interest and penalties, if applicable, within income tax expense. 
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income 
  The Corporation records the following in accumulated OCI, net-of-tax: unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities, unrealized gains or losses on DVA on financial liabilities recorded at fair value under the fair value option, gains and losses on cash flow accounting hedges, certain employee benefit plan adjustments, and foreign currency translation adjustments and related hedges of net investments in foreign operations. Unrealized gains and losses on AFS debt and marketable equity securities are reclassified to earnings as the gains or losses are realized upon sale of the securities. Unrealized losses on AFS securities deemed to represent OTTI are reclassified to earnings at the time of the impairment charge. For AFS debt securities that the Corporation does not intend to sell or it is not more-likely-than-not that it will be required to sell, only the credit component of an unrealized loss is reclassified to earnings. Realized gains or losses on DVA are reclassified to earnings upon derecognition of the liability. Gains or losses on derivatives accounted for as cash flow hedges are reclassified to earnings when the hedged transaction affects earnings. Translation gains  

or losses on foreign currency translation adjustments are reclassified to earnings upon the substantial sale or liquidation of investments in foreign operations.  
  Revenue Recognition 
  The following summarizes the Corporation s revenue recognition policies as they relate to certain noninterest income line items in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  Card income includes fees such as interchange, cash advance, annual, late, over-limit and other miscellaneous fees, which are recorded as revenue when earned. Uncollected fees are included in the customer card receivables balances with an amount recorded in the allowance for loan and lease losses for estimated uncollectible card receivables. Uncollected fees are written off when a card receivable reaches   180   days past due. 
  Service charges include fees for insufficient funds, overdrafts and other banking services and are recorded as revenue when earned. Uncollected fees are included in outstanding loan balances with an amount recorded for estimated uncollectible service fees receivable. Uncollected fees are written off when a fee receivable reaches   60   days past due. 
  Investment and brokerage services revenue consists primarily of asset management fees and brokerage income that are recognized over the period the services are provided or when commissions are earned. Asset management fees consist primarily of fees for investment management and trust services and are generally based on the dollar amount of the assets being managed. Brokerage income generally includes commissions and fees earned on the sale of various financial products. 
  Investment banking income consists primarily of advisory and underwriting fees that are recognized in income as the services are provided and no contingencies exist. Revenues are generally recognized net of any direct expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses are recorded as noninterest expense. 
  Earnings Per Common Share 
  Earnings per common share (EPS) is computed by dividing net income (loss) allocated to common shareholders by the weighted-average common shares outstanding, except that it does not include unvested common shares subject to repurchase or cancellation. Net income (loss) allocated to common shareholders represents net income (loss) applicable to common shareholders which is net income (loss) adjusted for preferred stock dividends including dividends declared, accretion of discounts on preferred stock including accelerated accretion when preferred stock is repaid early, and cumulative dividends related to the current dividend period that have not been declared as of period end, less income allocated to participating securities (see below for more information). Diluted EPS is computed by dividing income (loss) allocated to common shareholders plus dividends on dilutive convertible preferred stock and preferred stock that can be tendered to exercise warrants, by the weighted-average common shares outstanding plus amounts representing the dilutive effect of stock options outstanding, restricted stock, restricted stock units, outstanding warrants and the dilution resulting from the conversion of convertible preferred stock, if applicable. 

Unvested share-based payment awards that contain nonforfeitable rights to dividends are participating securities that are included in computing EPS using the two-class method. The two-class method is an earnings allocation formula under which EPS is calculated for common stock and participating securities according to dividends declared and participating rights in undistributed earnings. Under this method, all earnings, distributed and undistributed, are allocated to participating securities and common shares based on their respective rights to receive dividends. 
  In an exchange of non-convertible preferred stock, income allocated to common shareholders is adjusted for the difference between the carrying value of the preferred stock and the fair value of the consideration exchanged. In an induced conversion of convertible preferred stock, income allocated to common shareholders is reduced by the excess of the fair value of the consideration exchanged over the fair value of the common stock that would have been issued under the original conversion terms. 
  Foreign Currency Translation 
  Assets, liabilities and operations of foreign branches and subsidiaries are recorded based on the functional currency of each entity. For certain of the foreign operations, the functional currency is the local currency, in which case the assets, liabilities and operations are translated, for consolidation purposes, from the local currency to the U.S. Dollar reporting currency at period-end rates for assets and liabilities and generally at average rates for results of operations. The resulting unrealized gains or losses, as well as gains and losses from certain hedges, are reported as a component of accumulated OCI, net-of-tax. When the foreign entity s functional currency is determined to be the U.S. Dollar, the  

resulting remeasurement gains or losses on foreign currency-denominated assets or liabilities are included in earnings. 
  Credit Card and Deposit Arrangements 
  Endorsing Organization Agreements 
  The Corporation contracts with other organizations to obtain their endorsement of the Corporation s loan and deposit products. This endorsement may provide to the Corporation exclusive rights to market to the organization s members or to customers on behalf of the Corporation. These organizations endorse the Corporation s loan and deposit products and provide the Corporation with their mailing lists and marketing activities. These agreements generally have terms that range five or more years. The Corporation typically pays royalties in exchange for the endorsement. Compensation costs related to the credit card agreements are recorded as contra-revenue in card income. 
  Cardholder Reward Agreements 
  The Corporation offers reward programs that allow its cardholders to earn points that can be redeemed for a broad range of rewards including cash, travel and gift cards. The Corporation establishes a rewards liability based upon the points earned that are expected to be redeemed and the average cost per point redeemed. The points to be redeemed are estimated based on past redemption behavior, card product type, account transaction activity and other historical card performance. The liability is reduced as the points are redeemed. The estimated cost of the rewards programs is recorded as contra-revenue in card income. 

NOTE 2   Derivatives 
  Derivative Balances 
  Derivatives are entered into on behalf of customers, for trading, or to support risk management activities. Derivatives used in risk management activities include derivatives that may or may not be designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships. Derivatives that are not designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships are referred to as other risk management derivatives. For more information on the Corporation s derivatives and hedging  

activities, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . The following tables present derivative instruments included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in derivative assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Balances are presented on a gross basis, prior to the application of counterparty and cash collateral netting. Total derivative assets and liabilities are adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements and have been reduced by the cash collateral received or paid. 

(1)   
    Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding. 

(1)   
    Represents the total contract/notional amount of derivative assets and liabilities outstanding. 
       Offsetting of Derivatives 
  The Corporation enters into International Swaps and Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA) master netting agreements or similar agreements with substantially all of the Corporation s derivative counterparties. Where legally enforceable, these master netting agreements give the Corporation, in the event of default by the counterparty, the right to liquidate securities held as collateral and to offset receivables and payables with the same counterparty. For purposes of the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Corporation offsets derivative assets and liabilities and cash collateral held with the same counterparty where it has such a legally enforceable master netting agreement. 
  The Offsetting of Derivatives table presents derivative instruments included in derivative assets and liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   by primary risk (e.g., interest rate risk) and the platform, where applicable, on which these derivatives are transacted. Exchange-traded derivatives include listed options transacted on an exchange. OTC derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a particular counterparty. OTC-cleared derivatives include bilateral transactions between the Corporation and a counterparty where the transaction is cleared through a clearinghouse. Balances are presented on a gross basis, prior to  

the application of counterparty and cash collateral netting. Total gross derivative assets and liabilities are adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements which includes reducing the balance for counterparty netting and cash collateral received or paid. 
  Other gross derivative assets and liabilities in the table represent derivatives entered into under master netting agreements where uncertainty exists as to the enforceability of these agreements under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries and, accordingly, receivables and payables with counterparties in these countries or industries are reported on a gross basis. 
  Also included in the table is financial instruments collateral related to legally enforceable master netting agreements that represents securities collateral received or pledged and customer cash collateral held at third-party custodians. These amounts are not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but are shown as a reduction to total derivative assets and liabilities in the table to derive net derivative assets and liabilities. 
  For more information on offsetting of securities financing agreements, see   Note 10   Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings  . 

(1)   
    These amounts are limited to the derivative asset/liability balance and, accordingly, do not include excess collateral received/pledged. 
       ALM and Risk Management Derivatives 
  The Corporation s ALM and risk management activities include the use of derivatives to mitigate risk to the Corporation including derivatives designated in qualifying hedge accounting relationships and derivatives used in other risk management activities. Interest rate, foreign exchange, equity, commodity and credit contracts are utilized in the Corporation s ALM and risk management activities. 
  The Corporation maintains an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate contracts, which are generally non-leveraged generic interest rate and basis swaps, options, futures and forwards, to minimize significant fluctuations in earnings caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity and volatility so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings or capital. As a result of interest rate fluctuations, hedged fixed-rate assets and liabilities appreciate or depreciate in fair value. Gains or losses on the derivative instruments that are linked to the hedged fixed-rate assets and liabilities are expected to substantially offset this unrealized appreciation or depreciation. 
  Market risk, including interest rate risk, can be substantial in the mortgage business. Market risk is the risk that values of mortgage assets or revenues will be adversely affected by changes in market conditions such as interest rate movements. To mitigate the interest rate risk in mortgage banking production income, the  

Corporation utilizes forward loan sale commitments and other derivative instruments, including purchased options, and certain debt securities. The Corporation also utilizes derivatives such as interest rate options, interest rate swaps, forward settlement contracts and eurodollar futures to hedge certain market risks of MSRs. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  The Corporation uses foreign exchange contracts to manage the foreign exchange risk associated with certain foreign currency-denominated assets and liabilities, as well as the Corporation s investments in non-U.S. subsidiaries. Foreign exchange contracts, which include spot and forward contracts, represent agreements to exchange the currency of one country for the currency of another country at an agreed-upon price on an agreed-upon settlement date. Exposure to loss on these contracts will increase or decrease over their respective lives as currency exchange and interest rates fluctuate. 
  The Corporation enters into derivative commodity contracts such as futures, swaps, options and forwards as well as non-derivative commodity contracts to provide price risk management services to customers or to manage price risk associated with its physical and financial commodity positions. The non-derivative commodity contracts and physical inventories of commodities expose the Corporation to earnings volatility. Fair value accounting hedges provide a method to mitigate a portion of this earnings volatility. 

The Corporation purchases credit derivatives to manage credit risk related to certain funded and unfunded credit exposures. Credit derivatives include credit default swaps (CDS), total return swaps and swaptions. These derivatives are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income. 
  Derivatives Designated as Accounting Hedges 
  The Corporation uses various types of interest rate, commodity and foreign exchange derivative contracts to protect against changes in the fair value of its assets and liabilities due to fluctuations in interest rates, commodity prices and exchange rates (fair value hedges). The Corporation also uses these types of contracts and equity derivatives to protect against changes in the cash flows of its assets and liabilities, and other forecasted transactions (cash flow hedges). The Corporation hedges its net investment in consolidated non-U.S. operations determined to  

have functional currencies other than the U.S. Dollar using forward exchange contracts and cross-currency basis swaps, and by issuing foreign currency-denominated debt (net investment hedges). 
  Fair Value Hedges 
  The table below summarizes information related to fair value hedges for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , including hedges of interest rate risk on long-term debt that were acquired as part of a business combination and redesignated at that time. At redesignation, the fair value of the derivatives was positive. As the derivatives mature, the fair value will approach zero. As a result, ineffectiveness will occur and the fair value changes in the derivatives and the long-term debt being hedged may be directionally the same in certain scenarios. Based on a regression analysis, the derivatives continue to be highly effective at offsetting changes in the fair value of the long-term debt attributable to interest rate risk. 

(1)   
    Amounts are recorded in interest expense on long-term debt and in other income (loss). 
               (2)   
    Amounts are recorded in interest income on debt securities. 
               (3)   
    Amounts relating to commodity inventory are recorded in trading account profits. 

Cash Flow and Net Investment Hedges 
  The table below summarizes certain information related to cash flow hedges and net investment hedges for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . Of the   $1.1 billion   net loss (after-tax) on derivatives in accumulated OCI for   2015  ,   $563 million   (  $352 million   after-tax) is expected to be reclassified into earnings in the next 12 months. These net losses reclassified into earnings are expected to primarily reduce  

net interest income related to the respective hedged items. Amounts related to price risk on restricted stock awards reclassified from accumulated OCI are recorded in personnel expense. For terminated cash flow hedges, the time period over which substantially all of the forecasted transactions are hedged is approximately   seven years  , with a maximum length of time for certain forecasted transactions of   20 years  . 

(1)   
    Amounts related to cash flow hedges represent hedge ineffectiveness and amounts related to net investment hedges represent amounts excluded from effectiveness testing. 
               (2)   
    The hedge gain (loss) recognized in accumulated OCI is primarily related to the change in the Corporation s stock price for the period. 

Other Risk Management Derivatives 

Other risk management derivatives are used by the Corporation to reduce certain risk exposures. These derivatives are not qualifying accounting hedges because either they did not qualify for or were not designated as accounting hedges. The table below presents gains (losses) on these derivatives for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . These gains (losses) are largely offset by the income or expense that is recorded on the hedged item. 

(1)   
    Net gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in mortgage banking income as they are used to mitigate the interest rate risk related to MSRs, IRLCs and mortgage loans held-for-sale, all of which are measured at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in mortgage banking income. The net gains on IRLCs related to the origination of mortgage loans that are held-for-sale, which are not included in the table but are considered derivative instruments, were   $714 million  ,   $776 million   and   $927 million   for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
               (2)   
    Primarily related to derivatives that are economic hedges of credit risk on loans. Net gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in other income. 
               (3)   
    Primarily related to hedges of debt securities carried at fair value and hedges of foreign currency-denominated debt. Gains (losses) on these derivatives and the related hedged items are recorded in other income. 
               (4)   
    Gains (losses) on these derivatives are recorded in personnel expense. 
       Transfers of Financial Assets with Risk Retained through Derivatives 
  The Corporation enters into certain transactions involving the transfer of financial assets that are accounted for as sales where substantially all of the economic exposure to the transferred financial assets is retained by the Corporation through a derivative agreement with the initial transferee. These transactions are accounted for as sales because the Corporation does not retain control over the assets transferred. 
  Through   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation transferred   $7.9 billion   of primarily non-U.S. government-guaranteed mortgage-backed securities (MBS) to a third-party trust. The Corporation received gross cash proceeds of   $7.9 billion   at the transfer dates. At   December 31, 2015  , the fair value of these securities was   $7.2 billion  . The Corporation simultaneously entered into derivatives with those counterparties whereby the Corporation retained certain economic exposures to those securities (e.g., interest rate and/or credit risk). A derivative asset of   $24 million   and a liability of   $29 million   were recorded at   December 31, 2015   and are included in credit derivatives in the derivative instruments table on page   149  . The economic exposure retained by the Corporation is typically hedged with interest rate swaps and interest rate swaptions. 
  Sales and Trading Revenue 
  The Corporation enters into trading derivatives to facilitate client transactions and to manage risk exposures arising from trading account assets and liabilities. It is the Corporation s policy to include these derivative instruments in its trading activities which  

include derivatives and non-derivative cash instruments. The resulting risk from these derivatives is managed on a portfolio basis as part of the Corporation s   Global Markets   business segment. The related sales and trading revenue generated within   Global Markets   is recorded in various income statement line items including trading account profits and net interest income as well as other revenue categories. 
  Sales and trading revenue includes changes in the fair value and realized gains and losses on the sales of trading and other assets, net interest income, and fees primarily from commissions on equity securities. Revenue is generated by the difference in the client price for an instrument and the price at which the trading desk can execute the trade in the dealer market. For equity securities, commissions related to purchases and sales are recorded in the  Other  column in the Sales and Trading Revenue table. Changes in the fair value of these securities are included in trading account profits. For debt securities, revenue, with the exception of interest associated with the debt securities, is typically included in trading account profits. Unlike commissions for equity securities, the initial revenue related to broker-dealer services for debt securities is typically included in the pricing of the instrument rather than being charged through separate fee arrangements. Therefore, this revenue is recorded in trading account profits as part of the initial mark to fair value. For derivatives, the majority of revenue is included in trading account profits. In transactions where the Corporation acts as agent, which include exchange-traded futures and options, fees are recorded in other income. 

The table below, which includes both derivatives and non-derivative cash instruments, identifies the amounts in the respective income statement line items attributable to the Corporation s sales and trading revenue in   Global Markets  , categorized by primary risk, for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . The difference between total trading account profits in the table below and in the Consolidated Statement of Income represents trading activities in business segments other than   Global Markets  . This table includes DVA and funding valuation adjustment (FVA) gains (losses).   Global Markets   results in     Note 24   Business Segment  

Information   are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent (FTE) basis. The table below is not presented on an FTE basis.  
  The results for   2015   were impacted by the early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments. As such, amounts in the "Other" column for   2015   exclude unrealized DVA resulting from changes in the Corporation s own credit spreads on liabilities accounted for under the fair value option. Amounts for   2014   and   2013   include such amounts. For more information on the new accounting guidance, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 

(1)   
    Represents amounts in investment and brokerage services and other income that are recorded in   Global Markets   and included in the definition of sales and trading revenue. Includes investment and brokerage services revenue of   $2.2 billion  ,   $2.2 billion   and   $2.1 billion   for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
       Credit Derivatives 
  The Corporation enters into credit derivatives primarily to facilitate client transactions and to manage credit risk exposures. Credit derivatives derive value based on an underlying third-party referenced obligation or a portfolio of referenced obligations and generally require the Corporation, as the seller of credit protection, to make payments to a buyer upon the occurrence of a pre-defined credit event. Such credit events generally include bankruptcy of the referenced credit entity and failure to pay under the obligation, as well as acceleration of indebtedness and payment repudiation or moratorium. For credit derivatives based on a portfolio of referenced credits or credit indices, the Corporation may not be required to make payment until a specified amount of loss has  

occurred and/or may only be required to make payment up to a specified amount. 
  Credit derivative instruments where the Corporation is the seller of credit protection and their expiration at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are summarized in the table below. These instruments are classified as investment and non-investment grade based on the credit quality of the underlying referenced obligation. The Corporation considers ratings of BBB- or higher as investment grade. Non-investment grade includes non-rated credit derivative instruments. The Corporation discloses internal categorizations of investment grade and non-investment grade consistent with how risk is managed for these instruments. 

The notional amount represents the maximum amount payable by the Corporation for most credit derivatives. However, the Corporation does not monitor its exposure to credit derivatives based solely on the notional amount because this measure does not take into consideration the probability of occurrence. As such, the notional amount is not a reliable indicator of the Corporation s exposure to these contracts. Instead, a risk framework is used to define risk tolerances and establish limits to help ensure that certain credit risk-related losses occur within acceptable, predefined limits. 
  The Corporation manages its market risk exposure to credit derivatives by entering into a variety of offsetting derivative contracts and security positions. For example, in certain instances, the Corporation may purchase credit protection with identical underlying referenced names to offset its exposure. The carrying value and notional amount of written credit derivatives for which the Corporation held purchased credit derivatives with identical underlying referenced names and terms were   $8.2 billion   and   $706.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   $5.7 billion   and   $880.6 billion   at   December 31, 2014  . 
  Credit-related notes in the table on page   156   include investments in securities issued by CDO, collateralized loan obligation (CLO) and credit-linked note vehicles. These instruments are primarily classified as trading securities. The carrying value of these instruments equals the Corporation s maximum exposure to loss. The Corporation is not obligated to make any payments to the entities under the terms of the securities owned. 
  Credit-related Contingent Features and Collateral 
  The Corporation executes the majority of its derivative contracts in the OTC market with large, international financial institutions, including broker-dealers and, to a lesser degree, with a variety of non-financial companies. A significant majority of the derivative transactions are executed on a daily margin basis. Therefore, events such as a credit rating downgrade (depending on the ultimate rating level) or a breach of credit covenants would typically require an increase in the amount of collateral required of the counterparty, where applicable, and/or allow the Corporation to take additional protective measures such as early termination of all trades. Further, as previously discussed on page   149  , the Corporation enters into legally enforceable master netting agreements which reduce risk by permitting the closeout and netting of transactions with the same counterparty upon the occurrence of certain events. 
  A majority of the Corporation s derivative contracts contain credit risk-related contingent features, primarily in the form of ISDA master netting agreements and credit support documentation that enhance the creditworthiness of these instruments compared to other obligations of the respective counterparty with whom the Corporation has transacted. These contingent features may be for the benefit of the Corporation as well as its counterparties with respect to changes in the Corporation s creditworthiness and the mark-to-market exposure under the derivative transactions. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Corporation held cash and securities collateral of   $78.9 billion   and   $82.0 billion  , and posted cash and securities collateral of   $62.7 billion   and   $67.9 billion   in the normal course of business under derivative agreements. This  

excludes cross-product margining agreements where clients are permitted to margin on a net basis for both derivative and secured financing arrangements. 
  In connection with certain OTC derivative contracts and other trading agreements, the Corporation can be required to provide additional collateral or to terminate transactions with certain counterparties in the event of a downgrade of the senior debt ratings of the Corporation or certain subsidiaries. The amount of additional collateral required depends on the contract and is usually a fixed incremental amount and/or the market value of the exposure. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the amount of collateral, calculated based on the terms of the contracts, that the Corporation and certain subsidiaries could be required to post to counterparties but had not yet posted to counterparties was approximately   $2.9 billion  , including   $1.6 billion   for Bank of America, N.A. (BANA). 
  Some counterparties are currently able to unilaterally terminate certain contracts, or the Corporation or certain subsidiaries may be required to take other action such as find a suitable replacement or obtain a guarantee. At   December 31, 2015  , the current liability recorded for these derivative contracts was   $69 million  . 
  The table below   presents the amount of additional collateral that would have been contractually required by derivative contracts and other trading agreements at     December 31, 2015     if the rating agencies had downgraded their long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries by one incremental notch and by an additional second incremental notch. 

(1)   
    Included in Bank of America Corporation collateral requirements in this table. 
     The table below   presents the derivative liabilities that would be subject to unilateral termination by counterparties and the amounts of collateral that would have been contractually required at     December 31, 2015     if the long-term senior debt ratings for the Corporation or certain subsidiaries had been lower by one incremental notch and by an additional second incremental notch. 

Valuation Adjustments on Derivatives 
  The Corporation records credit risk valuation adjustments on derivatives in order to properly reflect the credit quality of the counterparties and its own credit quality. The Corporation calculates valuation adjustments on derivatives based on a modeled expected exposure that incorporates current market risk factors. The exposure also takes into consideration credit mitigants such as enforceable master netting agreements and collateral. CDS spread data is used to estimate the default probabilities and severities that are applied to the exposures. Where no observable credit default data is available for counterparties, the Corporation uses proxies and other market data to estimate default probabilities and severity. 
  Valuation adjustments on derivatives are affected by changes in market spreads, non-credit related market factors such as interest rate and currency changes that affect the expected exposure, and other factors like changes in collateral arrangements and partial payments. Credit spreads and non-credit factors can move independently. For example, for an interest rate swap, changes in interest rates may increase the expected exposure, which would increase the counterparty credit valuation adjustment (CVA). Independently, counterparty credit spreads may tighten, which would result in an offsetting decrease to CVA. 
  The Corporation early adopted, retrospective to January 1, 2015, the provision of new accounting guidance issued in January 2016 that requires the Corporation to record unrealized DVA resulting from changes in the Corporation s own credit spreads on liabilities accounted for under the fair value option in accumulated OCI. This new accounting guidance had no impact on the accounting for DVA on derivatives. For additional information, see New Accounting Pronouncements in   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
  In 2014, the Corporation implemented a funding valuation adjustment (FVA) into valuation estimates primarily to include  

funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives. The change in estimate resulted in a net pretax FVA charge of   $497 million  , at the time of implementation, including a charge of   $632 million   related to funding costs, partially offset by a funding benefit of   $135 million  , both related to derivative asset exposures. The net FVA charge was recorded as a reduction to sales and trading revenue in   Global Markets  . The Corporation calculates this valuation adjustment based on modeled expected exposure profiles discounted for the funding risk premium inherent in these derivatives. FVA related to derivative assets and liabilities is the effect of funding costs on the fair value of these derivatives. 
  The Corporation enters into risk management activities to offset market driven exposures. The Corporation often hedges the counterparty spread risk in CVA with CDS. The Corporation hedges other market risks in both CVA and DVA primarily with currency and interest rate swaps. In certain instances, the net-of-hedge amounts in the table below move in the same direction as the gross amount or may move in the opposite direction. This is a consequence of the complex interaction of the risks being hedged resulting in limitations in the ability to perfectly hedge all of the market exposures at all times. 
  The table below presents CVA, DVA and FVA gains (losses) on derivatives, which are recorded in trading account profits, on a gross and net of hedge basis for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . CVA gains reduce the cumulative CVA thereby increasing the derivative assets balance. DVA gains increase the cumulative DVA thereby decreasing the derivative liabilities balance. CVA and DVA losses have the opposite impact. FVA gains related to derivative assets reduce the cumulative FVA thereby increasing the derivative assets balance. FVA gains related to derivative liabilities increase the cumulative FVA thereby decreasing the derivative liabilities balance. 

n/a = not applicable 

NOTE 3   Securities 

The table below presents the amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of AFS debt securities, other debt securities carried at fair value, HTM debt securities and AFS marketable equity securities at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(3)   
    Classified in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
     At   December 31, 2015  , the accumulated net unrealized loss on AFS debt securities included in accumulated OCI was   $300 million  , net of the related income tax benefit of   $188 million  . At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Corporation had nonperforming AFS debt securities of   $188 million   and   $161 million  . 

The table below presents the components of other debt securities carried at fair value where the changes in fair value are reported in other income. In     2015  , the Corporation recorded unrealized mark-to-market net gains of     $43 million   and realized net losses of   $313 million  , compared to unrealized mark-to-market net gains of     $1.2 billion     and realized net gains of     $275 million     in     2014  . These amounts exclude hedge results. 

(1)   
    These securities are primarily used to satisfy certain international regulatory liquidity requirements. 

The gross realized gains and losses on sales of AFS debt securities for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   are presented in the table below. 

The table below presents the fair value and the associated gross unrealized losses on AFS debt securities and whether these securities have had gross unrealized losses for less than 12 months or for 12 months or longer at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    Includes other-than-temporarily impaired AFS debt securities on which an OTTI loss, primarily related to changes in interest rates, remains in accumulated OCI. 

The Corporation recorded OTTI losses on AFS debt securities in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   as presented in the Net Credit-related Impairment Losses Recognized in Earnings table. Substantially all OTTI losses in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   consisted of credit losses on non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) and were recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The credit losses on the RMBS in   2015   were driven by decreases in the estimated RMBS cash flows primarily due to a model change resulting in the refinement of expected cash flows.  
  A debt security is impaired when its fair value is less than its amortized cost. If the Corporation intends or will more-likely-than-not be required to sell a debt security prior to recovery, the entire impairment loss is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income. For AFS debt securities the Corporation does not intend or will not more-likely-than-not be required to sell, an analysis is performed to determine if any of the impairment is due to credit or whether it is due to other factors (e.g., interest rate). Credit losses are considered unrecoverable and are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income with the remaining unrealized losses recorded in OCI. In certain instances, the credit loss on a  

debt security may exceed the total impairment, in which case, the excess of the credit loss over the total impairment is recorded as an unrealized gain in OCI. 

The table below presents a rollforward of the credit losses recognized in earnings in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   on AFS debt securities that the Corporation does not have the intent to sell or will not more-likely-than-not be required to sell. 

The Corporation estimates the portion of a loss on a security that is attributable to credit using a discounted cash flow model and estimates the expected cash flows of the underlying collateral using internal credit, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate management s best estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. Assumptions used for the underlying loans that support the MBS can vary widely from loan to loan and are influenced by such factors as loan interest rate, geographic location of the borrower, borrower characteristics and collateral type. Based on these assumptions, the Corporation then determines how the underlying collateral cash flows will be distributed to each MBS issued from the applicable special purpose entity. Expected principal and interest cash flows on an impaired AFS debt security are discounted using the effective yield of each individual impaired AFS debt security. 

Significant assumptions used in estimating the expected cash flows for measuring credit losses on non-agency RMBS were as follows at   December 31, 2015  . 

(1)   
    Represents the range of inputs/assumptions based upon the underlying collateral. 
               (2)   
    The value of a variable below which the indicated percentile of observations will fall. 
     Constant prepayment speed and loss severity rates are projected considering collateral characteristics such as LTV, creditworthiness of borrowers as measured using FICO scores, and geographic concentrations. The weighted-average severity by collateral type was   29.2 percent   for prime,   31.4 percent   for Alt-A and   42.9 percent   for subprime at   December 31, 2015  . Additionally, default rates are projected by considering collateral characteristics including, but not limited to, LTV, FICO and geographic concentration. Weighted-average life default rates by collateral type were   16.1 percent   for prime,   28.0 percent   for Alt-A and   27.2 percent   for subprime at   December 31, 2015  . 

The expected maturity distribution and yields of the Corporation s debt securities carried at fair value and HTM debt securities at   December 31, 2015   are summarized in the table below. Actual maturities may differ from the contractual or expected maturities since borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations with or without prepayment penalties. 

(1)   
    Average yield is computed using the effective yield of each security at the end of the period, weighted based on the amortized cost of each security. The effective yield considers the contractual coupon, amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts, and excludes the effect of related hedging derivatives. 
               (2)   
    Substantially all U.S. agency MBS. 
       Certain Corporate and Strategic Investments 
  The Corporation s   49 percent   investment in a merchant services joint venture, which is recorded in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and in   All Other  , had a carrying value of   $3.0 billion   and   $3.1 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . For additional information, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies  . 
  In 2013, the Corporation sold its remaining investment in China Construction Bank Corporation (CCB) and realized a pretax gain of   $753 million   in   All Other   reported in equity investment income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The strategic assistance agreement between the Corporation and CCB, which includes cooperation in specific business areas, extends through 2016. 
  The Corporation holds investments in partnerships that construct, own and operate real estate projects that qualify for low income housing tax credits. The Corporation earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits allocated to the real estate projects.  

Total low income housing tax credit investments were   $7.1 billion   and   $6.6 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . These investments are reported in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Corporation had unfunded commitments to provide capital contributions of   $2.4 billion   and   $2.2 billion   to these partnerships at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , which are expected to be paid over the next   five years  . These commitments are reported in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. During 2015 and 2014, the Corporation recognized tax credits and other tax benefits from investments in affordable housing partnerships of   $928 million   and   $920 million  , partially offset by pretax losses recognized in other income of   $629 million   and   $601 million  . 

NOTE 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases 
  The following tables present total outstanding loans and leases and an aging analysis for the Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of   $1.7 billion   and nonperforming loans of   $379 million  . Consumer real estate loans 60-89 days past due includes fully-insured loans of   $1.0 billion   and nonperforming loans of   $297 million  . 
               (2)   
    Consumer real estate includes fully-insured loans of   $7.2 billion  . 
               (3)   
    Consumer real estate includes   $3.0 billion   and direct/indirect consumer includes   $21 million   of nonperforming loans. 
               (4)   
    PCI loan amounts are shown gross of the valuation allowance. 
               (5)   
    Total outstandings includes pay option loans of   $2.3 billion  . The Corporation no longer originates this product. 
               (6)   
    Total outstandings includes auto and specialty lending loans of   $42.6 billion  , unsecured consumer lending loans of   $886 million  , U.S. securities-based lending loans of   $39.8 billion  , non-U.S. consumer loans of   $3.9 billion  , student loans of   $564 million   and other consumer loans of   $1.0 billion  . 
               (7)   
    Total outstandings includes consumer finance loans of   $564 million  , consumer leases of   $1.4 billion   and consumer overdrafts of   $146 million  . 
               (8)   
    Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option were residential mortgage loans of   $1.6 billion   and home equity loans of   $250 million  . Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option were U.S. commercial loans of   $2.3 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $2.8 billion  . For additional information, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . 
               (9)   
    Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $53.6 billion   and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $3.5 billion  . 

(1)   
    Consumer real estate loans 30-59 days past due includes fully-insured loans of   $2.1 billion   and nonperforming loans of   $392 million  . Consumer real estate loans 60-89 days past due includes fully-insured loans of   $1.1 billion   and nonperforming loans of   $332 million  . 
               (2)   
    Consumer real estate includes fully-insured loans of   $11.4 billion  . 
               (3)   
    Consumer real estate includes   $3.6 billion   and direct/indirect consumer includes   $27 million   of nonperforming loans. 
               (4)   
    PCI loan amounts are shown gross of the valuation allowance. 
               (5)   
    Total outstandings includes pay option loans of   $3.2 billion  . The Corporation no longer originates this product. 
               (6)   
    Total outstandings includes auto and specialty lending loans of   $37.7 billion  , unsecured consumer lending loans of   $1.5 billion  , U.S. securities-based lending loans of   $35.8 billion  , non-U.S. consumer loans of   $4.0 billion  , student loans of   $632 million   and other consumer loans of   $761 million  . 
               (7)   
    Total outstandings includes consumer finance loans of   $676 million  , consumer leases of   $1.0 billion   and consumer overdrafts of   $162 million  . 
               (8)   
    Consumer loans accounted for under the fair value option were residential mortgage loans of   $1.9 billion   and home equity loans of   $196 million  . Commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option were U.S. commercial loans of   $1.9 billion   and non-U.S. commercial loans of   $4.7 billion  . For additional information, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements   and   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . 
               (9)   
    Total outstandings includes U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $45.2 billion   and non-U.S. commercial real estate loans of   $2.5 billion  . 
       The Corporation has entered into long-term credit protection agreements with FNMA and FHLMC on loans totaling   $3.7 billion   and   $17.2 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , providing full credit protection on residential mortgage loans that become severely delinquent. All of these loans are individually insured and therefore the Corporation does not record an allowance for credit losses related to these loans. 
  Nonperforming Loans and Leases 
  The Corporation classifies junior-lien home equity loans as nonperforming when the first-lien loan becomes   90   days past due even if the junior-lien loan is performing. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  ,   $484 million   and   $800 million   of such junior-lien home equity loans were included in nonperforming loans.  
  The Corporation classifies consumer real estate loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy and not reaffirmed  

by the borrower as TDRs, irrespective of payment history or delinquency status, even if the repayment terms for the loan have not been otherwise modified. The Corporation continues to have a lien on the underlying collateral. At   December 31, 2015  , nonperforming loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms were   $785 million   of which   $457 million   were current on their contractual payments, while   $285 million   were   90   days or more past due. Of the contractually current nonperforming loans, more than   80 percent   were discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy more than 12 months ago, and more than   60 percent   were discharged 24 months or more ago. As subsequent cash payments are received on these nonperforming loans that are contractually current, the interest component of the payments is generally recorded as interest income on a cash basis and the principal component is recorded as a reduction in the carrying value of the loan.  

During   2015  , the Corporation sold nonperforming and other delinquent consumer real estate loans with a carrying value of   $3.2 billion  , including   $1.4 billion   of PCI loans, compared to   $6.7 billion  , including   $1.9 billion   of PCI loans, in   2014  . The Corporation recorded recoveries related to these sales of   $133 million   and   $407 million   during   2015   and   2014  . Gains related to these sales of   $173 million   and   $247 million   were recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income during   2015   and   2014  . 

The table below presents the Corporation s nonperforming loans and leases including nonperforming TDRs, and loans accruing past due   90   days or more at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Nonperforming LHFS are excluded from nonperforming loans and leases as they are recorded at either fair value or the lower of cost or fair value. For more information on the criteria for classification as nonperforming, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 

(1)   
    Residential mortgage loans in the Core and Legacy Assets   Servicing portfolios accruing past due   90   days or more are fully-insured loans. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , residential mortgage includes   $4.3 billion   and   $7.3 billion   of loans on which interest has been curtailed by the FHA, and therefore are no longer accruing interest, although principal is still insured, and   $2.9 billion   and   $4.1 billion   of loans on which interest is still accruing. 
     n/a = not applicable 
      Credit Quality Indicators 
  The Corporation monitors credit quality within its Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments based on primary credit quality indicators. For more information on the portfolio segments, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . Within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, the primary credit quality indicators are refreshed LTV and refreshed FICO score. Refreshed LTV measures the carrying value of the loan as a percentage of the value of the property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly. Home equity loans are evaluated using combined loan-to-value (CLTV) which measures the carrying value of the Corporation s loan and available line of credit combined with any outstanding senior liens against the property as a percentage of the value of the property securing the loan, refreshed quarterly. FICO score measures the creditworthiness of the borrower based on the financial obligations of the borrower and the borrower s credit history. At a minimum,  

FICO scores are refreshed quarterly, and in many cases, more frequently. FICO scores are also a primary credit quality indicator for the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment and the business card portfolio within U.S. small business commercial. Within the Commercial portfolio segment, loans are evaluated using the internal classifications of pass rated or reservable criticized as the primary credit quality indicators. The term reservable criticized refers to those commercial loans that are internally classified or listed by the Corporation as Special Mention, Substandard or Doubtful, which are asset quality categories defined by regulatory authorities. These assets have an elevated level of risk and may have a high probability of default or total loss. Pass rated refers to all loans not considered reservable criticized. In addition to these primary credit quality indicators, the Corporation uses other credit quality indicators for certain types of loans. 

The following tables present certain credit quality indicators for the Corporation s Consumer Real Estate, Credit Card and Other Consumer, and Commercial portfolio segments, by class of financing receivables, at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    Excludes   $1.9 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Excludes PCI loans. 
               (3)   
    Includes   $2.0 billion   of pay option loans. The Corporation no longer originates this product. 
               (4)   
    Refreshed LTV percentages for PCI loans are calculated using the carrying value net of the related valuation allowance. 
               (5)   
    Credit quality indicators are not reported for fully-insured loans as principal repayment is insured. 

(1)   
    Twenty-seven percent   of the other consumer portfolio is associated with portfolios from certain consumer finance businesses that the Corporation previously exited. 
               (2)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. 
               (3)   
    Direct/indirect consumer includes   $43.7 billion   of securities-based lending which is overcollateralized and therefore has minimal credit risk and   $567 million   of loans the Corporation no longer originates, primarily student loans. 
               (4)   
    Non-U.S. credit card represents the U.K. credit card portfolio which is evaluated using internal credit metrics, including delinquency status. At   December 31, 2015  ,   98 percent   of this portfolio was current or less than 30 days past due,   one percent   was 30-89 days past due and   one percent   was 90 days or more past due. 

(1)   
    Excludes   $5.1 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    U.S. small business commercial includes   $670 million   of criticized business card and small business loans which are evaluated using refreshed FICO scores or internal credit metrics, including delinquency status, rather than risk ratings. At   December 31, 2015  ,   98 percent   of the balances where internal credit metrics are used was current or less than 30 days past due. 
               (3)   
    Refreshed FICO score and other internal credit metrics are applicable only to the U.S. small business commercial portfolio. 
               (4)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, application scores, geography or other factors. 

(1)   
    Excludes   $2.1 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    Excludes PCI loans. 
               (3)   
    Includes   $2.8 billion   of pay option loans. The Corporation no longer originates this product. 
               (4)   
    Refreshed LTV percentages for PCI loans are calculated using the carrying value net of the related valuation allowance. 
               (5)   
    Credit quality indicators are not reported for fully-insured loans as principal repayment is insured. 

(1)   
    Thirty-seven percent   of the other consumer portfolio is associated with portfolios from certain consumer finance businesses that the Corporation previously exited. 
               (2)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, geography or other factors. 
               (3)   
    Direct/indirect consumer includes   $39.7 billion   of securities-based lending which is overcollateralized and therefore has minimal credit risk and   $632 million   of loans the Corporation no longer originates, primarily student loans. 
               (4)   
    Non-U.S. credit card represents the U.K. credit card portfolio which is evaluated using internal credit metrics, including delinquency status. At   December 31, 2014  ,   98 percent   of this portfolio was current or less than 30 days past due,   one percent   was 30-89 days past due and   one percent   was 90 days or more past due. 

(1)   
    Excludes   $6.6 billion   of loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (2)   
    U.S. small business commercial includes   $762 million   of criticized business card and small business loans which are evaluated using refreshed FICO scores or internal credit metrics, including delinquency status, rather than risk ratings. At   December 31, 2014  ,   98 percent   of the balances where internal credit metrics are used was current or less than 30 days past due. 
               (3)   
    Refreshed FICO score and other internal credit metrics are applicable only to the U.S. small business commercial portfolio. 
               (4)   
    Other internal credit metrics may include delinquency status, application scores, geography or other factors. 

Impaired Loans and Troubled Debt Restructurings 
  A loan is considered impaired when, based on current information, it is probable that the Corporation will be unable to collect all amounts due from the borrower in accordance with the contractual terms of the loan. Impaired loans include nonperforming commercial loans and all consumer and commercial TDRs. Impaired loans exclude nonperforming consumer loans and nonperforming commercial leases unless they are classified as TDRs. Loans accounted for under the fair value option are also excluded. PCI loans are excluded and reported separately on page   178  . For additional information, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
  Consumer Real Estate 
  Impaired consumer real estate loans within the Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment consist entirely of TDRs. Excluding PCI loans, most modifications of consumer real estate loans meet the definition of TDRs when a binding offer is extended to a borrower. Modifications of consumer real estate loans are done in accordance with the government s Making Home Affordable Program (modifications under government programs) or the Corporation s proprietary programs (modifications under proprietary programs). These modifications are considered to be TDRs if concessions have been granted to borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Concessions may include reductions in interest rates, capitalization of past due amounts, principal and/or interest forbearance, payment extensions, principal and/or interest forgiveness, or combinations thereof. 
  Prior to permanently modifying a loan, the Corporation may enter into trial modifications with certain borrowers under both government and proprietary programs. Trial modifications generally represent a three- to four-month period during which the borrower makes monthly payments under the anticipated modified payment terms. Upon successful completion of the trial period, the Corporation and the borrower enter into a permanent modification. Binding trial modifications are classified as TDRs when the trial offer is made and continue to be classified as TDRs regardless of whether the borrower enters into a permanent modification. 
  Consumer real estate loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms and not reaffirmed by the borrower of   $1.8 billion   were included in TDRs at   December 31, 2015  , of which   $785 million   were classified as nonperforming and   $765 million   were loans fully-insured by the FHA. For more information on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, see Nonperforming Loans and Leases in this Note. 
  A consumer real estate loan, excluding PCI loans which are reported separately, is not classified as impaired unless it is a TDR. Once such a loan has been designated as a TDR, it is then individually assessed for impairment. Consumer real estate TDRs are measured primarily based on the net present value of the estimated cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate, as discussed in the following paragraph. If the carrying value of a TDR exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is recorded as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses. Alternatively, consumer real estate TDRs that are  

considered to be dependent solely on the collateral for repayment (e.g., due to the lack of income verification) are measured based on the estimated fair value of the collateral and a charge-off is recorded if the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the collateral. Consumer real estate loans that reached   180   days past due prior to modification had been charged off to their net realizable value, less costs to sell, before they were modified as TDRs in accordance with established policy. Therefore, modifications of consumer real estate loans that are   180   or more days past due as TDRs do not have an impact on the allowance for loan and lease losses nor are additional charge-offs required at the time of modification. Subsequent declines in the fair value of the collateral after a loan has reached   180   days past due are recorded as charge-offs. Fully-insured loans are protected against principal loss, and therefore, the Corporation does not record an allowance for loan and lease losses on the outstanding principal balance, even after they have been modified in a TDR. 
  The net present value of the estimated cash flows used to measure impairment is based on model-driven estimates of projected payments, prepayments, defaults and loss-given-default (LGD). Using statistical modeling methodologies, the Corporation estimates the probability that a loan will default prior to maturity based on the attributes of each loan. The factors that are most relevant to the probability of default are the refreshed LTV, or in the case of a subordinated lien, refreshed CLTV, borrower credit score, months since origination (i.e., vintage) and geography. Each of these factors is further broken down by present collection status (whether the loan is current, delinquent, in default or in bankruptcy). Severity (or LGD) is estimated based on the refreshed LTV for first mortgages or CLTV for subordinated liens. The estimates are based on the Corporation s historical experience as adjusted to reflect an assessment of environmental factors that may not be reflected in the historical data, such as changes in real estate values, local and national economies, underwriting standards and the regulatory environment. The probability of default models also incorporate recent experience with modification programs including redefaults subsequent to modification, a loan s default history prior to modification and the change in borrower payments post-modification. 
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , remaining commitments to lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified in a consumer real estate TDR were immaterial. Consumer real estate foreclosed properties totaled   $444 million   and   $630 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The carrying value of consumer real estate loans, including fully-insured and PCI loans, for which formal foreclosure proceedings were in process as of   December 31, 2015   was   $5.8 billion  . During   2015   and   2014  , the Corporation reclassified   $2.1 billion   and   $1.9 billion   of consumer real estate loans to foreclosed properties or, for properties acquired upon foreclosure of certain government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans), to other assets. The reclassifications represent non-cash investing activities and, accordingly, are not reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 

The table below provides the unpaid principal balance, carrying value and related allowance at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and the average carrying value and interest income recognized for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   for impaired loans in the Corporation s Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment, and includes primarily  

loans managed by   Legacy Assets   Servicing (LAS)  . Certain impaired consumer real estate loans do not have a related allowance as the current valuation of these impaired loans exceeded the carrying value, which is net of previously recorded charge-offs. 

(1)   
    Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible.  

The table below presents the   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average pre- and post-modification interest rates on consumer real estate loans that were modified in TDRs during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , and net charge-offs recorded during the period in which the modification  

occurred. The following Consumer Real Estate portfolio segment tables include loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the period and also loans that had previously been classified as TDRs and were modified again during the period. These TDRs are primarily managed by   LAS  . 

(2)   
    The post-modification interest rate reflects the interest rate applicable only to permanently completed modifications, which exclude loans that are in a trial modification period. 
               (3)   
    Net charge-offs include amounts recorded on loans modified during the period that are no longer held by the Corporation at   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   due to sales and other dispositions. 

The table below presents the   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   carrying value for consumer real estate loans that were modified in a TDR during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , by type of modification. 

(1)   
    Includes other modifications such as term or payment extensions and repayment plans. 
               (2)   
    Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs. 

The table below presents the carrying value of consumer real estate loans that entered into payment default during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   that were modified in a TDR during the 12 months preceding payment default. A payment default for consumer real estate TDRs is recognized when a borrower has missed   three    

monthly payments (not necessarily consecutively) since modification. Payment defaults on a trial modification where the borrower has not yet met the terms of the agreement are included in the table below if the borrower is   90   days or more past due three months after the offer to modify is made. 

(2)   
    Includes loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy with no change in repayment terms that are classified as TDRs. 
               (3)   
    Includes   $1.7 billion   of trial modification offers made in connection with the 2014 settlement with the U.S. Department of Justice to which the customer has not responded for   2015  . 
         Credit Card and Other Consumer 
  Impaired loans within the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment consist entirely of loans that have been modified in TDRs (the renegotiated credit card and other consumer TDR portfolio, collectively referred to as the renegotiated TDR portfolio). The Corporation seeks to assist customers that are experiencing financial difficulty by modifying loans while ensuring compliance with federal, local and international laws and guidelines. Credit card and other consumer loan modifications generally involve reducing the interest rate on the account and placing the customer on a fixed payment plan not exceeding   60   months, all of which are considered TDRs. In addition, the accounts of non-U.S. credit card customers who do not qualify for a fixed payment plan may have their interest rates reduced, as required by certain local jurisdictions. These modifications, which are also TDRs, tend to experience higher payment default rates given that the borrowers may lack the ability to repay even with the interest rate reduction. In substantially all cases, the customer s available line of credit is canceled. The Corporation makes loan modifications directly with borrowers for debt held only by the Corporation (internal programs). Additionally, the Corporation makes loan modifications for borrowers working with third-party renegotiation agencies that provide solutions to customers  entire unsecured debt structures (external programs). The Corporation classifies other secured  

consumer loans that have been discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy as TDRs which are written down to collateral value and placed on nonaccrual status no later than the time of discharge. For more information on the regulatory guidance on loans discharged in Chapter 7 bankruptcy, see Nonperforming Loans and Leases in this Note. 
  All credit card and substantially all other consumer loans that have been modified in TDRs remain on accrual status until the loan is either paid in full or charged off, which occurs no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes   180   days past due or generally at   120   days past due for a loan that has been placed on a fixed payment plan. 
  The allowance for impaired credit card and substantially all other consumer loans is based on the present value of projected cash flows, which incorporates the Corporation s historical payment default and loss experience on modified loans, discounted using the portfolio s average contractual interest rate, excluding promotionally priced loans, in effect prior to restructuring. Credit card and other consumer loans are included in homogeneous pools which are collectively evaluated for impairment. For these portfolios, loss forecast models are utilized that consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, delinquency status, economic trends and credit scores. 

The table below provides the unpaid principal balance, carrying value and related allowance at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and the average carrying value and interest income recognized for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   on the Corporation s renegotiated TDR portfolio in the Credit Card and Other Consumer portfolio segment. 

(1)   
    Includes accrued interest and fees. 
               (2)   
    Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible. 
     The table below provides information on the Corporation s primary modification programs for the renegotiated TDR portfolio at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    Other TDRs for non-U.S. credit card include modifications of accounts that are ineligible for a fixed payment plan. 

The table below provides information on the Corporation s renegotiated TDR portfolio including the   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   unpaid principal balance, carrying value, and average pre- and post-modification interest rates of loans that were modified in TDRs during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , and net charge-offs recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. 

(1)   
    Includes accrued interest and fees. 
     The table below provides information on the Corporation s primary modification programs for the renegotiated TDR portfolio for loans that were modified in TDRs during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

(1)   
    Other TDRs for non-U.S. credit card include modifications of accounts that are ineligible for a fixed payment plan. 

Credit card and other consumer loans are deemed to be in payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses the second of   two   consecutive payments. Payment defaults are one of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows in the calculation of the allowance for loan and lease losses for impaired credit card and other consumer loans. Based on historical experience, the Corporation estimates that   14   percent of new U.S. credit card TDRs,   88   percent of new non-U.S. credit card TDRs and   12   percent of new direct/indirect consumer TDRs may be in payment default within   12   months after modification. Loans that entered into payment default during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   that had been modified in a TDR during the preceding 12 months were   $43 million  ,   $56 million   and   $61 million   for U.S. credit card,   $152 million  ,   $200 million   and   $236 million   for non-U.S. credit card, and   $3 million  ,   $5 million   and   $12 million   for direct/indirect consumer. 
    Commercial Loans 
  Impaired commercial loans, which include nonperforming loans and TDRs (both performing and nonperforming), are primarily measured based on the present value of payments expected to be received, discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate. Commercial impaired loans may also be measured based on observable market prices or, for loans that are solely dependent on the collateral for repayment, the estimated fair value of collateral, less costs to sell. If the carrying value of a loan exceeds this amount, a specific allowance is recorded as a component of the allowance for loan and lease losses. 
  Modifications of loans to commercial borrowers that are experiencing financial difficulty are designed to reduce the Corporation s loss exposure while providing the borrower with an  

opportunity to work through financial difficulties, often to avoid foreclosure or bankruptcy. Each modification is unique and reflects the individual circumstances of the borrower. Modifications that result in a TDR may include extensions of maturity at a concessionary (below market) rate of interest, payment forbearances or other actions designed to benefit the customer while mitigating the Corporation s risk exposure. Reductions in interest rates are rare. Instead, the interest rates are typically increased, although the increased rate may not represent a market rate of interest. Infrequently, concessions may also include principal forgiveness in connection with foreclosure, short sale or other settlement agreements leading to termination or sale of the loan. 
  At the time of restructuring, the loans are remeasured to reflect the impact, if any, on projected cash flows resulting from the modified terms. If there was no forgiveness of principal and the interest rate was not decreased, the modification may have little or no impact on the allowance established for the loan. If a portion of the loan is deemed to be uncollectible, a charge-off may be recorded at the time of restructuring. Alternatively, a charge-off may have already been recorded in a previous period such that no charge-off is required at the time of modification. For more information on modifications for the U.S. small business commercial portfolio, see Credit Card and Other Consumer in this Note. 
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , remaining commitments to lend additional funds to debtors whose terms have been modified in a commercial loan TDR were immaterial. Commercial foreclosed properties totaled   $15 million   and   $67 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

The table below provides the unpaid principal balance, carrying value and related allowance at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and the average carrying value and interest income recognized for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   for impaired loans in the Corporation s Commercial loan portfolio segment. Certain impaired commercial loans do not have a related allowance as the valuation of these impaired loans exceeded the carrying value, which is net of previously recorded charge-offs. 

(1)   
    Includes U.S. small business commercial renegotiated TDR loans and related allowance. 
               (2)   
    Interest income recognized includes interest accrued and collected on the outstanding balances of accruing impaired loans as well as interest cash collections on nonaccruing impaired loans for which the principal is considered collectible. 

The table below presents the   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   unpaid principal balance and carrying value of commercial loans that were modified as TDRs during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , and net charge-offs that were recorded during the period in which the modification occurred. The table below includes loans that were initially classified as TDRs during the period and also loans that had previously been classified as TDRs and were modified again during the period. 

(1)   
    U.S. small business commercial TDRs are comprised of renegotiated small business card loans. 
     A commercial TDR is generally deemed to be in payment default when the loan is   90   days or more past due, including delinquencies that were not resolved as part of the modification. U.S. small business commercial TDRs are deemed to be in payment default during the quarter in which a borrower misses the second of two consecutive payments. Payment defaults are one of the factors considered when projecting future cash flows, along with observable market prices or fair value of collateral when measuring the allowance for loan and lease losses. TDRs that were in payment default had a carrying value of   $105 million  ,   $103 million   and   $55 million   for U.S. commercial and   $25 million  ,   $211 million   and   $128 million   for commercial real estate at   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013  , respectively. 

Purchased Credit-impaired Loans 
  PCI loans are acquired loans with evidence of credit quality deterioration since origination for which it is probable at purchase date that the Corporation will be unable to collect all contractually required payments.  
  The following table shows activity for the accretable yield on PCI loans, which include the Countrywide Financial Corporation (Countrywide) portfolio and loans repurchased in connection with the 2013 settlement with FNMA. The amount of accretable yield is affected by changes in credit outlooks, including metrics such as default rates and loss severities, prepayment speeds, which can change the amount and period of time over which interest payments are expected to be received, and the interest rates on variable rate loans. The reclassifications from nonaccretable difference during   2015   and   2014   were primarily due to lower expected loss rates and a decrease in the forecasted prepayment speeds. Changes in the prepayment assumption affect the expected remaining life of the portfolio which results in a change to the amount of future interest cash flows. 

During   2015  , the Corporation sold PCI loans with a carrying value of   $1.4 billion  , which excludes the related allowance of   $234 million  . For more information on PCI loans, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  , and for the carrying value and valuation allowance for PCI loans, see   Note 5   Allowance for Credit Losses  . 
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  The Corporation had LHFS of   $7.5 billion   and   $12.8 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Cash and non-cash proceeds from sales and paydowns of loans originally classified as LHFS were   $41.2 billion  ,   $40.1 billion   and   $81.0 billion   for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Cash used for originations and purchases of LHFS totaled   $38.7 billion  ,   $40.1 billion   and   $65.7 billion   for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 

NOTE 5   Allowance for Credit Losses 
  The table below summarizes the changes in the allowance for credit losses by portfolio segment for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

(1)   
    Primarily represents the net impact of portfolio sales, consolidations and deconsolidations, and foreign currency translation adjustments. 
       In   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , for the PCI loan portfolio, the Corporation recorded a provision   benefit   of   $40 million  ,   $31 million   and   $707 million  , respectively. Write-offs in the PCI loan portfolio totaled   $808 million  ,   $810 million   and   $2.3 billion   during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Write-offs included   $234 million  ,   $317 million   and   $414 million   associated with the sale of PCI loans during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. Write-offs in  

2013 also included certain PCI loans that were ineligible for the National Mortgage Settlement, but had characteristics similar to the eligible loans, and the expectation of future cash proceeds was considered remote. The valuation allowance associated with the PCI loan portfolio was   $804 million  ,   $1.7 billion   and   $2.5 billion   at   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 

The table below presents the allowance and the carrying value of outstanding loans and leases by portfolio segment at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    Impaired loans include nonperforming commercial loans and all TDRs, including both commercial and consumer TDRs. Impaired loans exclude nonperforming consumer loans unless they are TDRs, and all consumer and commercial loans accounted for under the fair value option. 
                (3)   
    Amounts are presented gross of the allowance for loan and lease losses. 
      n/a = not applicable 

NOTE 6   Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities 
  The Corporation utilizes variable interest entities (VIEs) in the ordinary course of business to support its own and its customers  financing and investing needs. The Corporation routinely securitizes loans and debt securities using VIEs as a source of funding for the Corporation and as a means of transferring the economic risk of the loans or debt securities to third parties. The assets are transferred into a trust or other securitization vehicle such that the assets are legally isolated from the creditors of the Corporation and are not available to satisfy its obligations. These assets can only be used to settle obligations of the trust or other securitization vehicle. The Corporation also administers, structures or invests in other VIEs including CDOs, investment vehicles and other entities. For more information on the Corporation s utilization of VIEs, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
  The tables in this Note present the assets and liabilities of consolidated and unconsolidated VIEs at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , in situations where the Corporation has continuing involvement with transferred assets or if the Corporation otherwise has a variable interest in the VIE. The tables also present the Corporation s maximum loss exposure at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   resulting from its involvement with consolidated VIEs and unconsolidated VIEs in which the Corporation holds a variable interest. The Corporation s maximum loss exposure is based on the unlikely event that all of the assets in the VIEs become worthless and incorporates not only potential losses associated with assets recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet but also potential losses associated with off-balance sheet commitments such as unfunded liquidity commitments and other contractual arrangements. The Corporation s maximum loss exposure does not include losses previously recognized through write-downs of assets. 
  The Corporation invests in ABS issued by third-party VIEs with which it has no other form of involvement and enters into certain commercial lending arrangements that may also incorporate the use of VIEs to hold collateral. These securities and loans are  

included in   Note 3   Securities   or   Note 4   Outstanding Loans and Leases  .   In addition, the Corporation uses VIEs such as trust preferred securities trusts in connection with its funding activities. For additional information, see   Note 11   Long-term Debt  . The Corporation uses VIEs, such as cash funds managed within   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  , to provide investment opportunities for clients. These VIEs, which are not consolidated by the Corporation, are not included in the tables in this Note. 
  Except as described below, the Corporation did not provide financial support to consolidated or unconsolidated VIEs during   2015   or   2014   that it was not previously contractually required to provide, nor does it intend to do so. 
  First-lien Mortgage Securitizations 
  First-lien Mortgages 
  As part of its mortgage banking activities, the Corporation securitizes a portion of the first-lien residential mortgage loans it originates or purchases from third parties, generally in the form of RMBS guaranteed by government-sponsored enterprises, FNMA and FHLMC (collectively the GSEs), or Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) primarily in the case of FHA-insured and U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA)-guaranteed mortgage loans. Securitization usually occurs in conjunction with or shortly after origination or purchase and the Corporation may also securitize loans held in its residential mortgage portfolio. In addition, the Corporation may, from time to time, securitize commercial mortgages it originates or purchases from other entities. The Corporation typically services the loans it securitizes. Further, the Corporation may retain beneficial interests in the securitization trusts including senior and subordinate securities and equity tranches issued by the trusts. Except as described below and in   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  , the Corporation does not provide guarantees or recourse to the securitization trusts other than standard representations and warranties. 
  The table below summarizes select information related to first-lien mortgage securitizations for   2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    The Corporation transfers residential mortgage loans to securitizations sponsored by the GSEs or GNMA in the normal course of business and receives RMBS in exchange which may then be sold into the market to third-party investors for cash proceeds. 
               (2)   
    A majority of the first-lien residential and commercial mortgage loans securitized are initially classified as LHFS and accounted for under the fair value option. Gains recognized on these LHFS prior to securitization, which totaled   $750 million   and   $715 million  , net of hedges, during   2015   and   2014  , are not included in the table above. 
       In addition to cash proceeds as reported in the table above, the Corporation received securities with an initial fair value of   $22.3 billion   and   $5.4 billion   in connection with first-lien mortgage securitizations in   2015   and   2014  . The receipt of these securities represents non-cash operating and investing activities and, accordingly, is not reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. All of these securities were initially classified as Level 2 assets within the fair value hierarchy. During 2015 and 2014, there were no changes to the initial classification. 
  The Corporation recognizes consumer MSRs from the sale or securitization of first-lien mortgage loans. Servicing fee and ancillary fee income on consumer mortgage loans serviced,  

including securitizations where the Corporation has continuing involvement, were   $1.4 billion   and   $1.8 billion   in   2015   and   2014  . Servicing advances on consumer mortgage loans, including securitizations where the Corporation has continuing involvement, were   $7.8 billion   and   $10.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The Corporation may have the option to repurchase delinquent loans out of securitization trusts, which reduces the amount of servicing advances it is required to make. During   2015   and   2014  ,   $3.7 billion   and   $5.2 billion   of loans were repurchased from first-lien securitization trusts primarily as a result of loan delinquencies or to perform modifications. The majority of these loans repurchased were FHA-insured mortgages collateralizing  

GNMA securities. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights  .  
  During   2015  , the Corporation deconsolidated agency residential mortgage securitization vehicles with total assets of   $4.5 billion   following the sale of retained interests to third parties, after which the Corporation no longer had the unilateral ability to  

liquidate the vehicles. Gains on sale of   $287 million   were recorded in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 
  The table below summarizes select information related to first-lien mortgage securitization trusts in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    Maximum loss exposure includes obligations under loss-sharing reinsurance and other arrangements for non-agency residential mortgage and commercial mortgage securitizations, but excludes the liability for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees and also excludes servicing advances and other servicing rights and obligations. For additional information, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees     and   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
               (2)   
    As a holder of these securities, the Corporation receives scheduled principal and interest payments. During   2015   and   2014  , there were   no   OTTI losses recorded on those securities classified as AFS debt securities. 
               (3)   
    Not included in the table above are all other assets of   $222 million   and   $635 million  , representing the unpaid principal balance of mortgage loans eligible for repurchase from unconsolidated residential mortgage securitization vehicles, principally guaranteed by GNMA, and all other liabilities of   $222 million   and   $635 million  , representing the principal amount that would be payable to the securitization vehicles if the Corporation was to exercise the repurchase option, at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 
               (4)   
    Principal balance outstanding includes loans the Corporation transferred with which it has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loans. 

Other Asset-backed Securitizations 

The table below summarizes select information related to home equity loan, credit card and other asset-backed VIEs in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    For unconsolidated home equity loan VIEs, the maximum loss exposure includes outstanding trust certificates issued by trusts in rapid amortization, net of recorded reserves. For both consolidated and unconsolidated home equity loan VIEs, the maximum loss exposure excludes the liability for representations and warranties obligations and corporate guarantees. For additional information, see   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  . 
                (3)   
    At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , all other assets in the consolidated credit card trust included restricted cash, certain short-term investments, and unbilled accrued interest and fees. 
               (4)   
    As a holder of these securities, the Corporation receives scheduled principal and interest payments. During   2015   and   2014  , there were   no   OTTI losses recorded on those securities classified as AFS or HTM debt securities. 
               (5)   
    The retained senior and subordinate securities were valued using quoted market prices or observable market inputs (Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy). 
               (6)   
    Total assets include loans the Corporation transferred with which it has continuing involvement, which may include servicing the loan. 

Home Equity Loans 
  The Corporation retains interests in home equity securitization trusts to which it transferred home equity loans. These retained interests include senior and subordinate securities and residual interests. In addition, the Corporation may be obligated to provide subordinate funding to the trusts during a rapid amortization event. The Corporation typically services the loans in the trusts. Except as described below and in   Note 7   Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees  , the Corporation does not provide guarantees or recourse to the securitization trusts other than standard representations and warranties. There were no securitizations of home equity loans during   2015   and   2014  , and all of the home equity trusts that hold revolving home equity lines of credit (HELOCs) have entered the rapid amortization phase. 
  The maximum loss exposure in the table above includes the Corporation s obligation to provide subordinate funding to the consolidated and unconsolidated home equity loan securitizations that have entered a rapid amortization phase. During this period, cash payments from borrowers are accumulated to repay outstanding debt securities and the Corporation continues to make advances to borrowers when they draw on their lines of credit. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , home equity loan securitizations in rapid amortization for which the Corporation has a subordinate funding obligation, including both consolidated and unconsolidated trusts, had   $4.0 billion   and   $5.8 billion   of trust certificates outstanding. This amount is significantly greater than the amount the Corporation expects to fund. The charges that will ultimately be recorded as a result of the rapid amortization events depend on the undrawn available credit on the home equity lines, which totaled   $7 million   and   $39 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , as well as performance of the loans, the amount of subsequent draws and the timing of related cash flows. 
  During   2015  , the Corporation deconsolidated several home equity line of credit trusts with total assets of   $488 million   and total liabilities of   $611 million   as its obligation to provide subordinated funding is no longer considered to be a potentially significant variable interest in the trusts following a decline in the amount of credit available to be drawn by borrowers. In connection with deconsolidation, the Corporation recorded a gain of   $123 million   in other income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The derecognition of assets and liabilities represents non-cash investing and financing activities and, accordingly, is not reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 
  Credit Card Securitizations 
  The Corporation securitizes originated and purchased credit card loans. The Corporation s continuing involvement with the securitization trust includes servicing the receivables, retaining an undivided interest (seller s interest) in the receivables, and holding certain retained interests including senior and subordinate securities, subordinate interests in accrued interest and fees on the securitized receivables, and cash reserve accounts. The seller s interest in the trust, which is pari passu to the investors  interest, is classified in loans and leases. 
  During   2015  ,   $2.3 billion   of new senior debt securities were issued to third-party investors from the credit card securitization trust compared to   $4.1 billion   issued during   2014  . 
  The Corporation held subordinate securities issued by the credit card securitization trust with a notional principal amount of   $7.5 billion   and   $7.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . These securities serve as a form of credit enhancement to the senior debt securities and have a stated interest rate of   zero  

percent  . There were   $371 million   of these subordinate securities issued during   2015   and   $662 million   issued during   2014  . 
  Resecuritization Trusts 
  The Corporation transfers existing securities, typically MBS, into resecuritization vehicles at the request of customers seeking securities with specific characteristics. The Corporation may also resecuritize securities within its investment portfolio for purposes of improving liquidity and capital, and managing credit or interest rate risk. Generally, there are no significant ongoing activities performed in a resecuritization trust and no single investor has the unilateral ability to liquidate the trust. 
  The Corporation resecuritized   $30.7 billion   and   $14.4 billion   of securities in   2015   and   2014  . Resecuritizations in   2014   included   $1.5 billion   of AFS debt securities, and gains on sale of   $71 million   were recorded. There were   no   resecuritizations of AFS debt securities during   2015  . Other securities transferred into resecuritization vehicles during   2015   and   2014   were measured at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in trading account profits or other income prior to the resecuritization and no gain or loss on sale was recorded. Resecuritization proceeds included securities with an initial fair value of   $9.8 billion   and   $4.6 billion  , including   $6.9 billion   and   $747 million   which were subsequently classified as HTM during   2015   and   2014  . All of these securities were classified as Level 2 within the fair value hierarchy. 
  Municipal Bond Trusts 
  The Corporation administers municipal bond trusts that hold highly-rated, long-term, fixed-rate municipal bonds. The trusts obtain financing by issuing floating-rate trust certificates that reprice on a weekly or other short-term basis to third-party investors. The Corporation may transfer assets into the trusts and may also serve as remarketing agent and/or liquidity provider for the trusts. The floating-rate investors have the right to tender the certificates at specified dates. Should the Corporation be unable to remarket the tendered certificates, it may be obligated to purchase them at par under standby liquidity facilities. The Corporation also provides credit enhancement to investors in certain municipal bond trusts whereby the Corporation guarantees the payment of interest and principal on floating-rate certificates issued by these trusts in the event of default by the issuer of the underlying municipal bond. 
  The Corporation s liquidity commitments to unconsolidated municipal bond trusts, including those for which the Corporation was transferor, totaled   $1.6 billion   and   $2.1 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The weighted-average remaining life of bonds held in the trusts at   December 31, 2015   was   7.4   years. There were no material write-downs or downgrades of assets or issuers during   2015   and   2014  . 
  Automobile and Other Securitization Trusts 
  The Corporation transfers automobile and other loans into securitization trusts, typically to improve liquidity or manage credit risk. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Corporation serviced assets or otherwise had continuing involvement with automobile and other securitization trusts with outstanding balances of   $314 million   and   $1.9 billion  , including trusts collateralized by automobile loans of   $125 million   and   $400 million  , other loans of   $189 million   and   $876 million  , and student loans of   $0   and   $609 million  . 
  During   2015  , the Corporation deconsolidated a student loan trust with total assets of   $515 million   and total liabilities of   $449  

million   following the transfer of servicing and sale of retained interests to third parties.   No   gain or loss was recorded as a result of the deconsolidation. The derecognition of assets and liabilities represents non-cash investing and financing activities and, accordingly, is not reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. 

Other Variable Interest Entities 
  The table below summarizes select information related to other VIEs in which the Corporation held a variable interest at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

During   2015  , the Corporation consolidated certain customer vehicles after redeeming long-term debt owed to the vehicles and acquiring a controlling financial interest in the vehicles. The Corporation also deconsolidated certain investment vehicles following the sale or disposition of variable interests. These actions resulted in a net decrease in long-term debt of   $1.2 billion   which represents a non-cash financing activity and, accordingly, is not reflected on the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. No gain or loss was recorded as a result of the consolidation or deconsolidation of these VIEs. 
  Customer Vehicles 
  Customer vehicles include credit-linked, equity-linked and commodity-linked note vehicles, repackaging vehicles, and asset acquisition vehicles, which are typically created on behalf of customers who wish to obtain market or credit exposure to a specific company, index, commodity or financial instrument. The Corporation may transfer assets to and invest in securities issued by these vehicles. The Corporation typically enters into credit, equity, interest rate, commodity or foreign currency derivatives to synthetically create or alter the investment profile of the issued securities. 
  The Corporation s maximum loss exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated customer vehicles totaled   $3.9 billion   and   $4.7 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , including the notional amount of derivatives to which the Corporation is a counterparty,  

net of losses previously recorded, and the Corporation s investment, if any, in securities issued by the vehicles. The maximum loss exposure has not been reduced to reflect the benefit of offsetting swaps with the customers or collateral arrangements. The Corporation also had liquidity commitments, including written put options and collateral value guarantees, with certain unconsolidated vehicles of   $691 million   and   $658 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , that are included in the table above. 
  Collateralized Debt Obligation Vehicles 
  The Corporation receives fees for structuring CDO vehicles, which hold diversified pools of fixed-income securities, typically corporate debt or ABS, which the CDO vehicles fund by issuing multiple tranches of debt and equity securities. Synthetic CDOs enter into a portfolio of CDS to synthetically create exposure to fixed-income securities. CLOs, which are a subset of CDOs, hold pools of loans, typically corporate loans. CDOs are typically managed by third-party portfolio managers. The Corporation typically transfers assets to these CDOs, holds securities issued by the CDOs and may be a derivative counterparty to the CDOs, including a CDS counterparty for synthetic CDOs. The Corporation has also entered into total return swaps with certain CDOs whereby the Corporation absorbs the economic returns generated by specified assets held by the CDO. 

The Corporation s maximum loss exposure to consolidated and unconsolidated CDOs totaled   $543 million   and   $780 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . This exposure is calculated on a gross basis and does not reflect any benefit from insurance purchased from third parties. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation had   $922 million   of aggregate liquidity exposure, included in the Other VIEs table net of previously recorded losses, to unconsolidated CDOs which hold senior CDO debt securities or other debt securities on the Corporation s behalf. For additional information, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies  . 
  Investment Vehicles 
  The Corporation sponsors, invests in or provides financing, which may be in connection with the sale of assets, to a variety of investment vehicles that hold loans, real estate, debt securities or other financial instruments and are designed to provide the desired investment profile to investors or the Corporation. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Corporation s consolidated investment vehicles had total assets of   $397 million   and   $1.1 billion  . The Corporation also held investments in unconsolidated vehicles with total assets of   $14.7 billion   and   $11.2 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The Corporation s maximum loss exposure associated with both consolidated and unconsolidated investment vehicles totaled   $5.1 billion   at both   December 31, 2015   and   2014   comprised primarily of on-balance sheet assets less non-recourse liabilities. 
  The Corporation transferred servicing advance receivables to independent third parties in connection with the sale of MSRs. Portions of the receivables were transferred into unconsolidated securitization trusts. The Corporation retained senior interests in such receivables with a maximum loss exposure and funding obligation of   $150 million   and   $660 million  , including a funded  

balance of   $122 million   and   $431 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , which were classified in other debt securities carried at fair value. 
  Leveraged Lease Trusts 
  The Corporation s net investment in consolidated leveraged lease trusts totaled   $2.8 billion   and   $3.3 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The trusts hold long-lived equipment such as rail cars, power generation and distribution equipment, and commercial aircraft. The Corporation structures the trusts and holds a significant residual interest. The net investment represents the Corporation s maximum loss exposure to the trusts in the unlikely event that the leveraged lease investments become worthless. Debt issued by the leveraged lease trusts is non-recourse to the Corporation. 
  Real Estate Vehicles 
  The Corporation held investments in unconsolidated real estate vehicles with total assets of   $6.6 billion   and   $6.2 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , which primarily consisted of investments in unconsolidated limited partnerships that construct, own and operate affordable rental housing and commercial real estate projects. An unrelated third party is typically the general partner and has control over the significant activities of the partnership. The Corporation earns a return primarily through the receipt of tax credits allocated to the real estate projects. The Corporation s risk of loss is mitigated by policies requiring that the project qualify for the expected tax credits prior to making its investment. The Corporation may from time to time be asked to invest additional amounts to support a troubled project. Such additional investments have not been and are not expected to be significant. 

NOTE 7     Representations and Warranties Obligations and Corporate Guarantees 
  Background 
  The Corporation securitizes first-lien residential mortgage loans generally in the form of RMBS guaranteed by the GSEs or by GNMA in the case of FHA-insured, VA-guaranteed and Rural Housing Service-guaranteed mortgage loans, and sells pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans in the form of whole loans. In addition, in prior years, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations (in certain of these securitizations, monoline insurers or other financial guarantee providers insured all or some of the securities) or in the form of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, the Corporation or certain of its subsidiaries or legacy companies made various representations and warranties. These representations and warranties, as set forth in the agreements, related to, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the absence of delinquent taxes or liens against the property securing the loan, the process used to select the loan for inclusion in a transaction, the loan s compliance with any applicable loan criteria, including underwriting standards, and the loan s compliance with applicable federal, state and local laws. Breaches of these representations and warranties have resulted in and may continue to result in the requirement to repurchase mortgage loans or to otherwise make whole or provide other remedies to the GSEs, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) with respect to FHA-insured loans, VA, whole-loan investors, securitization trusts, monoline insurers or other financial guarantors as applicable (collectively, repurchases). In all such cases, subsequent to repurchasing the loan, the Corporation would be exposed to any credit loss on the repurchased mortgage loans after accounting for any mortgage insurance (MI) or mortgage guarantee payments that it may receive. 
  The liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss are based upon currently available information, significant judgment, and a number of factors and assumptions, including those discussed in Liability for Representations and Warranties and Corporate Guarantees in this Note, that are subject to change. Changes to any one of these factors could significantly impact the liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss and could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation s results of operations for any particular period. Given that these factors vary by counterparty, the Corporation analyzes representations and warranties obligations based on the specific counterparty, or type of counterparty, with whom the sale was made. 
  Settlement Actions 
  The Corporation has vigorously contested any request for repurchase where it has concluded that a valid basis for repurchase does not exist and will continue to do so in the future. However, in an effort to resolve legacy mortgage-related issues, the Corporation has reached bulk settlements, including various  

settlements with the GSEs, and including settlement amounts which have been significant, with counterparties in lieu of a loan-by-loan review process. These bulk settlements generally did not cover all transactions with the relevant counterparties or all potential claims that may arise, including in some instances securities law, fraud and servicing claims, which may be addressed separately. The Corporation s liability in connection with the transactions and claims not covered by these settlements could be material to the Corporation s results of operations or liquidity for any particular reporting period. The Corporation may reach other settlements in the future if opportunities arise on terms it believes to be advantageous. However, there can be no assurance that the Corporation will reach future settlements or, if it does, that the terms of past settlements can be relied upon to predict the terms of future settlements. The following provides a summary of the settlement with The Bank of New York Mellon (BNY Mellon); the conditions of the settlement have now been fully satisfied. 
  Settlement with the Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee 
  On April 22, 2015, the New York County Supreme Court entered final judgment approving the BNY Mellon Settlement. In October 2015, BNY Mellon obtained certain state tax opinions and an IRS private letter ruling confirming that the settlement will not impact the real estate mortgage investment conduit tax status of the trusts. The final conditions of the settlement have been satisfied and, accordingly, the Corporation made the settlement payment to BNY Mellon of   $8.5 billion   in February 2016. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, allocation and distribution of the   $8.5 billion   settlement payment is the responsibility of the RMBS trustee, BNY Mellon. On February 5, 2016, BNY Mellon filed an Article 77 proceeding in the New York County Supreme Court asking the court for instruction with respect to certain issues concerning the distribution of each trust s allocable share of the settlement payment and asking that the settlement payment be ordered to be held in escrow pending the outcome of this Article 77 proceeding. The Corporation is not a party to this proceeding.  
  Unresolved Repurchase Claims 
  Unresolved representations and warranties repurchase claims represent the notional amount of repurchase claims made by counterparties, typically the outstanding principal balance or the unpaid principal balance at the time of default. In the case of first-lien mortgages, the claim amount is often significantly greater than the expected loss amount due to the benefit of collateral and, in some cases, MI or mortgage guarantee payments. Claims received from a counterparty remain outstanding until the underlying loan is repurchased, the claim is rescinded by the counterparty, the Corporation determines that the applicable statute of limitations has expired, or representations and warranties claims with respect to the applicable trust are settled, and fully and finally released. When a claim is denied and the Corporation does not receive a response from the counterparty, the claim remains in the unresolved repurchase claims balance until resolution in one of the ways described above. Certain of the claims that have been received are duplicate claims which represent more than one claim outstanding related to a particular loan, typically as the result of bulk claims submitted without individual file reviews. 

The table below presents unresolved repurchase claims at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The unresolved repurchase claims include only claims where the Corporation believes that the counterparty has the contractual right to submit claims. The unresolved repurchase claims predominantly relate to subprime and pay option first-lien loans and home equity loans. For additional information, see   Private-label Securitizations and Whole-loan Sales Experience   in this Note and   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies  . 

(1)   
    The   December 31, 2014   amounts have been updated to reflect additional claims submitted in the fourth quarter of 2014 from a single monoline, currently pursuing litigation, and addressed by the Corporation in 2015 pursuant to an existing litigation schedule. For more information on bond insurance litigation, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies  . 
                (3)   
    The total notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims does not include repurchase claims related to the trusts covered by the BNY Mellon Settlement. 
               (4)   
    At   December 31, 2015  , substantially all of the unresolved monoline claims are currently the subject of litigation with a single monoline insurer and predominately pertain to second-lien loans. 
     During   2015  , the Corporation received   $3.7 billion   in new repurchase claims including   $2.9 billion   of claims submitted without individual loan file reviews. During   2015  ,   $8.1 billion   in claims were resolved, including   $7.4 billion   which are deemed resolved as a result of the New York Court of Appeals decision in   Ace Securities Corp. v. DB Structure Products, Inc.   (ACE). Of the remaining unresolved monoline claims, substantially all of the claims pertain to second-lien loans and are currently the subject of litigation with a single monoline insurer. There may be additional claims or file requests in the future. 
  In addition to the unresolved repurchase claims in the Unresolved Repurchase Claims by Counterparty, net of duplicate claims table, the Corporation has received notifications from sponsors of third-party securitizations with whom the Corporation engaged in whole-loan transactions indicating that the Corporation may have indemnity obligations with respect to loans for which the Corporation has not received a repurchase request. These outstanding notifications totaled   $1.4 billion   and   $2.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 
  The Corporation also from time to time receives correspondence purporting to raise representations and warranties breach issues from entities that do not have contractual standing or ability to bring such claims. The Corporation believes such communications to be procedurally and/or substantively invalid, and generally does not respond.  
  The presence of repurchase claims on a given trust, receipt of notices of indemnification obligations and receipt of other communications, as discussed above, are all factors that inform the Corporation s liability for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss. 

Government-sponsored Enterprises Experience 
  As a result of various bulk settlements with the GSEs, the Corporation has resolved substantially all outstanding and potential representations and warranties repurchase claims on whole loans sold by legacy Bank of America and Countrywide to FNMA and FHLMC through June 30, 2012 and December 31, 2009, respectively. As of   December 31, 2015  , the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims submitted by the GSEs was   $14 million   for loans originated prior to 2009. 
  Private-label Securitizations and Whole-loan Sales Experience 
  Prior to 2009, legacy companies and certain subsidiaries sold pools of first-lien residential mortgage loans and home equity loans as private-label securitizations or in the form of whole loans. In connection with these transactions, the Corporation or certain of its subsidiaries or legacy companies made various representations and warranties. When the Corporation provided representations and warranties in connection with the sale of whole loans, the whole-loan investors may retain the right to make repurchase claims even when the loans were aggregated with other collateral into private-label securitizations sponsored by the whole-loan investors. In other third-party securitizations, the whole-loan investors  rights to enforce the representations and warranties were transferred to the securitization trustees. Private-label securitization investors generally do not have the contractual right to demand repurchase of loans directly or the right to access loan files directly. 
  In private-label securitizations, the applicable contracts provide that investors meet certain presentation thresholds to issue a binding direction to a trustee to assert repurchase claims. However, in certain circumstances, the Corporation believes that trustees have presented repurchase claims without requiring investors to meet contractual voting rights thresholds. New private-label claims are primarily related to repurchase requests received from trustees for private-label securitization transactions not included in the BNY Mellon Settlement. 
  On June 11, 2015, the New York Court of Appeals, New York s highest appellate court, issued its opinion in the ACE case, holding that, under New York law the six-year statute of limitations starts to run at the time the representations and warranties are made, not the date when the repurchase demand was denied. In addition, the Court of Appeals held that compliance with the contractual notice and cure period was a pre-condition to filing suit, and claims that did not comply with such contractual requirements prior to the expiration of the statute of limitations period were invalid. While no entity affiliated with the Corporation was a party to this litigation, the vast majority of the private-label RMBS trusts into which entities affiliated with the Corporation sold loans and made representations and warranties are governed by New York law, and the ACE decision should therefore apply to representations and warranties claims and litigation brought on those RMBS trusts. A significant number of representations and warranties claims and lawsuits brought against the Corporation have involved claims where the statute of limitations has expired under the ACE decision and are therefore time-barred. The Corporation treats time-barred claims as resolved and no longer outstanding; however, while post-ACE case law is in early stages, investors or trustees have sought to distinguish certain aspects of the ACE decision or to assert other claims against other RMBS counterparties seeking to avoid or circumvent the impact of the ACE decision. For example,  

institutional investors have filed lawsuits against trustees based upon alleged contractual, statutory and tort theories of liability and alleging failure to pursue representations and warranties claims and servicer defaults. The potential impact on the Corporation, if any, of such alternative legal theories or assertions, judicial limitations on the ACE decision, or claims seeking to distinguish or avoid the ACE decision is unclear at this time. For more information on repurchase demands, see Unresolved Repurchase Claims in this Note. 
  The private-label securitization agreements generally require that counterparties have the ability to both assert a representations and warranties claim and to actually prove that a loan has an actionable defect under the applicable contracts. While the Corporation believes the agreements for private-label securitizations generally contain less rigorous representations and warranties and place higher burdens on claimants seeking repurchases than the express provisions of comparable agreements with the GSEs, the agreements generally include a representation that underwriting practices were prudent and customary. In the case of private-label securitization trustees and third-party sponsors, there is currently no established process in place for the parties to reach a conclusion on an individual loan if there is a disagreement on the resolution of the claim. Private-label securitization investors generally do not have the contractual right to demand repurchase of loans directly or the right to access loan files directly. For more information on repurchase demands, see   Unresolved Repurchase Claims   in this Note. 
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , for loans originated between   2004   and   2008  , the notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims, net of duplicated claims, submitted by private-label securitization trustees, whole-loan investors, including third-party securitization sponsors, and others was   $16.7 billion   and   $21.2 billion  . These repurchase claims at   December 31, 2015   exclude claims in the amount of   $7.4 billion   where the statute of limitations has expired without litigation being commenced. At   December 31, 2014  , time-barred claims of   $5.2 billion   were included in unresolved repurchase claims. The notional amount of unresolved repurchase claims at both   December 31, 2015 and 2014   includes   $3.5 billion   of claims related to loans in specific private-label securitization groups or tranches where the Corporation owns substantially all of the outstanding securities. 
  The overall decrease in the notional amount of outstanding unresolved repurchase claims in   2015   is primarily due to the impact of time-barred claims under the ACE decision, partially offset by new claims from private-label securitization trustees. Outstanding repurchase claims remain unresolved primarily due to (1) the level of detail, support and analysis accompanying such claims, which impact overall claim quality and, therefore, claims resolution and (2) the lack of an established process to resolve disputes related to these claims. 

The Corporation reviews properly presented repurchase claims on a loan-by-loan basis. Claims that are time-barred are treated as resolved. If, after the Corporation s review of timely claims, it does not believe a claim is valid, it will deny the claim and generally indicate a reason for the denial. When the counterparty agrees with the Corporation s denial of the claim, the counterparty may rescind the claim. When there is disagreement as to the resolution of the claim, meaningful dialogue and negotiation between the parties are generally necessary to reach a resolution on an individual claim. When a claim has been denied and the Corporation does not hear from the counterparty for   six   months, the Corporation views these claims as inactive; however, they remain in the outstanding claims balance until resolution in one of the manners described above. In the case of private-label securitization trustees and third-party sponsors, there is currently no established process in place for the parties to reach a conclusion on an individual loan if there is a disagreement on the resolution of the claim. The Corporation has performed an initial review with respect to substantially all of these claims and, although the Corporation does not believe a valid basis for repurchase has been established by the claimant, it considers such claims activity in the computation of its liability for representations and warranties. 
  Monoline Insurers Experience 
  During   2015  , the Corporation had limited loan-level representations and warranties repurchase claims experience with the monoline insurers due to settlements with several monoline insurers and ongoing litigation with a single monoline insurer. To the extent the Corporation received repurchase claims from the monolines that were properly presented, it generally reviewed them on a loan-by-loan basis. Where the Corporation agrees that there has been a breach of representations and warranties given by the Corporation or subsidiaries or legacy companies that meets contractual requirements for repurchase, settlement is generally reached as to that loan within   60   to   90   days. For more information related to the monolines, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies  . 
  Liability for Representations and Warranties and Corporate Guarantees 
  The liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees is included in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the related provision is included in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The liability for representations and warranties is established when those obligations are both probable and reasonably estimable. 

The Corporation s representations and warranties liability and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss at   December 31, 2015   considers, among other things, implied repurchase experience based on the BNY Mellon Settlement, adjusted to reflect differences between the trusts covered by the settlement and the remainder of the population of private-label securitizations where the statute of limitations for representations and warranties claims has not expired. Since the securitization trusts that were included in the BNY Mellon Settlement differ from those that were not included in the BNY Mellon Settlement, the Corporation adjusted the repurchase experience implied in the settlement in order to determine the representations and warranties liability and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss. 
  The table below presents a rollforward of the liability for representations and warranties and corporate guarantees. 

(1)   
    In February 2016, the Corporation made an   $8.5 billion   settlement payment to BNY Mellon as part of the BNY Mellon Settlement. 
     The representations and warranties liability represents the Corporation s estimate of probable incurred losses as of   December 31, 2015  . However, it is reasonably possible that future representations and warranties losses may occur in excess of the amounts recorded for these exposures. 
  Estimated Range of Possible Loss 
  The Corporation currently estimates that the range of possible loss for representations and warranties exposures could be up to   $2 billion   over existing accruals at   December 31, 2015  . The Corporation treats claims that are time-barred as resolved and does not consider such claims in the estimated range of possible loss. The estimated range of possible loss reflects principally exposures related to loans in private-label securitization trusts. It  

represents a reasonably possible loss, but does not represent a probable loss, and is based on currently available information, significant judgment and a number of assumptions that are subject to change. 
  The liability for representations and warranties exposures and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss do not consider certain losses related to servicing (except as such losses are included as potential costs of the BNY Mellon Settlement), including foreclosure and related costs, fraud, indemnity, or claims (including for RMBS) related to securities law or monoline insurance litigation. Losses with respect to one or more of these matters could be material to the Corporation s results of operations or liquidity for any particular reporting period. 
  Future provisions and/or ranges of possible loss for representations and warranties may be significantly impacted if actual experiences are different from the Corporation s assumptions in predictive models, including, without limitation, the actual repurchase rates on loans in trusts not settled as part of the BNY Mellon settlement which may be different than the implied repurchase experience, estimated MI rescission rates, economic conditions, estimated home prices, consumer and counterparty behavior, the applicable statute of limitations, potential indemnity obligations to third parties to whom the Corporation has sold loans subject to representations and warranties and a variety of other judgmental factors. Adverse developments with respect to one or more of the assumptions underlying the liability for representations and warranties and the corresponding estimated range of possible loss could result in significant increases to future provisions and/or the estimated range of possible loss. 
  Cash Payments 
  During   2015   and   2014  , excluding amounts paid in bulk settlements, the Corporation made loan repurchases and indemnification payments totaling   $229 million   and   $496 million  , respectively for first-lien and home equity loan repurchases and indemnification payments to reimburse investors or securitization trusts. The payments resulted in realized losses of   $128 million   and   $334 million   in 2015 and 2014 on unpaid principal amounts of   $587 million   and   $857 million  , respectively.  
  In February 2016, the Corporation made an   $8.5 billion   settlement payment to BNY Mellon as part of the BNY Mellon Settlement. 

NOTE 8   Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
  Goodwill 
  The table below presents goodwill balances by business segment at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The reporting units utilized for goodwill impairment testing are the operating segments or one level below. 

For purposes of goodwill impairment testing, the Corporation utilizes allocated equity as a proxy for the carrying value of its reporting units. Allocated equity in the reporting units is comprised of allocated capital plus capital for the portion of goodwill and intangibles specifically assigned to the reporting unit. The goodwill impairment test involves comparing the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill, as measured by allocated equity.  
  Annual Impairment Tests 
  The Corporation completed its annual goodwill impairment tests as of June 30,   2015   and   2014   for all applicable reporting units. Based on the results of the annual goodwill impairment test, the Corporation determined there was   no   impairment. 
  Effective January 1, 2015, the Corporation changed its basis of presentation related to its business segments. The realignment triggered a test for goodwill impairment, which was performed both immediately before and after the realignment. The fair value of the affected reporting units exceeded their carrying value and, accordingly, no goodwill impairment resulted from the realignment. 

Intangible Assets 
  The table below presents the gross and net carrying values and accumulated amortization for intangible assets at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    Excludes fully amortized intangible assets. 
                (3)   
    Includes intangible assets associated with trade names that have an indefinite life and, accordingly, are not amortized.  
     The tables below present intangible asset amortization expense for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , and estimated future intangible asset amortization expense as of   December 31, 2015  . 

NOTE 9   Deposits 
    The Corporation had U.S. certificates of deposit and other U.S. time deposits of $100 thousand or more totaling   $28.3 billion   and   $32.4 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . Non-U.S. certificates of deposit and other non-U.S. time deposits of $100 thousand or more totaled   $14.1 billion   and   $14.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The Corporation also had  

aggregate time deposits of   $14.2 billion   in denominations that met or exceeded the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance limit at   December 31, 2015  . The table below presents the contractual maturities for time deposits of $100 thousand or more at   December 31, 2015  . 

The scheduled contractual maturities for total time deposits at   December 31, 2015   are presented in the table below. 

NOTE 10   Federal Funds Sold or Purchased, Securities Financing Agreements and Short-term Borrowings 
  The table below presents federal funds sold or purchased, securities financing agreements, which include securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase, and short-term borrowings. The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing agreements and short-term borrowings under the fair value option. For more information on the election of the fair value option, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . 

n/a = not applicable 
    Bank of America, N.A. maintains a global program to offer up to a maximum of   $75 billion   outstanding at any one time, of bank notes with fixed or floating rates and maturities of at least   seven days   from the date of issue. Short-term bank notes outstanding under this program totaled   $16.8 billion   and   $14.6 billion   at  

December 31, 2015 and 2014  . These short-term bank notes, along with Federal Home Loan Bank (FHLB) advances, U.S. Treasury tax and loan notes, and term federal funds purchased, are included in short-term borrowings on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 

Offsetting of Securities Financing Agreements 
  Substantially all of the Corporation s securities financing activities are transacted under legally enforceable master repurchase agreements or legally enforceable master securities lending agreements that give the Corporation, in the event of default by the counterparty, the right to liquidate securities held and to offset receivables and payables with the same counterparty. The Corporation offsets securities financing transactions with the same counterparty on the Consolidated Balance Sheet where it has such a legally enforceable master netting agreement and the transactions have the same maturity date.  
  The Securities Financing Agreements table presents securities financing agreements included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in federal funds sold and securities borrowed or purchased under agreements to resell, and in federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Balances are presented on a gross basis, prior to the application of counterparty netting. Gross assets and liabilities are adjusted on an aggregate basis to take into consideration the effects of legally enforceable master netting agreements. For more information on the offsetting of derivatives, see   Note 2   Derivatives  . 

The  Other  amount in the table, which is included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet in accrued expenses and other liabilities, relates to transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be pledged as collateral or sold. In these transactions, the Corporation recognizes an asset at fair value, representing the securities received, and a liability, representing the obligation to return those securities. 
  Gross assets and liabilities in the table include activity where uncertainty exists as to the enforceability of certain master netting agreements under bankruptcy laws in some countries or industries and, accordingly, these are reported on a gross basis. 
  The column titled  Financial Instruments  in the table includes securities collateral received or pledged under repurchase or securities lending agreements where there is a legally enforceable master netting agreement. These amounts are not offset on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, but are shown as a reduction to the net balance sheet amount in this table to derive a net asset or liability. Securities collateral received or pledged where the legal enforceability of the master netting agreements is not certain is not included. 

Repurchase Agreements and Securities Loaned Transactions Accounted for as Secured Borrowings 
  The tables below present securities sold under agreements to repurchase and securities loaned by remaining contractual term to maturity and class of collateral pledged. Included in  Other  are transactions where the Corporation acts as the lender in a securities lending agreement and receives securities that can be  

pledged as collateral or sold. Certain agreements contain a right to substitute collateral and/or terminate the agreement prior to maturity at the option of the Corporation or the counterparty. Such agreements are included in the table below based on the remaining contractual term to maturity. At   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation had no outstanding repurchase-to-maturity transactions.  

(1)   
    No agreements have maturities greater than   three years  . 

The Corporation is required to post collateral with a market value equal to or in excess of the principal amount borrowed under repurchase agreements. For securities loaned transactions, the Corporation receives collateral in the form of cash, letters of credit or other securities. To ensure that the market value of the underlying collateral remains sufficient, collateral is generally valued daily and the Corporation may be required to deposit  

additional collateral or may receive or return collateral pledged when appropriate. Repurchase agreements and securities loaned transactions are generally either overnight, continuous (i.e., no stated term) or short-term. The Corporation manages liquidity risks related to these agreements by sourcing funding from a diverse group of counterparties, providing a range of securities collateral and pursuing longer durations, when appropriate. 

NOTE 11   Long-term Debt 
  Long-term debt consists of borrowings having an original maturity of one year or more. The table below presents the balance of long-term debt at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and the related contractual rates and maturity dates as of   December 31, 2015  . 

Bank of America Corporation and Bank of America, N.A. maintain various U.S. and non-U.S. debt programs to offer both senior and subordinated notes. The notes may be denominated in U.S. Dollars or foreign currencies. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the amount of foreign currency-denominated debt translated into U.S. Dollars included in total long-term debt was   $46.4 billion   and   $51.9 billion  . Foreign currency contracts may be used to convert certain foreign currency-denominated debt into U.S. Dollars. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , long-term debt of consolidated VIEs in the table above included debt of credit card, home equity and all other VIEs of   $9.6 billion  ,   $183 million   and   $4.3 billion  , respectively. Long-term debt of VIEs is collateralized by the assets of the VIEs. For additional information, see   Note 6   Securitizations and Other Variable Interest Entities  . 
  The weighted-average effective interest rates for total long-term debt (excluding senior structured notes), total fixed-rate debt and total floating-rate debt were   3.80 percent  ,   4.61 percent   and   0.96 percent  , respectively, at   December 31, 2015   and   3.81 percent  ,   4.83 percent   and   0.80 percent  , respectively, at   December 31,  

2014  . The Corporation s ALM activities maintain an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of interest rate contracts to manage fluctuations in earnings that are caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. The weighted-average rates are the contractual interest rates on the debt and do not reflect the impacts of derivative transactions. 
  Certain senior structured notes and structured liabilities are accounted for under the fair value option. For more information on these notes, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . 
  The table below shows the carrying value for aggregate annual contractual maturities of long-term debt as of   December 31, 2015  . Included in the table are certain structured notes issued by the Corporation that contain provisions whereby the borrowings are redeemable at the option of the holder (put options) at specified dates prior to maturity. Other structured notes have coupon or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities, and the maturity may be accelerated based on the value of a referenced index or  

security. In both cases, the Corporation or a subsidiary may be required to settle the obligation for cash or other securities prior to the contractual maturity date. These borrowings are reflected in the table as maturing at their contractual maturity date. 
  During   2015  , the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of   $40.4 billion    

consisting of   $25.3 billion   for Bank of America Corporation,   $6.6 billion   for Bank of America, N.A. and   $8.5 billion   of other debt. During   2014  , the Corporation had total long-term debt maturities and redemptions in the aggregate of   $53.7 billion   consisting of   $33.9 billion   for Bank of America Corporation,   $8.9 billion   for Bank of America, N.A. and   $10.9 billion   of other debt. 

(1)   
    Represents the total long-term debt included in the liabilities of consolidated VIEs on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
       Trust Preferred and Hybrid Securities 
  Trust preferred securities (Trust Securities) are primarily issued by trust companies (the Trusts) that are not consolidated. These Trust Securities are mandatorily redeemable preferred security obligations of the Trusts. The sole assets of the Trusts generally are junior subordinated deferrable interest notes of the Corporation or its subsidiaries (the Notes). The Trusts generally are   100   percent-owned finance subsidiaries of the Corporation. Obligations associated with the Notes are included in the long-term debt table on page   195  . 
  Certain of the Trust Securities were issued at a discount and may be redeemed prior to maturity at the option of the Corporation. The Trusts generally have invested the proceeds of such Trust Securities in the Notes. Each issue of the Notes has an interest rate equal to the corresponding Trust Securities distribution rate. The Corporation has the right to defer payment of interest on the Notes at any time or from time to time for a period not exceeding five years provided that no extension period may extend beyond the stated maturity of the relevant Notes. During any such extension period, distributions on the Trust Securities will also be deferred and the Corporation s ability to pay dividends on its common and preferred stock will be restricted. 
  The Trust Securities generally are subject to mandatory redemption upon repayment of the related Notes at their stated  

maturity dates or their earlier redemption at a redemption price equal to their liquidation amount plus accrued distributions to the date fixed for redemption and the premium, if any, paid by the Corporation upon concurrent repayment of the related Notes. 
  Periodic cash payments and payments upon liquidation or redemption with respect to Trust Securities are guaranteed by the Corporation or its subsidiaries to the extent of funds held by the Trusts (the Preferred Securities Guarantee). The Preferred Securities Guarantee, when taken together with the Corporation s other obligations including its obligations under the Notes, generally will constitute a full and unconditional guarantee, on a subordinated basis, by the Corporation of payments due on the Trust Securities. 
  On December 29, 2015, the Corporation provided notice of the redemption, which settled on January 29, 2016, of all trust preferred securities of Merrill Lynch Preferred Capital Trust III, Merrill Lynch Preferred Capital Trust IV and Merrill Lynch Preferred Capital Trust V with a total carrying value in the aggregate of $  2.0 billion  . In connection with the Corporation s acquisition of Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. (Merrill Lynch) in 2009, the Corporation recorded a discount to par value as purchase accounting adjustments associated with these Trust Preferred Securities. The Corporation recorded a charge to net interest income of   $612 million   in 2015 related to the discount on the securities. 

The Trust Securities Summary table details the outstanding Trust Securities and the related Notes previously issued which remained outstanding at   December 31, 2015  . 

(1)   
    Notes are denominated in British Pound. Presentation currency is U.S. Dollar. 

NOTE 12   Commitments and Contingencies 
  In the normal course of business, the Corporation enters into a number of off-balance sheet commitments. These commitments expose the Corporation to varying degrees of credit and market risk and are subject to the same credit and market risk limitation reviews as those instruments recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  Credit Extension Commitments 
  The Corporation enters into commitments to extend credit such as loan commitments, SBLCs and commercial letters of credit to meet the financing needs of its customers. The table below includes the notional amount of unfunded legally binding lending commitments net of amounts distributed (e.g., syndicated) to other financial institutions of   $14.3 billion   and   $15.7 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . At   December 31, 2015  , the carrying value of these commitments, excluding commitments  

accounted for under the fair value option, was   $664 million  , including deferred revenue of   $18 million   and a reserve for unfunded lending commitments of   $646 million  . At   December 31, 2014  , the comparable amounts were   $546 million  ,   $18 million   and   $528 million  , respectively. The carrying value of these commitments is classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  The table below also includes the notional amount of commitments of   $10.9 billion   and   $9.9 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   that are accounted for under the fair value option. However, the table below excludes cumulative net fair value of   $658 million   and   $405 million   on these commitments, which is classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities. For more information regarding the Corporation s loan commitments accounted for under the fair value option, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . 

(2)    
    Includes business card unused lines of credit. 
       Legally binding commitments to extend credit generally have specified rates and maturities. Certain of these commitments have adverse change clauses that help to protect the Corporation against deterioration in the borrower s ability to pay. 
  Other Commitments 
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Corporation had commitments to purchase loans (e.g., residential mortgage and commercial real estate) of   $729 million   and   $1.8 billion  , which upon settlement will be included in loans or LHFS. 
  At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Corporation had commitments to purchase commodities, primarily liquefied natural gas of   $1.9 billion   and   $241 million  , which upon settlement will be included in trading account assets. 

At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Corporation had commitments to enter into forward-dated resale and securities borrowing agreements of   $92.6 billion   and   $73.2 billion  , and commitments to enter into forward-dated repurchase and securities lending agreements of   $59.2 billion   and   $55.8 billion  . These commitments expire within the next 12 months. 
  The Corporation is a party to operating leases for certain of its premises and equipment. Commitments under these leases are approximately   $2.5 billion  ,   $2.1 billion  ,   $1.7 billion  ,   $1.5 billion   and   $1.3 billion   for   2016   through   2020  , respectively, and   $4.6 billion   in the aggregate for all years thereafter. 

Other Guarantees 
  Bank-owned Life Insurance Book Value Protection 
  The Corporation sells products that offer book value protection to insurance carriers who offer group life insurance policies to corporations, primarily banks. The book value protection is provided on portfolios of intermediate investment-grade fixed-income securities and is intended to cover any shortfall in the event that policyholders surrender their policies and market value is below book value. These guarantees are recorded as derivatives and carried at fair value in the trading portfolio. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the notional amount of these guarantees totaled   $13.8 billion   and   $13.6 billion  . At both   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Corporation s maximum exposure related to these guarantees totaled   $3.1 billion   with estimated maturity dates between 2031 and 2039. The net fair value including the fee receivable associated with these guarantees was   $12 million   and   $25 million   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , and reflects the probability of surrender as well as the multiple structural protection features in the contracts. 
  Indemnifications 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation enters into various agreements that contain indemnifications, such as tax indemnifications, whereupon payment may become due if certain external events occur, such as a change in tax law. The indemnification clauses are often standard contractual terms and were entered into in the normal course of business based on an assessment that the risk of loss would be remote. These agreements typically contain an early termination clause that permits the Corporation to exit the agreement upon these events. The maximum potential future payment under indemnification agreements is difficult to assess for several reasons, including the occurrence of an external event, the inability to predict future changes in tax and other laws, the difficulty in determining how such laws would apply to parties in contracts, the absence of exposure limits contained in standard contract language and the timing of the early termination clause. Historically, any payments made under these guarantees have been de minimis. The Corporation has assessed the probability of making such payments in the future as remote. 
  Merchant Services 
  In accordance with credit and debit card association rules, the Corporation sponsors merchant processing servicers that process credit and debit card transactions on behalf of various merchants. In connection with these services, a liability may arise in the event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s favor. If the merchant defaults on its obligation to reimburse the cardholder, the cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until six months after the date of the transaction to present a chargeback to the merchant processor, which is primarily liable for any losses on covered transactions. However, if the merchant processor fails to  

meet its obligation to reimburse the cardholder for disputed transactions, then the Corporation, as the sponsor, could be held liable for the disputed amount. In   2015   and   2014  , the sponsored entities processed and settled   $669.0 billion   and   $647.1 billion   of transactions and recorded losses of   $22 million   and   $16 million  . A significant portion of this activity was processed by a joint venture in which the Corporation holds a   49 percent   ownership. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the sponsored merchant processing servicers held as collateral   $181 million   and   $130 million   of merchant escrow deposits which may be used to offset amounts due from the individual merchants. 
  The Corporation believes the maximum potential exposure for chargebacks would not exceed the total amount of merchant transactions processed through Visa and MasterCard for the last six months, which represents the claim period for the cardholder, plus any outstanding delayed-delivery transactions. As of   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the maximum potential exposure for sponsored transactions totaled   $277.1 billion   and   $269.3 billion  . However, the Corporation believes that the maximum potential exposure is not representative of the actual potential loss exposure and does not expect to make material payments in connection with these guarantees. 
  Exchange and Clearing House Member Guarantees 
  The Corporation is a member of various securities and derivative exchanges and clearinghouses, both in the U.S. and other countries. As a member, the Corporation may be required to pay a pro-rata share of the losses incurred by some of these organizations as a result of another member default and under other loss scenarios. The Corporation s potential obligations may be limited to its membership interests in such exchanges and clearinghouses, to the amount (or multiple) of the Corporation s contribution to the guarantee fund or, in limited instances, to the full pro-rata share of the residual losses after applying the guarantee fund. The Corporation s maximum potential exposure under these membership agreements is difficult to estimate; however, the potential for the Corporation to be required to make these payments is remote. 
  Prime Brokerage and Securities Clearing Services  
  In connection with its prime brokerage and clearing businesses, the Corporation performs securities clearance and settlement services with other brokerage firms and clearinghouses on behalf of its clients. Under these arrangements, the Corporation stands ready to meet the obligations of its clients with respect to securities transactions. The Corporation s obligations in this respect are secured by the assets in the clients  accounts and the accounts of their customers as well as by any proceeds received from the transactions cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of clients or their customers. The Corporation s maximum potential exposure under these arrangements is difficult to estimate; however, the potential for the Corporation to incur material losses pursuant to these arrangements is remote. 

Other Derivative Contracts 
  The Corporation funds selected assets, including securities issued by CDOs and CLOs, through derivative contracts, typically total return swaps, with third parties and VIEs that are not consolidated by the Corporation. The total notional amount of these derivative contracts was   $371 million   and   $527 million   with commercial banks and   $921 million   and   $1.2 billion   with VIEs at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The underlying securities are senior securities and substantially all of the Corporation s exposures are insured. Accordingly, the Corporation s exposure to loss consists principally of counterparty risk to the insurers. In certain circumstances, generally as a result of ratings downgrades, the Corporation may be required to purchase the underlying assets, which would not result in additional gain or loss to the Corporation as such exposure is already reflected in the fair value of the derivative contracts. 
  Other Guarantees 
  The Corporation has entered into additional guarantee agreements and commitments, including sold risk participation swaps, liquidity facilities, lease-end obligation agreements, partial credit guarantees on certain leases, real estate joint venture guarantees, divested business commitments and sold put options that require gross settlement. The maximum potential future payment under these agreements was approximately   $6.0 billion   and   $6.2 billion   at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . The estimated maturity dates of these obligations extend up to 2040. The Corporation has made no material payments under these guarantees. 
  In the normal course of business, the Corporation periodically guarantees the obligations of its affiliates in a variety of transactions including ISDA-related transactions and non-ISDA related transactions such as commodities trading, repurchase agreements, prime brokerage agreements and other transactions. 
  Payment Protection Insurance Claims Matter 
  In the U.K., the Corporation previously sold payment protection insurance (PPI) through its international card services business to credit card customers and consumer loan customers. PPI covers a consumer s loan or debt repayment if certain events occur such as loss of job or illness. In response to an elevated level of customer complaints across the industry, heightened media coverage and pressure from consumer advocacy groups, the Prudential Regulation Authority and the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) investigated and raised concerns about the way some companies have handled complaints related to the sale of these insurance policies. In November 2015, the FCA issued proposed guidance on the treatment of certain PPI claims. 
  The reserve was   $360 million   and   $378 million   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . The Corporation recorded expense of   $319 million   and   $621 million   in   2015   and   2014  . It is possible that the Corporation will incur additional expense related to PPI claims; however, the amount of such additional expense cannot be reasonably estimated. 
  Litigation and Regulatory Matters 
  In the ordinary course of business, the Corporation and its subsidiaries are routinely defendants in or parties to many pending and threatened legal, regulatory and governmental actions and proceedings. 
  In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly where the claimants seek very large or indeterminate damages or where the matters present novel legal  

theories or involve a large number of parties, the Corporation generally cannot predict what the eventual outcome of the pending matters will be, what the timing of the ultimate resolution of these matters will be, or what the eventual loss, fines or penalties related to each pending matter may be. 
  In accordance with applicable accounting guidance, the Corporation establishes an accrued liability when those matters present loss contingencies that are both probable and estimable. In such cases, there may be an exposure to loss in excess of any amounts accrued. As a matter develops, the Corporation, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, evaluates on an ongoing basis whether such matter presents a loss contingency that is probable and estimable. Once the loss contingency is deemed to be both probable and estimable, the Corporation will establish an accrued liability and record a corresponding amount of litigation-related expense. The Corporation continues to monitor the matter for further developments that could affect the amount of the accrued liability that has been previously established. Excluding expenses of internal and external legal service providers, litigation-related expense of   $1.2 billion   was recognized for   2015   compared to   $16.4 billion   for   2014  . 
  For a limited number of the matters disclosed in this Note, for which a loss, whether in excess of a related accrued liability or where there is no accrued liability, is reasonably possible in future periods, the Corporation is able to estimate a range of possible loss. In determining whether it is possible to estimate a range of possible loss, the Corporation reviews and evaluates its matters on an ongoing basis, in conjunction with any outside counsel handling the matter, in light of potentially relevant factual and legal developments. In cases in which the Corporation possesses sufficient appropriate information to estimate a range of possible loss, that estimate is aggregated and disclosed below. There may be other disclosed matters for which a loss is probable or reasonably possible but such an estimate of the range of possible loss may not be possible. For those matters where an estimate of the range of possible loss is possible, management currently estimates the aggregate range of possible loss is   $0   to   $2.4 billion   in excess of the accrued liability (if any) related to those matters. This estimated range of possible loss is based upon currently available information and is subject to significant judgment and a variety of assumptions, and known and unknown uncertainties. The matters underlying the estimated range will change from time to time, and actual results may vary significantly from the current estimate. Therefore, this estimated range of possible loss represents what the Corporation believes to be an estimate of possible loss only for certain matters meeting these criteria. It does not represent the Corporation s maximum loss exposure. 
  Information is provided below regarding the nature of all of these contingencies and, where specified, the amount of the claim associated with these loss contingencies. Based on current knowledge, management does not believe that loss contingencies arising from pending matters, including the matters described herein, will have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial position or liquidity of the Corporation. However, in light of the inherent uncertainties involved in these matters, some of which are beyond the Corporation s control, and the very large or indeterminate damages sought in some of these matters, an adverse outcome in one or more of these matters could be material to the Corporation s results of operations or liquidity for any particular reporting period. 

Bond Insurance Litigation 
  Ambac Countrywide Litigation 
  The Corporation, Countrywide and other Countrywide entities are named as defendants in an action filed on September 29, 2010, and as amended on May 28, 2013, by Ambac Assurance Corporation and the Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance Corporation (together, Ambac), entitled   Ambac Assurance Corporation and The Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance Corporation v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., et al  . This action, currently pending in New York Supreme Court, relates to bond insurance policies provided by Ambac on certain securitized pools of second-lien (and in one pool, first-lien) HELOCs, first-lien subprime home equity loans and fixed-rate second-lien mortgage loans. Plaintiffs allege that they have paid claims as a result of defaults in the underlying loans and assert that the Countrywide defendants misrepresented the characteristics of the underlying loans and breached certain contractual representations and warranties regarding the underwriting and servicing of the loans. Plaintiffs also allege that the Corporation is liable based on successor liability theories. Damages claimed by Ambac are in excess of   $2.2 billion   and include the amount of payments for current and future claims it has paid or claims it will be obligated to pay under the policies, increasing over time as it pays claims under relevant policies, plus unspecified punitive damages. 
  On October 22, 2015, the New York Supreme Court granted in part and denied in part Countrywide s motion for summary judgment and Ambac s motion for partial summary judgment. Among other things, the court granted summary judgment dismissing Ambac s claim for rescissory damages and denied summary judgment regarding Ambac s claims for fraud and breach of the insurance agreements. The court also denied the Corporation s motion for summary judgment and granted in part Ambac s motion for partial summary judgment on Ambac s successor-liability claims with respect to a single element of its de facto merger claim. The court denied summary judgment on the other elements of Ambac s de facto merger claim and the other successor-liability claims. Ambac filed its notice of appeal on October 27, 2015. The Corporation filed its notice of appeal on November 16, 2015. Countrywide filed its notice of cross-appeal on November 18, 2015. 
  On December 30, 2014, Ambac filed a second complaint in the same New York Supreme Court against the same defendants, entitled   Ambac Assurance Corporation and The Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance Corporation v.     Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., et al.  , claiming fraudulent inducement against Countrywide, and successor and vicarious liability against the Corporation relating to   eight   partially Ambac-insured RMBS transactions that closed between 2005 and 2007, all backed by negative amortization pay option adjustable-rate mortgage (ARM) loans that were originated in whole or in part by Countrywide.   Seven   of the   eight   securitizations were issued and underwritten by non-parties to the litigation. Ambac claims damages in excess of   $600 million   consisting of all alleged past and future claims against its policies, plus other unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. 
  Also on December 30, 2014, Ambac filed a third action in Wisconsin Circuit Court, Dane County, against Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., entitled   The Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance  

Corporation and Ambac Assurance Corporation v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc.,   claiming that Ambac was fraudulently induced to insure portions of   five   securitizations issued and underwritten in 2005 by a non-party that included Countrywide-originated first-lien negative amortization pay option ARM loans. The complaint seeks damages in excess of   $350 million   for all alleged past and future Ambac insured claims payment obligations, plus other unspecified compensatory and punitive damages. Countrywide filed a motion to dismiss the complaint on February 20, 2015. On July 2, 2015, the court dismissed the complaint for lack of personal jurisdiction. Ambac appealed the dismissal to the Court of Appeals of Wisconsin, District IV, on July 21, 2015. The appeal remains under consideration. 
  On July 21, 2015, Ambac filed a fourth action in New York Supreme Court against Countrywide Home Loans, Inc., entitled   Ambac Assurance Corporation and The Segregated Account of Ambac Assurance Corporation v.     Countrywide Home Loans, Inc  . asserting the same claims for fraudulent inducement that were asserted in the Wisconsin complaint. Ambac simultaneously moved to stay the action pending resolution of its appeal in the Wisconsin action. Countrywide opposed the motion to stay and on August 10, 2015, moved to dismiss the complaint. The court heard argument on the motions on November 18, 2015. Both motions remain under consideration. 
  Ambac First Franklin Litigation 
  On April 16, 2012, Ambac sued First Franklin Financial Corporation (First Franklin), BANA, Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc. (MLPF S), Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. (MLML), and Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors, Inc. (MLMI) in New York Supreme Court. Ambac s claims relate to guaranty insurance Ambac provided on a First Franklin securitization (Franklin Mortgage Loan Trust, Series 2007-FFC). MLML sponsored and Ambac insured certain certificates in the securitization. The complaint alleges that defendants breached representations and warranties concerning, among other things, First Franklin s lending practices, the characteristics of the underlying mortgage loans, the underwriting guidelines followed in originating those loans, and the due diligence conducted with respect to those loans. The complaint asserts claims for fraudulent inducement, breach of contract, indemnification and attorneys  fees. Ambac also asserts breach of contract claims against BANA based upon its servicing of the loans in the securitization. The complaint alleges that Ambac has paid hundreds of millions of dollars in claims and has accrued and continues to accrue tens of millions of dollars in additional claims, and Ambac seeks as damages the total claims it has paid and its projected future claims payment obligations, as well as specific performance of defendants  contractual repurchase obligations. 
  On July 19, 2013, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss Ambac s contract and fraud causes of action but dismissed Ambac s indemnification cause of action. In addition, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss Ambac s claims for attorneys  fees and punitive damages. On September 17, 2015, the court denied Ambac s motion to strike defendants  affirmative defense of in pari delicto and granted Ambac s motion to strike defendants  affirmative defense of unclean hands. 

European Commission - Credit Default Swaps Antitrust Investigation 
  On July 1, 2013, the European Commission (Commission) announced that it had addressed a Statement of Objections (SO) to the Corporation, BANA and Banc of America Securities LLC (together, the Bank of America Entities), a number of other financial institutions, Markit Group Limited, and the International Swaps and Derivatives Association (together, the Parties). The SO set forth the Commission s preliminary conclusion that the Parties infringed European Union competition law by participating in alleged collusion to prevent exchange trading of CDS and futures. According to the SO, the conduct of the Bank of America Entities took place between August 2007 and April 2009. On December 4, 2015, the Commission announced that it was closing its investigation against the Bank of America Entities and the other financial institutions involved in the investigation.  
  Interchange and Related Litigation 
  In 2005, a group of merchants filed a series of putative class actions and individual actions directed at interchange fees associated with Visa and MasterCard payment card transactions. These actions, which were consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York under the caption In Re Payment Card Interchange Fee and Merchant Discount Anti-Trust Litigation (Interchange), named Visa, MasterCard and several banks and BHCs, including the Corporation, as defendants. Plaintiffs allege that defendants conspired to fix the level of default interchange rates and that certain rules of Visa and MasterCard related to merchant acceptance of payment cards at the point of sale were unreasonable restraints of trade. Plaintiffs sought unspecified damages and injunctive relief. On October 19, 2012, defendants settled the matter. 
  The settlement provided for, among other things, (i) payments by defendants to the class and individual plaintiffs totaling approximately   $6.6 billion  , allocated proportionately to each defendant based upon various loss-sharing agreements; (ii) distribution to class merchants of an amount equal to   10 basis points (bps)   of default interchange across all Visa and MasterCard credit card transactions for a period of   eight   consecutive months, which otherwise would have been paid to issuers and which effectively reduces credit interchange for that period of time; and (iii) modifications to certain Visa and MasterCard rules regarding merchant point of sale practices. 
  The court granted final approval of the class settlement agreement on December 13, 2013. Several class members appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the court held oral argument on September 28, 2015. 
  On July 28, 2015, certain objectors to the class settlement filed motions asking the district court to vacate or set aside its final judgment approving the settlement, or in the alternative, to grant further discovery, in light of communications between one of MasterCard s former lawyers and one of the lawyers for the class plaintiffs. The defendants and the class plaintiffs filed responses to the motions on August 18, 2015 and the objectors filed replies on September 2, 2015. The court has not set oral argument. 
  Following approval of the class settlement agreement, a number of class members opted out of the settlement. As a result of various loss-sharing agreements from the main Interchange litigation, the Corporation remains liable for any settlement or judgment in opt-out suits where it is not named as a defendant.  

The Corporation has pending one opt-out suit, as well as an action brought by cardholders. All of the opt-out suits filed to date have been consolidated in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York. On July 18, 2014, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss opt-out complaints filed by merchants, and on November 26, 2014, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the Sherman Act claim in the cardholder complaint. In the cardholder action, the parties have moved for reconsideration of the court s November 26, 2014 decision dismissing the Sherman Act claim, and have also appealed the decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. 
  LIBOR, Other Reference Rate and Foreign Exchange (FX) Inquiries and Litigation 
  Government authorities in the Americas, Europe and the Asia Pacific region continue to conduct investigations and make inquiries of a significant number of FX market participants, including the Corporation, regarding FX market participants  conduct and systems and controls. Government authorities in these regions also continue to conduct investigations concerning submissions made by panel banks in connection with the setting of LIBOR and other reference rates. The Corporation is responding to and cooperating with these investigations.  
  In addition, the Corporation, BANA and certain Merrill Lynch affiliates have been named as defendants along with most of the other LIBOR panel banks in a series of individual and putative class actions relating to defendants  U.S. Dollar LIBOR contributions. All cases naming the Corporation and its affiliates relating to U.S. Dollar LIBOR have been or are in the process of being consolidated for pre-trial purposes in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation. The Corporation expects that any future U.S. Dollar LIBOR cases naming it or its affiliates will similarly be consolidated for pre-trial purposes. Plaintiffs allege that they held or transacted in U.S. Dollar LIBOR-based financial instruments and sustained losses as a result of collusion or manipulation by defendants regarding the setting of U.S. Dollar LIBOR. Plaintiffs assert a variety of claims, including antitrust, Commodity Exchange Act (CEA), Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations (RICO), common law fraud, and breach of contract claims, and seek compensatory, treble and punitive damages, and injunctive relief.  
  In a series of rulings, the court dismissed antitrust, RICO and certain state law claims, and substantially limited the scope of CEA and various other claims. As to the Corporation and BANA, the court also dismissed manipulation claims based on alleged trader conduct. Some claims against the Corporation, BANA and certain Merrill Lynch affiliates remain pending, however, and the court is continuing to consider motions regarding them. Certain plaintiffs are also pursuing an appeal in the Second Circuit of the dismissal of their antitrust claims. 
  In addition, in a consolidated amended complaint filed on March 31, 2014, the Corporation and BANA were named as defendants along with other FX market participants in a putative class action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York on behalf of plaintiffs and a putative class who allegedly transacted in FX and are domiciled in the U.S. or transacted in FX in the U.S. The complaint alleges that class members sustained losses as a result of the defendants  alleged conspiracy to manipulate the WM/Reuters Closing Spot Rates. Plaintiffs assert a single claim for violations of Sections 1 and 3  

of the Sherman Act and seek compensatory and treble damages, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief. 
  On January 28, 2015, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss. In April 2015, the Corporation and BANA agreed to settle the class action for   $180 million  . On September 21, 2015, plaintiffs filed a second consolidated amended complaint, in which they named additional defendants, including MLPF S, added claims for violations of the CEA, and expanded the scope of the FX transactions purportedly affected by the alleged conspiracy to include additional over-the-counter FX transactions and FX transactions on an exchange. On October 1, 2015, the Corporation, BANA and MLPF S executed a final settlement agreement, which included the previously-referenced   $180 million   settlement for persons who transacted in FX over-the-counter and a   $7.5 million   settlement for persons who transacted in FX on an exchange only. The settlement is subject to final court approval. 
  Montgomery 
  The Corporation, several current and former officers and directors, Banc of America Securities LLC (BAS), MLPF S and other unaffiliated underwriters have been named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled   Montgomery v. Bank of America, et al.   Plaintiff filed an amended complaint on January 14, 2011. Plaintiff seeks to represent all persons who acquired certain series of preferred stock offered by the Corporation pursuant to a shelf registration statement dated May 5, 2006. Plaintiff s claims arise from   three   offerings dated January 24, 2008, January 28, 2008 and May 20, 2008, from which the Corporation allegedly received proceeds of   $15.8 billion  . The amended complaint asserts claims under Sections 11, 12(a)(2) and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, and alleges that the prospectus supplements associated with the offerings: (i) failed to disclose that the Corporation s loans, leases, CDOs and commercial MBS were impaired to a greater extent than disclosed; (ii) misrepresented the extent of the impaired assets by failing to establish adequate reserves or properly record losses for its impaired assets; (iii) misrepresented the adequacy of the Corporation s internal controls in light of the alleged impairment of its assets; (iv) misrepresented the Corporation s capital base and Tier 1 leverage ratio for risk-based capital in light of the allegedly impaired assets; and (v) misrepresented the thoroughness and adequacy of the Corporation s due diligence in connection with its acquisition of Countrywide. The amended complaint seeks rescission, compensatory and other damages. On March 16, 2012, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the first amended complaint. On December 3, 2013, the court denied plaintiffs  motion to file a second amended complaint. 
  On June 15, 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the district court s denial of plaintiff s motion to amend. On June 29, 2015, plaintiff filed a petition for rehearing en banc. 
  On July 31, 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals denied plaintiff s petition for rehearing en banc. On January 11, 2016, the U.S. Supreme Court denied plaintiff s petition for a writ of certiorari, thereby exhausting plaintiff s appellate options. 
  Mortgage-backed Securities Litigation 
  The Corporation and its affiliates, Countrywide entities and their affiliates, and Merrill Lynch entities and their affiliates have been named as defendants in a number of cases relating to their various roles as issuer, originator, seller, depositor, sponsor, underwriter  

and/or controlling entity in MBS offerings, pursuant to which the MBS investors were entitled to a portion of the cash flow from the underlying pools of mortgages. These cases generally include purported class action suits and actions by individual MBS purchasers. Although the allegations vary by lawsuit, these cases generally allege that the registration statements, prospectuses and prospectus supplements for securities issued by securitization trusts contained material misrepresentations and omissions, in violation of the Securities Act of 1933 and/or state securities laws and other state statutory and common laws. 
  These cases generally involve allegations of false and misleading statements regarding: (i) the process by which the properties that served as collateral for the mortgage loans underlying the MBS were appraised; (ii) the percentage of equity that mortgage borrowers had in their homes; (iii) the borrowers  ability to repay their mortgage loans; (iv) the underwriting practices by which those mortgage loans were originated; (v) the ratings given to the different tranches of MBS by rating agencies; and (vi) the validity of each issuing trust s title to the mortgage loans comprising the pool for that securitization (collectively, MBS Claims). Plaintiffs in these cases generally seek unspecified compensatory damages, unspecified costs and legal fees and, in some instances, seek rescission. 
  The Corporation, Countrywide, Merrill Lynch and their affiliates may have claims for or may be subject to claims for contractual indemnification in connection with their various roles in regard to MBS. Certain of these entities have received claims for indemnification related to MBS securities actions, including claims from underwriters of MBS that were issued by these entities, and from underwriters and issuers of MBS backed by loans originated by these entities. 
  FHLB Seattle Litigation 
  On December 23, 2009, the Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle (FHLB Seattle) filed   four   separate complaints, each against different defendants, including the Corporation and its affiliates, Countrywide and its affiliates, and MLPF S and its affiliates, as well as certain other defendants, in the Superior Court of Washington for King County entitled   Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle v. UBS Securities LLC, et al.  ;   Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle v. Countrywide Securities Corp., et al.  ;   Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle v. Banc of America Securities LLC, et al.   and   Federal Home Loan Bank of Seattle v. Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith, Inc., et al  . FHLB Seattle asserts certain MBS Claims pertaining to its alleged purchases in   12   MBS offerings between 2005 and 2007. In those complaints, FHLB Seattle seeks, among other relief, unspecified damages under the Securities Act of Washington. On July 19, 2011, the Court denied the defendants  motions to dismiss the complaints. In November 2015, the Court denied motions for summary judgment filed by all defendants that addressed certain common issues, including the method for calculating pre-judgment interest in the event an award of interest is ultimately made under the Securities Act of Washington. Motions for summary judgment filed by defendants addressing issues specific to each complaint and defendant, as well as additional issues common to all defendants, remain pending. 
  Luther Class Action Litigation and Related Actions 
  Beginning in 2007, a number of pension funds and other investors filed putative class action lawsuits alleging certain MBS Claims against Countrywide, several of its affiliates, MLPF S, the  

Corporation, NB Holdings Corporation and certain other defendants. Those class action lawsuits concerned a total of   429   MBS offerings involving over   $350 billion   in securities issued by subsidiaries of Countrywide between 2005 and 2007. The actions, entitled   Luther v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al., Maine State Retirement System v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al., Western Conference of Teamsters Pension Trust Fund v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al.,   and   Putnam Bank v. Countrywide Financial Corporation, et al.  , were all assigned to the Countrywide RMBS MDL court. On December 6, 2013, the court granted final approval to a settlement of these actions in the amount of   $500 million  . Beginning on January 14, 2014, a number of class members appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Oral argument is expected to be held in the second quarter of 2016. 
  Mortgage Repurchase Litigation 
  U.S. Bank Litigation 
  On August 29, 2011, U.S. Bank, National Association (U.S. Bank), as trustee for the HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust 2005-10 (the Trust), a mortgage pool backed by loans originated by Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (CHL), filed a complaint in New York Supreme Court, in a case entitled   U.S. Bank National Association, as Trustee for HarborView Mortgage Loan Trust, Series 2005-10 v. Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. (dba Bank of America Home Loans), Bank of America Corporation, Countrywide Financial Corporation, Bank of America, N.A. and NB Holdings Corporation.   U.S. Bank asserts that, as a result of alleged misrepresentations by CHL in connection with its sale of the loans, defendants must repurchase all the loans in the pool, or in the alternative that it must repurchase a subset of those loans as to which U.S. Bank alleges that defendants have refused specific repurchase demands. U.S. Bank asserts claims for breach of contract and seeks specific performance of defendants  alleged obligation to repurchase the entire pool of loans (alleged to have an original aggregate principal balance of   $1.75 billion  ) or alternatively the aforementioned subset (alleged to have an aggregate principal balance of  over   $100 million   ), together with reimbursement of costs and expenses and other unspecified relief. On May 29, 2013, the New York Supreme Court dismissed U.S. Bank s claim for repurchase of all the mortgage loans in the Trust. The court granted U.S. Bank leave to amend this claim. On June 18, 2013, U.S. Bank filed its second amended complaint seeking to replead its claim for repurchase of all loans in the Trust. 
  On February 13, 2014, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the repleaded claim seeking repurchase of all mortgage loans in the Trust; plaintiff appealed that order. On November 13, 2014, the court granted U.S. Bank s motion for leave to amend the complaint; defendants appealed that order. The amended complaint alleges breach of contract based upon defendants  failure to repurchase loans that were the subject of specific repurchase demands and also alleges breach of contract based upon defendants  discovery, during origination and servicing, of loans with material breaches of representations and warranties. 
  On September 16, 2015, defendants (i) withdrew the appeal that had been noticed, but not briefed, regarding the court s November 13, 2014 order that had granted U.S. Bank s motion for leave to amend, and (ii) moved, on the ground of failure to perfect, for dismissal of U.S. Bank s appeal from the court s February 13, 2014 order that had dismissed a claim seeking  

repurchase of all mortgage loans and sought clarification of a prior dismissal order. On September 30, 2015, U.S. Bank advised the court that it did not oppose dismissal of its appeal from the February 13, 2014 order. On December 15, 2015, defendants  motion to dismiss U.S. Bank s appeal was granted. 
  U.S. Bank Summonses with Notice 
  On August 29, 2014 and September 2, 2014, U.S. Bank National Association (U.S. Bank), solely in its capacity as Trustee for   seven   securitization trusts (the Trusts), served   seven   summonses with notice commencing actions against First Franklin Financial Corporation, Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc., Merrill Lynch Mortgage Investors, Inc. (MLMI), and Ownit Mortgage Solutions Inc. in New York Supreme Court. The summonses advance breach of contract claims alleging that defendants breached representations and warranties related to loans securitized in the Trusts. The summonses allege that defendants failed to repurchase breaching mortgage loans from the Trusts, and seek specific performance of defendants  alleged obligation to repurchase breaching loans, declaratory judgment, compensatory, rescissory and other damages, and indemnity.  
  U.S. Bank has served complaints on   four   of the   seven   Trusts. On December 7, 2015, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss the complaints. The court dismissed claims for breach of representations and warranties against MLMI, dismissed U.S. Bank s claims for indemnity and attorneys  fees, and deferred a ruling regarding defendants  alleged failure to provide notice of alleged representation and warranty breaches, but upheld the complaints in all other respects. Defendants have until June 8, 2016 to demand complaints relating to the remaining three Trusts. 
  O Donnell Litigation 
  On February 24, 2012, Edward O Donnell filed a sealed qui tam complaint under the False Claims Act against the Corporation, individually, and as successor to Countrywide, CHL and a Countrywide business division known as Full Spectrum Lending. On October 24, 2012, the Department of Justice filed a complaint-in-intervention to join the matter, adding a claim under the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) and adding BANA as a defendant. The action is entitled   United States of America, ex rel, Edward O Donnell, appearing Qui Tam v. Bank of America Corp., et al.,   and was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint-in-intervention asserted certain fraud claims in connection with the sale of loans to FNMA and FHLMC by Full Spectrum Lending and by the Corporation and BANA. On January 11, 2013, the government filed an amended complaint which added Countrywide Bank, FSB (CFSB) and a former officer of the Corporation as defendants. The court dismissed False Claims Act counts on May 8, 2013. On September 6, 2013, the government filed a second amended complaint alleging claims under FIRREA concerning allegedly fraudulent loan sales to the GSEs between August 2007 and May 2008. On September 24, 2013, the government dismissed the Corporation as a defendant. Following a trial, on October 23, 2013, a verdict of liability was returned against CHL, CFSB, BANA and the former officer. On July 30, 2014, the court imposed a civil penalty of   $1.3 billion   on BANA. On February 3, 2015, the court denied the Corporation s motions for judgment as a matter of law, or in the alternative, a new trial.  

On February 20, 2015, CHL, CFSB and BANA filed an appeal. The Second Circuit held oral argument on December 16, 2015, but has not issued a decision on the appeal. 
  Pennsylvania Public School Employees  Retirement System 
  The Corporation and several current and former officers were named as defendants in a putative class action filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York entitled   Pennsylvania Public School Employees  Retirement System v. Bank of America, et al. 
  Following the filing of a complaint on February 2, 2011, plaintiff subsequently filed an amended complaint on September 23, 2011 in which plaintiff sought to sue on behalf of all persons who acquired the Corporation s common stock between February 27, 2009 and October 19, 2010 and  Common Equivalent Securities  sold in a December 2009 offering. The amended complaint asserted claims under Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Sections 11 and 15 of the Securities Act of 1933, and alleged that the Corporation s public statements: (i) concealed problems in the Corporation s mortgage servicing business resulting from the widespread use of the Mortgage Electronic Recording System; (ii) failed to disclose the Corporation s exposure to mortgage repurchase claims; (iii) misrepresented the adequacy of internal controls; and (iv) violated certain Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The amended complaint sought unspecified damages. 
  On July 11, 2012, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motions to dismiss the amended complaint. All claims under the Securities Act were dismissed against all defendants, with prejudice. The motion to dismiss the claim against the Corporation under Section 10(b) of the Exchange Act was denied. All claims under the Exchange Act against the officers were dismissed, with leave to replead. Defendants moved to dismiss a second amended complaint in which plaintiff sought to replead claims against certain current and former officers under Sections 10(b) and 20(a). On April 17, 2013, the court granted in part and  

denied in part the motion to dismiss, sustaining Sections 10(b) and 20(a) claims against the current and former officers. 
  On August 12, 2015, the parties agreed to settle the claims for   $335 million  . The agreement is subject to final documentation and court approval. 
  Takefuji Litigation 
  In April 2010, Takefuji Corporation (Takefuji) filed a claim against Merrill Lynch International and Merrill Lynch Japan Securities (MLJS) in Tokyo District Court. The claim concerns Takefuji s purchase in 2007 of credit-linked notes structured and sold by defendants that resulted in a loss to Takefuji of approximately JPY  29.0 billion   (approximately   $270 million  ) following an event of default. Takefuji alleges that defendants failed to meet certain disclosure obligations concerning the notes. 
  On July 19, 2013, the Tokyo District Court issued a judgment in defendants  favor, a decision that Takefuji subsequently appealed to the Tokyo High Court. On August 27, 2014, the Tokyo High Court vacated the decision of the District Court and issued a judgment awarding Takefuji JPY  14.5 billion   (approximately   $135 million  ) in damages, plus interest at a rate of   five percent   from March 18, 2008. On September 10, 2014, defendants filed an appeal with the Japanese Supreme Court. The appeal hearing occurred on February 16, 2016. The Corporation expects a judgment to be issued in the coming months. 
  U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Investigations 
  The SEC has been conducting investigations of the Corporation s U.S. broker-dealer subsidiary, MLPF S, regarding compliance with SEC Rule 15c3-3. The Corporation is cooperating with these investigations and is in discussions with the SEC regarding the possibility of resolving these matters. There can be no assurances that these discussions will lead to a resolution or whether the SEC will institute administrative or civil proceedings. The timing, amount and impact of these matters is uncertain. 

NOTE 13   Shareholders  Equity 
  Common Stock 

On March 11, 2015, the Corporation announced that the Federal Reserve completed its 2015 Comprehensive Capital Analysis and Review (CCAR) and advised that it did not object to the 2015 capital plan but gave a conditional non-objection under which the Corporation was required to resubmit its CCAR capital plan by September 30, 2015 and address certain weaknesses the Federal Reserve identified in the Corporation s capital planning process. The requested capital actions included a request to repurchase   $4.0 billion   of common stock over five quarters beginning in the second quarter of 2015, and to maintain the quarterly common stock dividend at the current rate of   $0.05   per share. The Corporation resubmitted its CCAR capital plan on September 30, 2015 and on December 10, 2015, the Federal Reserve announced that it did not object to the resubmitted CCAR capital plan.  
  In   2015  , the Corporation repurchased and retired   140.3 million   shares of common stock in connection with the 2015 capital plan, which reduced shareholders  equity by   $2.4 billion  . In   2014   and   2013  , the Corporation repurchased and retired   101.1 million   and   231.7 million   shares of common stock, which reduced shareholders  equity by   $1.7 billion   and   $3.2 billion  . 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation had warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase   121.8 million   shares of  

its common stock at an exercise price of   $30.79   per share expiring on October 28, 2018, and warrants outstanding and exercisable to purchase   150.4 million   shares of common stock at an exercise price of   $13.107   per share expiring on January 16, 2019. These warrants were originally issued in connection with preferred stock issuances to the U.S. Department of the Treasury in 2009 and 2008, and are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. The exercise price of the warrants expiring on January 16, 2019 is subject to continued adjustment each time the quarterly cash dividend is in excess of   $0.01   per common share to compensate the holders of the warrants for dilution resulting from an increased dividend. The Corporation had cash dividends of   $0.05   per share per quarter, or   $0.20   per share for the year, in   2015   resulting in an adjustment to the exercise price of these warrants in each quarter. As a result of the Corporation s   2015   dividends of   $0.20   per common share, the exercise price of these warrants was adjusted to   $13.107  . The warrants expiring on October 28, 2018 also contain this anti-dilution provision except the adjustment is triggered only when the Corporation declares quarterly dividends at a level greater than   $0.32   per common share. 
  In connection with the issuance of the Corporation s   6%   Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T (the Series T Preferred Stock), the Corporation issued a warrant to purchase   700 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock. The warrant is exercisable at the holder s option at any time, in whole or in part, until September 1, 2021, at an exercise price of   $7.142857   per share of common stock. The warrant may be settled in cash or by exchanging all or a portion of the Series T Preferred Stock. For more information on the Series T Preferred Stock, see Preferred Stock in this Note. 
  In connection with employee stock plans, in   2015  , the Corporation issued approximately   7 million   shares and repurchased approximately   3 million   shares of its common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations. At   December 31, 2015  , the Corporation had reserved   1.6 billion   unissued shares of common stock for future issuances under employee stock plans, common stock warrants, convertible notes and preferred stock. 

Preferred Stock 
  The cash dividends declared on preferred stock were   $1.5 billion  ,   $1.0 billion   and   $1.2 billion   for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  On January 29, 2016, the Corporation issued   44,000   shares of its   6.200%   Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series CC for   $1.1 billion  . Dividends are paid quarterly commencing on April 29, 2016. Series CC preferred stock has a liquidation preference of   $25,000   per share and is subject to certain restrictions in the event that the Corporation fails to declare and pay full dividends. 
  On January 27, 2015, the Corporation issued   44,000   shares of its   6.500%   Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Y for   $1.1 billion  . Dividends are paid quarterly commencing on April 27, 2015. On March 17, 2015, the corporation issued   76,000   shares of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series AA for   $1.9 billion  . Dividends are paid semi-annually commencing on September 17, 2015. Series Y and AA preferred stock have a liquidation preference of   $25,000   per share and are subject to certain restrictions in the event that the Corporation fails to declare and pay full dividends. 
  At the Corporation s annual meeting of stockholders on May 7, 2014, the stockholders approved an amendment to the Series T Preferred Stock such that it qualifies as Tier 1 capital, and the amendment became effective in the three months ended June 30, 2014. The more significant changes to the terms of the Series T Preferred Stock in the amendment were: (1) dividends are no longer cumulative; (2) the dividend rate is fixed at   6%  ; and (3) the  

Corporation may redeem the Series T Preferred Stock only after the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the amendment.  
  In   2014  , the Corporation issued   $6.0 billion   of its Preferred Stock, Series V, X, W and Z. On June 17, 2014, the Corporation issued   60,000   shares of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V for   $1.5 billion  . Dividends are paid semi-annually commencing on December 17, 2014. On September 5, 2014, the Corporation issued   80,000   shares of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X for   $2.0 billion  . Dividends are paid semi-annually commencing on March 5, 2015. On September 9, 2014, the Corporation issued   44,000   shares of its   6.625%   Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W for   $1.1 billion  . Dividends are paid quarterly commencing on December 9, 2014. On October 23, 2014, the Corporation issued   56,000   shares of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z for   $1.4 billion  . Dividends are paid semi-annually commencing on April 23, 2015. Series V, X, W and Z preferred stock have a liquidation preference of   $25,000   per share and are subject to certain restrictions in the event that the Corporation fails to declare and pay full dividends. 
  In   2013  , the Corporation redeemed for   $6.6 billion   its Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, J, 6, 7 and 8. The   $100 million   difference between the carrying value of   $6.5 billion   and the redemption price of the preferred stock was recorded as a preferred stock dividend. In addition, the Corporation issued   $1.0 billion   of its Fixed-to-Floating Rate Semi-annual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U. 

The table below presents a summary of perpetual preferred stock outstanding at   December 31, 2015  . 

(1)   
    Amounts shown are before third-party issuance costs and certain book value adjustments of   $232 million  . 
               (2)   
    The Corporation may redeem series of preferred stock on or after the redemption date, in whole or in part, at its option, at the liquidation preference plus declared and unpaid dividends. Series B and Series L Preferred Stock do not have early redemption/call rights. 
               (3)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. 
                (5)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/25th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a semi-annual cash dividend, if and when declared, until the first redemption date at which time, it adjusts to a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared, thereafter. 
               (6)   
    Ownership is held in the form of depositary shares, each representing a 1/1,200th interest in a share of preferred stock, paying a quarterly cash dividend, if and when declared. 
      n/a = not applicable 

The   7.25%   Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L (Series L Preferred Stock) listed in the Preferred Stock Summary table does not have early redemption/call rights. Each share of the Series L Preferred Stock may be converted at any time, at the option of the holder, into   20   shares of the Corporation s common stock plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. The Corporation may cause some or all of the Series L Preferred Stock, at its option, at any time or from time to time, to be converted into shares of common stock at the then-applicable conversion rate if, for   20   trading days during any period of   30   consecutive trading days, the closing price of common stock exceeds   130 percent   of the then-applicable conversion price of the Series L Preferred Stock. If a conversion of Series L Preferred Stock occurs at the option of the holder, subsequent to a dividend record date but prior to the dividend payment date, the Corporation will still pay any accrued dividends payable. 
  All series of preferred stock in the Preferred Stock Summary table have a par value of   $0.01   per share, are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund, have no participation rights, and with the exception of the Series L Preferred Stock, are not convertible.  

The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series 1 through 5 Preferred Stock have general voting rights, and the holders of the other series included in the table have no general voting rights. All outstanding series of preferred stock of the Corporation have preference over the Corporation s common stock with respect to the payment of dividends and distribution of the Corporation s assets in the event of a liquidation or dissolution. With the exception of the Series B, F, G and T Preferred Stock, if any dividend payable on these series is in arrears for   three   or more semi-annual or   six   or more quarterly dividend periods, as applicable (whether consecutive or not), the holders of these series and any other class or series of preferred stock ranking equally as to payment of dividends and upon which equivalent voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (voting as a single class) will be entitled to vote for the election of   two   additional directors. These voting rights terminate when the Corporation has paid in full dividends on these series for at least   two   semi-annual or   four   quarterly dividend periods, as applicable, following the dividend arrearage. 

NOTE 14     Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
  The table below presents the changes in accumulated OCI after-tax for   2013  ,   2014   and   2015  . 

(1)   
    For information on the impact of early adoption of new accounting guidance on recognition and measurement of financial instruments, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
               (2)   
    The net change in fair value represents the impact of changes in spot foreign exchange rates on the Corporation s net investment in non-U.S. operations and related hedges. 
     n/a = not applicable 
  The table below presents the net change in fair value recorded in accumulated OCI, net realized gains and losses reclassified into earnings and other changes for each component of OCI before- and after-tax for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

n/a = not applicable 

The table below presents impacts on net income of significant amounts reclassified out of each component of accumulated OCI before- and after-tax for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

n/a = not applicable 

NOTE 15   Earnings Per Common Share 
  The calculation of earnings per common share (EPS) and diluted EPS for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   is presented below. For more information on the calculation of EPS, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 

(1)   
    Includes incremental dilutive shares from restricted stock units, restricted stock, stock options and warrants. 
       The Corporation previously issued a warrant to purchase   700 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock to the holder of the Series T Preferred Stock. The warrant may be exercised, at the option of the holder, through tendering the Series T Preferred Stock or paying cash. For   2015   and   2013  , the   700 million   average dilutive potential common shares were included in the diluted share count under the  if-converted  method. For   2014  , the   700 million   average dilutive potential common shares were not included in the diluted share count because the result would have been antidilutive under the  if-converted  method. For additional information, see   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity  . 
  For   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  ,   62 million   average dilutive potential common shares associated with the Series L Preferred Stock were not included in the diluted share count because the result would have been antidilutive under the  if-converted  method. For   2015  ,  

2014   and   2013  , average options to purchase   66 million  ,   91 million   and   126 million   shares of common stock, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of EPS because the result would have been antidilutive under the treasury stock method. For   2015   and   2014  , average warrants to purchase   122 million   shares of common stock were outstanding but not included in the computation of EPS because the result would have been antidilutive under the treasury stock method compared to   272 million   shares for   2013  . For   2015   and   2014  , average warrants to purchase   150 million   shares of common stock were included in the diluted EPS calculation under the treasury stock method. 
  In connection with the preferred stock actions described in   Note 13   Shareholders  Equity  , the Corporation recorded a   $100 million   non-cash preferred stock dividend in   2013  , which is included in the calculation of net income allocated to common shareholders. 

NOTE 16   Regulatory Requirements and Restrictions 
  The Federal Reserve, Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and FDIC (collectively, U.S. banking regulators) jointly establish regulatory capital adequacy guidelines for U.S. banking organizations. As a financial holding company, the Corporation is subject to capital adequacy rules issued by the Federal Reserve, and its banking entity affiliates, including BANA and Bank of America California, N.A., are subject to capital adequacy rules issued by their respective primary regulators. 
  On January 1, 2014, the Corporation and its affiliates became subject to Basel 3, which includes certain transition provisions through January 1, 2019. The Corporation and its primary banking entity affiliate, BANA, are Advanced approaches institutions under Basel 3. 
  Basel 3 updated the composition of capital and established a Common equity tier 1 capital ratio. Common equity tier 1 capital primarily includes common stock, retained earnings and accumulated OCI. Basel 3 revised minimum capital ratios and buffer requirements, added a supplementary leverage ratio, and addressed the adequately capitalized minimum requirements under the PCA framework. Finally, Basel 3 established two methods  

of calculating risk-weighted assets, the Standardized approach and the Advanced approaches.  
  As an Advanced approaches institution, under Basel 3, the Corporation was required to complete a qualification period (parallel run) to demonstrate compliance with the Basel 3 Advanced approaches to the satisfaction of U.S. banking regulators. The Corporation received approval to begin using the Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2015. Having exited parallel run on October 1, 2015, the Corporation is required to report regulatory risk-based capital ratios and risk-weighted assets under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is used to assess capital adequacy including under the PCA framework, and was the Advanced approaches in the fourth quarter of 2015. Prior to the fourth quarter of 2015, the Corporation was required to report its capital adequacy under the Standardized approach only. 
  The table below presents capital ratios and related information in accordance with Basel 3 Standardized and Advanced approaches       Transition as measured at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   for the Corporation and BANA.  

(1)   
    The Corporation received approval to begin using the Advanced approaches capital framework to determine risk-based capital requirements in the fourth quarter of 2015. With the approval to exit parallel run, the Corporation is required to report regulatory capital risk-weighted assets and ratios under both the Standardized and Advanced approaches. The approach that yields the lower ratio is to be used to assess capital adequacy and was the Advanced approaches at   December 31, 2015  . Prior to exiting parallel run, the Corporation was required to report regulatory capital risk-weighted assets and ratios under the Standardized approach only. As previously disclosed, with the approval to exit parallel run, U.S. banking regulators requested modifications to certain internal analytical models including the wholesale (e.g., commercial) credit models which increased the Corporation s risk-weighted assets in the fourth quarter of 2015. 
               (2)   
    To be  well capitalized  under the current U.S. banking regulatory agency definitions, a bank holding company or national bank must maintain these or higher ratios and not be subject to a Federal Reserve order or directive to maintain higher capital levels. 
               (3)   
    Total capital under the Advanced approaches differs from the Standardized approach due to differences in the amount permitted in Tier 2 capital related to the qualifying allowance for credit losses. 
      n/a = not applicable 

The capital adequacy rules issued by the U.S. banking regulators require institutions to meet the established minimums outlined in the Regulatory Capital under Basel 3   Transition table. Failure to meet the minimum requirements can lead to certain mandatory and discretionary actions by regulators that could have a material adverse impact on the Corporation s financial position. At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Corporation and its banking entity affiliates were "well capitalized." 
  Other Regulatory Matters 
  On February 18, 2014, the Federal Reserve approved a final rule implementing certain enhanced supervisory and prudential requirements established under the 2010 Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. The final rule formalizes risk management requirements primarily related to governance and liquidity risk management and reiterates the provisions of previously issued final rules related to risk-based and leverage capital and stress test requirements. Also, a debt-to-equity limit may be enacted for an individual BHC if it is determined to pose a grave threat to the financial stability of the U.S. Such limit is at the discretion of the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) or the Federal Reserve on behalf of the FSOC.  
  The Federal Reserve requires the Corporation s banking subsidiaries to maintain reserve requirements based on a  

percentage of certain deposits. The average daily reserve balance requirements, in excess of vault cash, maintained by the Corporation with the Federal Reserve were   $9.8 billion   and   $9.1 billion   for   2015   and   2014  . At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the Corporation had cash in the amount of   $12.1 billion   and   $7.7 billion  , and securities with a fair value of   $17.5 billion   and   $19.2 billion   that were segregated in compliance with securities regulations or deposited with clearing organizations. 
  The primary sources of funds for cash distributions by the Corporation to its shareholders are capital distributions received from its banking subsidiaries, BANA and Bank of America California, N.A. In   2015  , the Corporation received dividends of   $18.8 billion   from BANA and   none   from Bank of America California, N.A. The amount of dividends that a subsidiary bank may declare in a calendar year is the subsidiary bank s net profits for that year combined with its retained net profits for the preceding   two   years. Retained net profits, as defined by the OCC, consist of net income less dividends declared during the period. In   2016  , BANA can declare and pay dividends of approximately   $5.0 billion   to the Corporation plus an additional amount equal to its retained net profits for   2016   up to the date of any such dividend declaration. Bank of America California, N.A. can pay dividends of   $895 million   in   2016   plus an additional amount equal to its retained net profits for   2016   up to the date of any such dividend declaration. 

NOTE 17   Employee Benefit Plans 
  Pension and Postretirement Plans 
  The Corporation sponsors a qualified noncontributory trusteed pension plan, a number of noncontributory nonqualified pension plans, and postretirement health and life plans that cover eligible employees. Non-U.S. pension plans sponsored by the Corporation vary based on the country and local practices. 
  In 2013, the Corporation merged a defined benefit pension plan, which covered eligible employees of certain legacy companies, into the legacy Bank of America Pension Plan (the Pension Plan). This merged plan is referred to as the Qualified Pension Plan. The merger resulted in a remeasurement of the qualified pension obligations and plan assets at fair value as of the merger date which increased accumulated OCI by   $2.0 billion  , net-of-tax. The benefit structures under the merged legacy plans have not changed and remain intact in the Qualified Pension Plan.  
  Benefits earned under the Qualified Pension Plan have been frozen. Thereafter, the cash balance accounts continue to earn investment credits or interest credits in accordance with the terms of the plan document. 
  It is the policy of the Corporation to fund no less than the minimum funding amount required by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA). 
  The Pension Plan has a balance guarantee feature for account balances with participant-selected earnings, applied at the time a benefit payment is made from the plan that effectively provides principal protection for participant balances transferred and certain compensation credits. The Corporation is responsible for funding any shortfall on the guarantee feature. 
  The Corporation has an annuity contract that guarantees the payment of benefits vested under a terminated U.S. pension plan (the Other Pension Plan). The Corporation, under a supplemental agreement, may be responsible for, or benefit from actual experience and investment performance of the annuity assets. The Corporation made   no   contribution under this agreement in   2015   or   2014  . Contributions may be required in the future under this agreement. 

The Corporation s noncontributory, nonqualified pension plans are unfunded and provide supplemental defined pension benefits to certain eligible employees. 
  In addition to retirement pension benefits, certain benefits eligible to employees may become eligible to continue participation as retirees in health care and/or life insurance plans sponsored by the Corporation. Based on the other provisions of the individual plans, certain retirees may also have the cost of these benefits partially paid by the Corporation. These plans are referred to as the Postretirement Health and Life Plans. 
  The Pension and Postretirement Plans table summarizes the changes in the fair value of plan assets, changes in the projected benefit obligation (PBO), the funded status of both the accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) and the PBO, and the weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the pension plans and postretirement plans at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Amounts recognized at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are reflected in other assets, and in accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The estimate of the Corporation s PBO associated with these plans considers various actuarial assumptions, including assumptions for mortality rates and discount rates. As of December 31, 2014, the Corporation adopted mortality assumptions published by the Society of Actuaries in October 2014, adjusted to reflect observed and anticipated future mortality experience of the participants in the Corporation s U.S. plans. The adoption of the new mortality assumptions resulted in an increase of the PBO of approximately   $580 million   at   December 31, 2014  . The discount rate assumptions are derived from a cash flow matching technique that utilizes rates that are based on Aa-rated corporate bonds with cash flows that match estimated benefit payments of each of the plans. The increase in the weighted-average discount rates in   2015   resulted in a decrease to the PBO of approximately   $930 million   at   December 31, 2015  . The decrease in the weighted-average discount rates in   2014   resulted in an increase to the PBO of approximately   $1.9 billion   at   December 31, 2014  . 

The Corporation s best estimate of its contributions to be made to the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans in   2016   is   $50 million  ,   $103 million   and   $108 million  , respectively. The Corporation does not expect to make a contribution to the Qualified Pension Plan in   2016  . 

(1)   
    The measurement date for the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans was   December 31   of each year reported. 
     n/a = not applicable 
  Amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are presented in the table below. 

Pension Plans with ABO and PBO in excess of plan assets as of   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are presented in the table below. For the non-qualified plans not subject to ERISA or non-U.S. pension plans, funding strategies vary due to legal requirements and local practices. 

Net periodic benefit cost of the Corporation s plans for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   included the following components. 

n/a = not applicable 
    The asset valuation method used to calculate the expected return on plan assets component of net period benefit cost for the Qualified Pension Plan recognizes   60 percent   of the prior year s market gains or losses at the next measurement date with the remaining   40 percent   spread equally over the subsequent four years. 
  Net periodic postretirement health and life expense was determined using the  projected unit credit  actuarial method. Gains and losses for all benefit plans except postretirement health care are recognized in accordance with the standard amortization provisions of the applicable accounting guidance. For the Postretirement Health Care Plans,   50 percent   of the unrecognized gain or loss at the beginning of the fiscal year (or at subsequent remeasurement) is recognized on a level basis during the year. 

Assumed health care cost trend rates affect the postretirement benefit obligation and benefit cost reported for the Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The assumed health care cost trend rate used to measure the expected cost of benefits covered by the Postretirement Health and Life Plans is   7.00 percent   for   2016  , reducing in steps to   5.00 percent   in 2021 and later years. A one-percentage-point increase in assumed health care cost trend rates would have increased the service and interest costs, and the benefit obligation by   $2 million   and   $34 million   in   2015  . A one-percentage-point decrease in assumed health care cost trend rates would have lowered the service and interest costs, and the benefit obligation by   $2 million   and   $29 million   in   2015  . 
  The Corporation s net periodic benefit cost (income) recognized for the plans is sensitive to the discount rate and expected return  

on plan assets. With all other assumptions held constant, a 25 basis point (bp) decline in the discount rate and expected return on plan asset assumptions would have resulted in an increase in the net periodic benefit cost for the Qualified Pension Plan recognized in   2015   of approximately   $9 million   and   $44 million  , and to be recognized in   2016   of approximately   $9 million   and   $43 million  . For the Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a 25 bp decline in the discount rate would have resulted in an increase in the net periodic benefit cost recognized in   2015   of approximately  

$9 million  , and to be recognized in   2016   of approximately   $8 million  . For the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and the Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, a 25 bp decline in discount rates would not have a significant impact on the net periodic benefit cost for   2015   and   2016  . 
  Pretax amounts included in accumulated OCI for employee benefit plans at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are presented in the table below. 

Pretax amounts recognized in OCI for employee benefit plans in   2015   included the following components. 

The estimated pretax amounts that will be amortized from accumulated OCI into expense in   2016   are presented in the table below. 

Estimated Pretax Amounts Amortized from Accumulated OCI into Period Cost in 2016 

(Dollars in millions) 
    Qualified 
  Pension Plan 
      
    Non-U.S. 
  Pension Plans 
      
    Nonqualified and Other 
  Pension Plans 
      
    Postretirement Health and 
  Life Plans 
      
    Total 
      Net actuarial loss (gain) 
    $ 
    136 

$ 
    6 

$ 
    25 

$ 
    (67 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    100 
      
      Prior service cost 

1 

4 

5 
      
      Total amounts amortized from accumulated OCI 
    $ 
    136 

$ 
    7 

$ 
    25 

$ 
    (63 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    105 

Plan Assets 
  The Qualified Pension Plan has been established as a retirement vehicle for participants, and trusts have been established to secure benefits promised under the Qualified Pension Plan. The Corporation s policy is to invest the trust assets in a prudent manner for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants and defraying reasonable expenses of administration. The Corporation s investment strategy is designed to provide a total return that, over the long term, increases the ratio of assets to liabilities. The strategy attempts to maximize the investment return on assets at a level of risk deemed appropriate by the Corporation while complying with ERISA and any applicable regulations and laws. The investment strategy utilizes asset allocation as a principal determinant for establishing the risk/return profile of the assets. Asset allocation ranges are established, periodically reviewed and adjusted as funding levels  

and liability characteristics change. Active and passive investment managers are employed to help enhance the risk/return profile of the assets. An additional aspect of the investment strategy used to minimize risk (part of the asset allocation plan) includes matching the equity exposure of participant-selected investment measures. For example, the common stock of the Corporation held in the trust is maintained as an offset to the exposure related to participants who elected to receive an investment measure based on the return performance of common stock of the Corporation. No plan assets are expected to be returned to the Corporation during   2016  . 
  The assets of the Non-U.S. Pension Plans are primarily attributable to a U.K. pension plan. This U.K. pension plan s assets are invested prudently so that the benefits promised to members are provided with consideration given the nature and the duration of the plan s liabilities. The current investment strategy was set following an asset-liability study and advice from the trustee s  

investment advisors. The selected asset allocation strategy is designed to achieve a higher return than the lowest risk strategy while maintaining a prudent approach to meeting the plan s liabilities. 
  The expected return on plan assets assumption was developed through analysis of historical market returns, historical asset class volatility and correlations, current market conditions, anticipated future asset allocations, the funds  past experience, and expectations on potential future market returns. The expected return on plan assets assumption is determined using the calculated market-related value for the Qualified Pension Plan and the Other Pension Plan and the fair value for the Non-U.S. Pension Plans and Postretirement Health and Life Plans. The expected  

return on plan assets assumption represents a long-term average view of the performance of the assets in the Qualified Pension Plan, the Non-U.S. Pension Plans, the Other Pension Plan, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans, a return that may or may not be achieved during any one calendar year. The terminated Other U.S. Pension Plan is invested solely in an annuity contract which is primarily invested in fixed-income securities structured such that asset maturities match the duration of the plan s obligations. 
  The target allocations for   2016   by asset category for the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below. 

Equity securities for the Qualified Pension Plan include common stock of the Corporation in the amounts of   $189 million   (  1.05 percent   of total plan assets) and   $215 million   (  1.15 percent   of total plan assets) at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

Fair Value Measurements 
  For information on fair value measurements, including descriptions of Level 1, 2 and 3 of the fair value hierarchy and the valuation methods employed by the Corporation, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles   and   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements  . 
  Combined plan investment assets measured at fair value by level and in total at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are summarized in the Fair Value Measurements table. 

The Level 3 Fair Value Measurements table presents a reconciliation of all plan investment assets measured at fair value using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

Projected Benefit Payments 
  Benefit payments projected to be made from the Qualified Pension Plan, Non-U.S. Pension Plans, Nonqualified and Other Pension Plans, and Postretirement Health and Life Plans are presented in the table below. 

(1)   
    Benefit payments expected to be made from the plan s assets. 
               (2)   
    Benefit payments expected to be made from a combination of the plans  and the Corporation s assets. 
               (3)   
    Benefit payments (net of retiree contributions) expected to be made from a combination of the plans  and the Corporation s assets. 

Defined Contribution Plans 
  The Corporation maintains qualified defined contribution retirement plans and nonqualified defined contribution retirement plans. The Corporation recorded expense of   $1.0 billion  ,   $1.0 billion   and   $1.1 billion   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, related to the qualified defined contribution plans. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  ,   236 million   and   238 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock were held by these plans. Payments to the plans for dividends on common stock were   $48 million  ,   $29 million   and   $10 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Certain non-U.S. employees are covered under defined contribution pension plans that are separately administered in accordance with local laws. 
    NOTE 18   Stock-based Compensation Plans 
  The Corporation administers a number of equity compensation plans, with awards being granted predominantly from the Bank of America Corporation 2003 Key Associate Stock Plan (KASP). Grants in   2015   from the KASP included restricted stock units (RSUs) which generally vest in   three   equal annual installments beginning   one   year from the grant date, and awards which will vest subject to the attainment of specified performance criteria. During   2015  , the Corporation issued   131 million   RSUs to certain employees under the KASP. RSUs may be settled in cash or in shares of common stock depending on the terms of the applicable award. In   2015  ,   two million   of these RSUs were authorized to be settled in shares of common stock with the remainder in cash. Certain awards contain cancellation and clawback provisions which permit the Corporation to cancel or recoup all or a portion of the award under specified circumstances. The compensation cost for these awards is accrued over the vesting period and adjusted to fair value based upon changes in the share price of the Corporation s common stock. 
  For most awards, expense is generally recognized ratably over the vesting period net of estimated forfeitures, unless the employee meets certain retirement eligibility criteria. For awards to employees that meet retirement eligibility criteria, the Corporation records the expense upon grant. For employees that become retirement eligible during the vesting period, the Corporation recognizes expense from the grant date to the date on which the employee becomes retirement eligible, net of estimated forfeitures. The compensation cost for the stock-based  

plans was   $2.17 billion  ,   $2.30 billion   and   $2.28 billion   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. The related income tax benefit was   $824 million  ,   $854 million   and   $842 million   for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  From time to time, the Corporation enters into equity total return swaps to hedge a portion of RSUs granted to certain employees as part of their compensation in prior periods in order to minimize the change in the expense to the Corporation driven by fluctuations in the fair value of the RSUs. Certain of these derivatives are designated as cash flow hedges of unrecognized unvested awards with the changes in fair value of the hedge recorded in accumulated OCI and reclassified into earnings in the same period as the RSUs affect earnings. The remaining derivatives are used to hedge the price risk of cash-settled awards with changes in fair value recorded in personnel expense. For information on amounts recognized on equity total return swaps used to hedge the Corporation s outstanding RSUs, see   Note 2   Derivatives  . 
  On May 6, 2015, Bank of America shareholders approved the amendment and restatement of the KASP, and renamed it the Bank of America Corporation Key Employee Equity Plan (KEEP). Under the amendment and restatement of the KEEP,   450 million   shares of the Corporation s common stock and any shares that were subject to an award as of December 31, 2014 under the KASP, if such award is canceled, terminates, expires, lapses or is settled in cash for any reason from and after January 1, 2015, are authorized to be used for grants of awards. 
  Restricted Stock/Units 
  The table below presents the status at   December 31, 2015   of the share-settled restricted stock/units and changes during   2015  . 

The table below presents the status at   December 31, 2015   of the cash-settled RSUs granted under the KASP and changes during   2015  . 

At   December 31, 2015  , there was an estimated   $1.2 billion   of total unrecognized compensation cost related to certain share-based compensation awards that is expected to be recognized over a period of up to   four   years, with a weighted-average period of   1.7 years  . The total fair value of restricted stock vested in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $145 million  ,   $704 million   and   $906 million  , respectively. In   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , the amount of cash paid to settle equity-based awards for all equity compensation plans was   $3.0 billion  ,   $2.7 billion   and   $1.7 billion  , respectively. 
  Stock Options 
  The table below presents the status of all option plans at   December 31, 2015   and changes during   2015  .  

All options outstanding as of   December 31, 2015   were vested and exercisable with a weighted-average remaining contractual term of   1.1   years and have   no   aggregate intrinsic value. No options have been granted since 2008. 

NOTE 19   Income Taxes 
  The components of income tax expense for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   are presented in the table below. 

Total income tax expense does not reflect the tax effects of items that are included in accumulated OCI. For additional information, see   Note 14   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  . These tax effects resulted in an expense of   $616 million   in   2015   and   $3.4 billion   in   2014  , and a benefit of   $2.7 billion   in   2013  , recorded in accumulated OCI. In addition, total income tax expense does not reflect tax effects associated with the Corporation s employee stock plans which decreased common stock and additional paid-in capital   $44 million  ,   $35 million   and   $128 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 

Income tax expense for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   varied from the amount computed by applying the statutory income tax rate to income before income taxes. A reconciliation of the expected U.S. federal income tax expense, calculated by applying the federal statutory tax rate of   35 percent  , to the Corporation s actual income tax expense, and the effective tax rates for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   are presented in the table below. 

The reconciliation of the beginning unrecognized tax benefits (UTB) balance to the ending balance is presented in the table below. 

(1)   
    The sum per year of positions taken during prior years differs from the   $85 million  ,   $741 million   and   $255 million   in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense table due to temporary items, state items and jurisdictional offsets, as well as the inclusion of interest in the Reconciliation of Income Tax Expense table. 
       At   December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013  , the balance of the Corporation s UTBs which would, if recognized, affect the Corporation s effective tax rate was   $0.7 billion  ,   $0.7 billion   and   $2.5 billion  , respectively. Included in the UTB balance are some items the recognition of which would not affect the effective tax rate, such as the tax effect of certain temporary differences, the portion of gross state UTBs that would be offset by the tax benefit of the associated federal deduction and the portion of gross non-U.S. UTBs that would be offset by tax reductions in other jurisdictions. 
  The Corporation files income tax returns in more than   100   state and non-U.S. jurisdictions each year. The IRS and other tax authorities in countries and states in which the Corporation has significant business operations examine tax returns periodically (continuously in some jurisdictions). The Tax Examination Status table summarizes the status of significant examinations (U.S. federal unless otherwise noted) for the Corporation and various subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2015  . 

During   2015  , the Corporation and IRS Appeals arrived at final agreement on the audit of Bank of America Corporation for the 2010 through 2011 tax years. While subject to review by the Joint Committee on Taxation of the U.S. Congress, the Corporation expects this examination will be concluded early in 2016. 

It is reasonably possible that the UTB balance may decrease by as much as   $0.1 billion   during the next 12 months, since resolved items will be removed from the balance whether their resolution results in payment or recognition. 
  The Corporation recognized benefits of   $82 million   during   2015   and   $196 million   in   2014  , and an expense of   $127 million   in   2013   for interest and penalties, net-of-tax, in income tax expense. At   December 31, 2015 and 2014  , the Corporation s accrual for interest and penalties that related to income taxes, net of taxes and remittances, was   $288 million   and   $455 million  . 
  Significant components of the Corporation s net deferred tax assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are presented in the table below. 

The table below summarizes the deferred tax assets and related valuation allowances recognized for the net operating loss (NOL) and tax credit carryforwards at   December 31, 2015  . 

(1)   
    The U.K. net operating losses may be carried forward indefinitely. 
               (2)   
    The net operating losses and related valuation allowances for U.S. states before considering the benefit of federal deductions were   $1.4 billion   and   $623 million  . 
     n/a = not applicable 
  Management concluded that no valuation allowance was necessary to reduce the U.K. NOL carryforwards and U.S. NOL and general business credit carryforwards since estimated future taxable income will be sufficient to utilize these assets prior to their expiration. The majority of the Corporation s U.K. net deferred tax assets, which consist primarily of NOLs, are expected to be realized by certain subsidiaries over an extended number of years. Management s conclusion is supported by financial results and forecasts, the reorganization of certain business activities and the indefinite period to carry forward NOLs. However, significant changes to those estimates, such as changes that would be caused by a substantial and prolonged worsening of the condition of Europe s capital markets, or a change in applicable laws, could lead management to reassess its U.K. valuation allowance conclusions. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , U.S. federal income taxes had not been provided on   $18.0 billion   of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries that management has determined have been reinvested for an indefinite period of time. If the Corporation were to record a deferred tax liability associated with these undistributed earnings, the amount would be approximately   $5.0 billion   at   December 31, 2015  . 

NOTE 20   Fair Value Measurements 
  Under applicable accounting guidance, fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. The Corporation determines the fair values of its financial instruments   based on the fair value hierarchy established under applicable accounting guidance which requires an entity to maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value.   There are three levels of inputs used to measure fair value. The Corporation conducts a review of its fair value hierarchy classifications on a quarterly basis. Transfers into or out of fair value hierarchy classifications are made if the significant inputs used in the financial models measuring the fair values of the assets and liabilities became unobservable or observable, respectively, in the current marketplace. These transfers are considered to be effective as of the beginning of the quarter in which they occur. For more information regarding the fair value hierarchy and how the Corporation measures fair value, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . The Corporation accounts for certain financial instruments under the fair value option. For additional information, see   Note 21   Fair Value Option  . 
  Valuation Processes and Techniques 
  The Corporation has various processes and controls in place to ensure that fair value is reasonably estimated. A model validation policy governs the use and control of valuation models used to estimate fair value. This policy requires review and approval of models by personnel who are independent of the front office, and periodic reassessments of models to ensure that they are continuing to perform as designed. In addition, detailed reviews of trading gains and losses are conducted on a daily basis by personnel who are independent of the front office. A price verification group, which is also independent of the front office, utilizes available market information including executed trades, market prices and market-observable valuation model inputs to ensure that fair values are reasonably estimated. The Corporation performs due diligence procedures over third-party pricing service providers in order to support their use in the valuation process. Where market information is not available to support internal valuations, independent reviews of the valuations are performed and any material exposures are escalated through a management review process. 
  While the Corporation believes its valuation methods are appropriate and consistent with other market participants, the use of different methodologies or assumptions to determine the fair value of certain financial instruments could result in a different estimate of fair value at the reporting date. 
  During   2015  , there were no changes to the valuation techniques that had, or are expected to have, a material impact on the Corporation s consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
  Level 1, 2 and 3 Valuation Techniques 
  Financial instruments are considered Level 1 when the valuation is based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 financial instruments are valued using quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or models using inputs that are observable or  

can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. Financial instruments are considered Level 3 when their values are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or similar techniques, and at least one significant model assumption or input is unobservable and when determination of the fair value requires significant management judgment or estimation. 
  Trading Account Assets and Liabilities and Debt Securities 
  The fair values of trading account assets and liabilities are primarily based on actively traded markets where prices are based on either direct market quotes or observed transactions. The fair values of debt securities are generally based on quoted market prices or market prices for similar assets.   Liquidity is a significant factor in the determination of the fair values of trading account assets and liabilities   and debt securities.   Market price quotes may not be readily available for some positions, or positions within a market sector where trading activity has slowed significantly or ceased  . Some of these instruments are valued using a discounted cash flow model, which estimates the fair value of the securities using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate management s best estimate of current key assumptions such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment rates. Principal and interest cash flows are discounted using an observable discount rate for similar instruments with adjustments that management believes a market participant would consider in determining fair value for the specific security. Other instruments are valued using a net asset value approach which considers the value of the underlying securities. Underlying assets are valued using external pricing services, where available, or matrix pricing based on the vintages and ratings.   Situations of illiquidity generally are triggered by the market s perception of credit uncertainty regarding a single company or a specific market sector  .   In these instances, fair value is determined based on limited available market information and other factors, principally from reviewing the issuer s financial statements and changes in credit ratings made by one or more rating agencies. 
  Derivative Assets and Liabilities 
  The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities traded in the OTC market are determined using quantitative models that utilize multiple market inputs including interest rates, prices and indices to generate continuous yield or pricing curves and volatility factors to value the position. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services  . When third-party pricing services are used, the methods and assumptions are reviewed by the Corporation.   Estimation risk is greater for derivative asset and liability positions that are either option-based or have longer maturity dates where observable market inputs are less readily available, or are unobservable, in which case, quantitative-based extrapolations of rate, price or index scenarios are used in determining fair values.     The fair values of derivative assets and liabilities include adjustments for market liquidity, counterparty credit quality and other instrument-specific factors, where appropriate.     In addition, the Corporation incorporates within its fair value measurements of OTC derivatives a valuation adjustment to reflect the credit risk associated with the net position. Positions are netted by counterparty, and fair value for net long exposures is adjusted for counterparty credit risk while the fair value for net short exposures is adjusted for   the  

Corporation s   own credit risk. The Corporation also incorporates FVA within its fair value measurements to include funding costs on uncollateralized derivatives and derivatives where the Corporation is not permitted to use the collateral it receives. An estimate of severity of loss is also used in the determination of fair value, primarily based on market data. 
  Loans and Loan Commitments 
  The fair values of loans and loan commitments are based on market prices, where available, or discounted cash flow analyses using market-based credit spreads of comparable debt instruments or credit derivatives of the specific borrower or comparable borrowers. Results of discounted cash flow analyses may be adjusted, as appropriate, to reflect other market conditions or the perceived credit risk of the borrower. 
  Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  The fair values of MSRs are determined using models that rely on estimates of prepayment rates, the resultant weighted-average lives of the MSRs and the option-adjusted spread levels. For more information on MSRs, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  The fair values of LHFS are based on quoted market prices, where available, or are determined by discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates approximating the Corporation s current origination rates for similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk. The borrower-specific credit risk is embedded within the quoted market prices or is implied by considering loan performance when selecting comparables. 
  Private Equity Investments 
  Private equity investments consist of direct investments and fund investments which are initially valued at their transaction price. Thereafter, the fair value of direct investments is based on an assessment of each individual investment using methodologies that include publicly-traded comparables derived by multiplying a key performance metric (e.g., earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) of the portfolio company by the relevant valuation multiple observed for comparable companies, acquisition comparables, entry level multiples and discounted cash flow analyses, and are subject to appropriate discounts for lack of liquidity or marketability. After initial recognition, the fair value of fund investments is based on the Corporation s proportionate interest in the fund s capital as reported by the respective fund managers. 

Short-term Borrowings and Long-term Debt 
  The Corporation issues structured liabilities that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. The fair values of these structured liabilities are estimated using quantitative models for the combined derivative and debt portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable and, in some instances, unobservable inputs including security prices, interest rate yield curves, option volatility, currency, commodity or equity rates and correlations among these inputs. The Corporation also considers the impact of its own credit spreads in determining the discount rate used to value these liabilities. The credit spread is determined by reference to observable spreads in the secondary bond market. 
  Securities Financing Agreements 
  The fair values of certain reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements and securities borrowed transactions are determined using quantitative models, including discounted cash flow models that require the use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. 
  Deposits 
  The fair values of deposits are determined using quantitative models, including discounted cash flow models that require the use of multiple market inputs including interest rates and spreads to generate continuous yield or pricing curves, and volatility factors. The majority of market inputs are actively quoted and can be validated through external sources, including brokers, market transactions and third-party pricing services. The Corporation considers the impact of its own credit spreads in the valuation of these liabilities. The credit risk is determined by reference to observable credit spreads in the secondary cash market. 
  Asset-backed Secured Financings 
  The fair values of asset-backed secured financings are based on external broker bids, where available, or are determined by discounting estimated cash flows using interest rates approximating the Corporation s current origination rates for similar loans adjusted to reflect the inherent credit risk. 

Recurring Fair Value 
  Assets and liabilities carried at fair value on a recurring basis at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , including financial instruments which the Corporation accounts for under the fair value option, are summarized in the following tables. 

(1)   
    Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
               (2)   
    Includes   $14.8 billion   of government-sponsored enterprise obligations. 
               (3)   
    During   2015  ,   $6.6 billion   of derivative assets and   $6.7 billion   of derivative liabilities were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2 based on inputs used to measure fair value. Additionally,   $6.4 billion   of derivative assets and   $6.2 billion   of derivative liabilities were transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 due to additional information related to certain options. For further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities, see   Note 2   Derivatives  . 
               (4)   
    During   2015  , approximately   $327 million   of assets were transferred from Level 2 to Level 1 due to a restriction that was lifted for an equity investment. 

(1)   
    Amounts represent the impact of legally enforceable master netting agreements and also cash collateral held or placed with the same counterparties. 
               (2)   
    Includes   $17.2 billion   of government-sponsored enterprise obligations. 
               (3)   
    For further disaggregation of derivative assets and liabilities, see   Note 2   Derivatives  . 
               (4)   
    During   2014  , the Corporation reclassified certain assets and liabilities within its fair value hierarchy based on a review of its inputs used to measure fair value. Accordingly, approximately   $4.1 billion   of assets related to U.S. government and agency securities, non-U.S. government securities and equity derivatives, and   $570 million   of liabilities related to equity derivatives were transferred from Level 1 to Level 2. 

The following tables present a reconciliation of all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , including net realized and unrealized gains (losses) included in earnings and accumulated OCI. 

(1)   
    Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3. 
               (2)   
    Includes unrealized gains (losses) on AFS debt securities, foreign currency translation adjustments and the impact on structured liabilities of changes in the Corporation s credit spreads. For more information, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
               (3)   
    Net derivatives include derivative assets of   $5.1 billion   and derivative liabilities of   $5.6 billion  . 
               (4)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (5)   
    Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs retained following securitizations or whole-loan sales. 
               (6)   
    Other assets is primarily comprised of certain private equity investments. 
       Significant transfers into Level 3, primarily due to decreased price observability, during   2015   included: 
             
    $1.7 billion   of trading account assets 
                   
    $411 million   of federal funds purchased and securities loaned or sold under agreements to repurchase 
                
    $1.6 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers occur on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 

Significant transfers out of Level 3, primarily due to increased price observability unless otherwise noted, during   2015   included: 
             
    $851 million   of trading account assets, primarily the result of increased market liquidity 
                   
    $1.4 billion   of long-term debt 

(1)   
    Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3. 
               (2)   
    Net derivatives include derivative assets of   $6.9 billion   and derivative liabilities of   $7.8 billion  . 
               (3)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (4)   
    Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs retained following securitizations or whole-loan sales. 
               (5)   
    Other assets is primarily comprised of certain long-term fixed-rate margin loans that are accounted for under the fair value option and certain private equity investments. 
       Significant transfers into Level 3, primarily due to decreased price observability, during   2014   included: 
             
    $1.5 billion   of trading account assets 
                 
    $1.6 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers occur on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 

Significant transfers out of Level 3, primarily due to increased price observability unless otherwise noted, during   2014   included: 
             
    $4.4 billion   of trading account assets, primarily the result of increased market liquidity 
                
    $160 million   of net derivative assets 
                
    $1.2 billion   of AFS debt securities 
                 
    $1.1 billion   of long-term debt 

(1)   
    Assets (liabilities). For assets, increase (decrease) to Level 3 and for liabilities, (increase) decrease to Level 3. 
               (2)   
    Net derivatives include derivative assets of   $7.3 billion   and derivative liabilities of   $7.5 billion  . 
               (3)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
               (4)   
    Issuances represent loan originations and MSRs retained following securitizations or whole-loan sales. 
               (5)   
    Other assets is primarily comprised of certain long-term fixed-rate margin loans that are accounted for under the fair value option and certain private equity investments. 
       Significant transfers into Level 3, primarily due to decreased price observability, during   2013   included: 
             
    $982 million   of trading account assets 
                  
    $1.3 billion   of long-term debt. Transfers occur on a regular basis for these long-term debt instruments due to changes in the impact of unobservable inputs on the value of the embedded derivative in relation to the instrument as a whole. 

Significant transfers out of Level 3, primarily due to increased price observability unless otherwise noted, during   2013   included: 
             
    $1.6 billion   of trading account assets 
                
    $627 million   of net derivative assets 
                
    $269 million   of AFS debt securities, primarily due to increased market liquidity 
                
    $1.2 billion   of long-term debt 

The following tables summarize gains (losses) due to changes in fair value, including both realized and unrealized gains (losses), recorded in earnings for Level 3 assets and liabilities during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . These amounts include gains (losses) on loans, LHFS, loan commitments and structured liabilities that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

The table below summarizes changes in unrealized gains (losses) recorded in earnings during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   for Level 3 assets and liabilities that were still held at   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . These amounts include changes in fair value on loans, LHFS, loan commitments and structured liabilities that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

(1)   
    Mortgage banking income (loss) does not reflect the impact of Level 1 and Level 2 hedges on MSRs. 
               (2)   
    Amounts represent instruments that are accounted for under the fair value option. 

The following tables present information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation s material categories of Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . 

(1)   
    The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page   230  : Trading account assets   Corporate securities, trading loans and other of   $2.8 billion  , Trading account assets   Non-U.S. sovereign debt of   $521 million  , Trading account assets   Mortgage trading loans and ABS of   $1.9 billion  , AFS debt securities   Other taxable securities of   $757 million  , AFS debt securities   Tax-exempt securities of   $569 million  , Loans and leases of   $1.6 billion   and LHFS of   $787 million  . 
               (2)   
    Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes. 
               (3)   
    Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates. 
     CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate 
  CDR = Constant Default Rate 
  MMBtu = Million British thermal units 
  IR = Interest Rate 
  FX = Foreign Exchange 

(1)   
    The categories are aggregated based upon product type which differs from financial statement classification. The following is a reconciliation to the line items in the table on page   231  : Trading account assets   Corporate securities, trading loans and other of   $3.3 billion  , Trading account assets   Non-U.S. sovereign debt of   $574 million  , Trading account assets   Mortgage trading loans and ABS of   $2.1 billion  , AFS debt securities   Other taxable securities of   $1.7 billion  , AFS debt securities   Tax-exempt securities of   $599 million  , Loans and leases of   $2.0 billion   and LHFS of   $173 million  . 
               (2)   
    Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation and Black-Scholes. 
               (3)   
    Includes models such as Monte Carlo simulation, Black-Scholes and other methods that model the joint dynamics of interest, inflation and foreign exchange rates. 
     CPR = Constant Prepayment Rate 
  CDR = Constant Default Rate 
  EBITDA = Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization 
  MMBtu = Million British thermal units 
  IR = Interest Rate 
  FX = Foreign Exchange 
  n/a = not applicable 

In the tables above, instruments backed by residential and commercial real estate assets include RMBS, commercial mortgage-backed securities, whole loans and mortgage CDOs. Commercial loans, debt securities and other include corporate CLOs and CDOs, commercial loans and bonds, and securities backed by non-real estate assets. Structured liabilities primarily include equity-linked notes that are accounted for under the fair value option. 
  The Corporation uses multiple market approaches in valuing certain of its Level 3 financial instruments. For example, market comparables and discounted cash flows are used together. For a given product, such as corporate debt securities, market comparables may be used to estimate some of the unobservable inputs and then these inputs are incorporated into a discounted cash flow model. Therefore, the balances disclosed encompass both of these techniques. 
  The level of aggregation and diversity within the products disclosed in the tables result in certain ranges of inputs being wide and unevenly distributed across asset and liability categories.  
  For more information on the inputs and techniques used in the valuation of MSRs, see   Note 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights  . 
  Sensitivity of Fair Value Measurements to Changes in Unobservable Inputs 
  Loans and Securities 
  For instruments backed by residential real estate assets, commercial real estate assets and commercial loans, debt securities and other, a significant increase in market yields, default rates, loss severities or duration would result in a significantly lower fair value for long positions. Short positions would be impacted in a directionally opposite way. The impact of changes in prepayment speeds would have differing impacts depending on the seniority of the instrument and, in the case of CLOs, whether prepayments can be reinvested. 
  For auction rate securities, a significant increase in price would result in a significantly higher fair value. 

Structured Liabilities and Derivatives 
  For credit derivatives, a significant increase in market yield, including spreads to indices, upfront points (i.e., a single upfront payment made by a protection buyer at inception), credit spreads, default rates or loss severities would result in a significantly lower fair value for protection sellers and higher fair value for protection buyers. The impact of changes in prepayment speeds would have differing impacts depending on the seniority of the instrument and, in the case of CLOs, whether prepayments can be reinvested. 
  Structured credit derivatives, which include tranched portfolio CDS and derivatives with derivative product company (DPC) and monoline counterparties, are impacted by credit correlation, including default and wrong-way correlation. Default correlation is a parameter that describes the degree of dependence among credit default rates within a credit portfolio that underlies a credit derivative instrument. The sensitivity of this input on the fair value varies depending on the level of subordination of the tranche. For senior tranches that are net purchases of protection, a significant increase in default correlation would result in a significantly higher fair value. Net short protection positions would be impacted in a directionally opposite way. Wrong-way correlation is a parameter that describes the probability that as exposure to a counterparty increases, the credit quality of the counterparty decreases. A significantly higher degree of wrong-way correlation between a DPC counterparty and underlying derivative exposure would result in a significantly lower fair value. 
  For equity derivatives, commodity derivatives, interest rate derivatives and structured liabilities, a significant change in long-dated rates and volatilities and correlation inputs (e.g., the degree of correlation between an equity security and an index, between two different commodities, between two different interest rates, or between interest rates and foreign exchange rates) would result in a significant impact to the fair value; however, the magnitude and direction of the impact depends on whether the Corporation is long or short the exposure. 

Nonrecurring Fair Value 
  The Corporation holds certain assets that are measured at fair value, but only in certain situations (e.g., impairment) and these measurements are referred to herein as nonrecurring. The amounts below represent assets still held as of the reporting date for which a nonrecurring fair value adjustment was recorded during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

(2)   
    Amounts are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and represent the carrying value of foreclosed properties that were written down subsequent to their initial classification as foreclosed properties. Losses on foreclosed properties include losses taken during the first   90   days after transfer of a loan to foreclosed properties. 
               (3)   
    Excludes   $1.4 billion   and   $1.1 billion   of properties acquired upon foreclosure of certain government-guaranteed loans (principally FHA-insured loans) as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 
     The table below presents information about significant unobservable inputs related to the Corporation s nonrecurring Level 3 financial assets and liabilities at   December 31, 2015 and 2014  . Instruments backed by residential real estate assets represent residential mortgages where the loan has been written down to the fair value of the underlying collateral. 

Quantitative Information about Nonrecurring Level 3 Fair Value Measurements 

December 31, 2015 
      (Dollars in millions) 

Inputs 
      Financial Instrument 
    Fair Value 
    Valuation  
  Technique 
    Significant Unobservable  
  Inputs 
    Ranges of  
  Inputs 
    Weighted Average 
      Loans and leases backed by residential real estate assets 
    $ 
    2,739 
      
    Market comparables 
    OREO discount 
    7% to 55% 
    20 
    % 

Cost to sell 
    8% to 45% 
    10 
    % 

NOTE 21   Fair Value Option 
  Loans and Loan Commitments 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain commercial loans and loan commitments that exceed the Corporation s single name credit risk concentration guidelines under the fair value option. Lending commitments, both funded and unfunded, are actively managed and monitored and, as appropriate, credit risk for these lending relationships may be mitigated through the use of credit derivatives, with the Corporation s public side credit view and market perspectives determining the size and timing of the hedging activity. These credit derivatives do not meet the requirements for designation as accounting hedges and therefore are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss). Electing the fair value option allows the Corporation to carry these loans and loan commitments at fair value, which is more consistent with management s view of the underlying economics and the manner in which they are managed. In addition, election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the credit derivatives at fair value. The Corporation also elected the fair value option for certain loans held in consolidated VIEs.  
  Loans Held-for-sale 
  The Corporation elects to account for residential mortgage LHFS, commercial mortgage LHFS and certain other LHFS under the fair value option with interest income on these LHFS recorded in other interest income. These loans are actively managed and monitored and, as appropriate, certain market risks of the loans may be mitigated through the use of derivatives. The Corporation has elected not to designate the derivatives as qualifying accounting hedges and therefore they are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in other income (loss). The changes in fair value of the loans are largely offset by changes in the fair value of the derivatives. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at the lower of cost or fair value and the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation has not elected to account for certain other LHFS under the fair value option primarily because these loans are floating-rate loans that are not hedged using derivative instruments.  
  Loans Reported as Trading Account Assets 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain loans that are held for the purpose of trading and are risk-managed on a fair value basis under the fair value option. 

Other Assets 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain private equity investments that are not in an investment company under the fair value option as this measurement basis is consistent with applicable accounting guidance for similar investments that are in an investment company. The Corporation also elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate margin loans that are hedged with derivatives under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the derivatives at fair value. 
  Securities Financing Agreements 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain securities financing agreements, including resale and repurchase agreements, under the fair value option based on the tenor of the agreements, which reflects the magnitude of the interest rate risk. The majority of securities financing agreements collateralized by U.S. government securities are not accounted for under the fair value option as these contracts are generally short-dated and therefore the interest rate risk is not significant. 
  Long-term Deposits 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term fixed-rate and rate-linked deposits that are hedged with derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the financial instruments at historical cost and the derivatives at fair value. The Corporation has not elected to carry other long-term deposits at fair value because they were not hedged using derivatives. 
  Short-term Borrowings 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain short-term borrowings, primarily short-term structured liabilities, under the fair value option because this debt is risk-managed on a fair value basis. 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain asset-backed secured financings, which are also classified in short-term borrowings, under the fair value option. Election of the fair value option allows the Corporation to reduce the accounting volatility that would otherwise result from the asymmetry created by accounting for the asset-backed secured financings at historical cost and the corresponding mortgage LHFS securing these financings at fair value. 
  Long-term Debt 
  The Corporation elects to account for certain long-term debt, primarily structured liabilities, under the fair value option. This long-term debt is either risk-managed on a fair value basis or the related hedges do not qualify for hedge accounting. 

The table below provides information about the fair value carrying amount and the contractual principal outstanding of assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

(1)   
    A significant portion of the loans reported as trading account assets are distressed loans which trade and were purchased at a deep discount to par, and the remainder are loans with a fair value near contractual principal outstanding. 
      n/a = not applicable 

The following tables provide information about where changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities accounted for under the fair value option are included in the Consolidated Statement of Income for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 

(1)    
    The gains (losses) in trading account profits (losses) are primarily offset by gains (losses) on trading liabilities that hedge these assets. 
               (2)   
    Includes the value of IRLCs on funded loans, including those sold during the period. 
               (3)   
    The majority of the net gains (losses) in trading account profits relate to the embedded derivative in structured liabilities and are offset by gains (losses) on derivatives and securities that hedge these liabilities. In connection with the implementation of new accounting guidance relating to DVA on structured liabilities accounted for at fair value under the fair value option, unrealized DVA gains (losses) in 2015 are recorded in accumulated OCI while realized gains (losses) are recorded in other income (loss); for years prior to 2015, the realized and unrealized gains (losses) are reflected in other income (loss). For more information on the implementation of new accounting guidance, see   Note 1   Summary of Significant Accounting Principles  . 
               (4)   
    For the cumulative impact of changes in the Corporation s credit spreads and the amount recognized in OCI, see   Note 14   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  . For more information on how the Corporation s own credit spread is determined, see   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements  .  

NOTE 22   Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  Financial instruments are classified within the fair value hierarchy using the methodologies described in   Note 20   Fair Value Measurements  . The following disclosures include financial instruments where only a portion of the ending balance at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   was carried at fair value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  Short-term Financial Instruments 
  The carrying value of short-term financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents, time deposits placed and other short-term investments, federal funds sold and purchased, certain resale and repurchase agreements, customer and other receivables, customer payables (within accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet), and short-term borrowings approximates the fair value of these instruments. These financial instruments generally expose the Corporation to limited credit risk and have no stated maturities or have short-term maturities and carry interest rates that approximate market. The Corporation elected to account for certain resale and repurchase agreements under the fair value option. 
  Under the fair value hierarchy, cash and cash equivalents are classified as Level 1. Time deposits placed and other short-term investments, such as U.S. government securities and short-term commercial paper, are classified as Level 1 and Level 2. Federal funds sold and purchased are classified as Level 2. Resale and repurchase agreements are classified as Level 2 because they are generally short-dated and/or variable-rate instruments collateralized by U.S. government or agency securities. Customer and other receivables primarily consist of margin loans, servicing advances and other accounts receivable and are classified as Level 2 and Level 3. Customer payables and short-term borrowings are classified as Level 2. 
  Held-to-maturity Debt Securities 
  HTM debt securities, which consist primarily of U.S. agency debt securities, are classified as Level 2 using the same methodologies as AFS U.S. agency debt securities. For more information on HTM debt securities, see   Note 3   Securities  . 
  Loans 
  The fair values for commercial and consumer loans are generally determined by discounting both principal and interest cash flows expected to be collected using a discount rate for similar instruments with adjustments that the Corporation believes a market participant would consider in determining fair value. The Corporation estimates the cash flows expected to be collected using internal credit risk, interest rate and prepayment risk models that incorporate the Corporation s best estimate of current key assumptions, such as default rates, loss severity and prepayment speeds for the life of the loan. The carrying value of loans is presented net of the applicable allowance for loan losses and excludes leases. The Corporation accounts for certain commercial loans and residential mortgage loans under the fair value option. 
  Deposits 
  The fair value for certain deposits with stated maturities was determined by discounting contractual cash flows using current market rates for instruments with similar maturities. The carrying  

value of non-U.S. time deposits approximates fair value. For deposits with no stated maturities, the carrying value was considered to approximate fair value and does not take into account the significant value of the cost advantage and stability of the Corporation s long-term relationships with depositors. The Corporation accounts for certain long-term fixed-rate deposits under the fair value option. 
  Long-term Debt 
  The Corporation uses quoted market prices, when available, to estimate fair value for its long-term debt. When quoted market prices are not available, fair value is estimated based on current market interest rates and credit spreads for debt with similar terms and maturities. The Corporation accounts for certain structured liabilities under the fair value option. 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments 
  The carrying values and fair values by fair value hierarchy of certain financial instruments where only a portion of the ending balance was carried at fair value at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are presented in the table below. 

Commercial Unfunded Lending Commitments 
  Fair values were generally determined using a discounted cash flow valuation approach which is applied using market-based CDS or internally developed benchmark credit curves. The Corporation accounts for certain loan commitments under the fair value option. 
  The carrying values and fair values of the Corporation s commercial unfunded lending commitments were   $1.3 billion   and   $6.3 billion   at   December 31, 2015  , and   $932 million   and   $3.8 billion   at   December 31, 2014  . Commercial unfunded lending commitments are primarily classified as Level 3. The carrying value of these commitments is classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities. 
  The Corporation does not estimate the fair values of consumer unfunded lending commitments because, in many instances, the Corporation can reduce or cancel these commitments by providing notice to the borrower. For more information on commitments, see   Note 12   Commitments and Contingencies  . 

NOTE 23   Mortgage Servicing Rights 
  The Corporation accounts for consumer MSRs at fair value with changes in fair value primarily recorded in mortgage banking income in the Consolidated Statement of Income. The Corporation manages the risk in these MSRs with derivatives such as options and interest rate swaps, which are not designated as accounting hedges, as well as securities including MBS and U.S. Treasury securities. The securities used to manage the risk in the MSRs are classified in other assets with changes in the fair value of the securities and the related interest income recorded in mortgage banking income. 
  The table below presents activity for residential mortgage and home equity MSRs for   2015   and   2014  .  

(1)   
    Represents the net change in fair value of the MSR asset due to the recognition of modeled cash flows. 
               (2)   
    These amounts reflect the changes in modeled MSR fair value primarily due to observed changes in interest rates, volatility, spreads and the shape of the forward swap curve and periodic adjustments to valuation based on third-party discovery. 
               (3)   
    These amounts reflect periodic adjustments to the valuation model to reflect changes in the modeled relationship between inputs and their impact on projected cash flows as well as changes in certain cash flow assumptions such as cost to service and ancillary income per loan. 
               (4)   
    These amounts include the impact of periodic recalibrations of the model to reflect changes in the relationship between market interest rate spreads and projected cash flows. Also included is a decrease of   $127 million   for 2014 due to changes in option-adjusted spread rate assumptions. 
      The Corporation primarily uses an option-adjusted spread (OAS) valuation approach which factors in prepayment risk to determine the fair value of MSRs. This approach consists of projecting servicing cash flows under multiple interest rate scenarios and discounting these cash flows using risk-adjusted discount rates. In addition to updating the valuation model for interest, discount and prepayment rates, periodic adjustments are made to recalibrate the valuation model for factors used to project cash flows. The changes to the factors capture the effect of variances related to actual versus estimated servicing proceeds. 

Significant economic assumptions in estimating the fair value of MSRs at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   are presented below. The change in fair value as a result of changes in OAS rates is included within  Model and other cash flow assumption changes  in the Rollforward of Mortgage Servicing Rights table. The weighted-average life is not an input in the valuation model but is a product of both changes in market rates of interest and changes in model and other cash flow assumptions. The weighted-average life represents the average period of time that the MSRs  cash flows are expected to be received. Absent other changes, an increase (decrease) to the weighted-average life would generally result in an increase (decrease) in the fair value of the MSRs. 

The table below presents the sensitivity of the weighted-average lives and fair value of MSRs to changes in modeled assumptions. These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the amounts indicate, changes in fair value based on variations in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of MSRs that continue to be held by the Corporation is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. The below sensitivities do not reflect any hedge strategies that may be undertaken to mitigate such risk. 

NOTE 24     Business Segment Information 
  The Corporation reports its results of operations through the following   five   business segments:   Consumer Banking  ,   Global Wealth   Investment Management (GWIM)  ,   Global Banking  ,   Global Markets   and   Legacy Assets   Servicing (LAS)  , with the remaining operations recorded in   All Other  . 
  Consumer Banking 
  Consumer Banking   offers a diversified range of credit, banking and investment products and services to consumers and small businesses  .   Consumer Banking   product offerings   include traditional savings accounts, money market savings accounts, CDs and IRAs, noninterest- and interest-bearing checking accounts,     investment accounts and products  , as well as   credit and debit cards, residential mortgages and home equity loans, and direct and indirect loans   to   consumers and small businesses   in the U.S. Customers and clients   have access to a franchise network that stretches coast to coast through     33     states and the District of Columbia  .   The franchise network includes approximately     4,700     financial centers,     16,000     ATMs, nationwide call centers, and online and mobile platforms  . 
  Global Wealth   Investment Management 
  GWIM     provides a high-touch client experience through a network of financial advisors focused on clients with over $250,000 in total investable assets  , including   tailored solutions to meet   clients  needs through a full set of investment management, brokerage, banking and retirement products.     GWIM   also   provides comprehensive wealth management solutions targeted to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, as well as customized solutions to meet clients  wealth structuring, investment management, trust and banking needs, including specialty asset management services. 
  Global Banking 
  Global Banking     provides a wide range of lending-related products and services, integrated working capital management and treasury solutions to clients, and underwriting and advisory services through   the Corporation s   network of offices and client relationship teams  .   Global Banking s     lending products and services include commercial loans, leases, commitment facilities, trade finance, real estate lending and asset-based lending  .   Global Banking s   treasury solutions business includes treasury management, foreign exchange and short-term investing options  .   Global Banking   also provides investment banking products to clients such as   debt and equity underwriting and distribution, and merger-related and other advisory services  . The   economics of most investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between     Global Banking   and   Global Markets     based on the activities performed by each segment  .   Global Banking   clients   generally include middle-market companies, commercial real estate firms,  

auto dealerships  ,   not-for-profit companies  ,   large global corporations, financial institutions  ,   leasing clients  , and   mid-sized U.S.-based businesses requiring customized and integrated financial advice and solutions  . 
  Global Markets 
  Global Markets     offers sales and trading services, including research, to institutional clients across fixed-income, credit, currency, commodity and equity businesses  .   Global Markets     product coverage includes securities and derivative products in both the primary and secondary markets  .   Global Markets   provides market-making, financing, securities clearing, settlement and custody services globally to     institutional investor clients in support of their investing and trading activities.     Global Markets   also works with   commercial and corporate clients to provide risk management products using interest rate, equity, credit, currency and commodity derivatives, foreign exchange, fixed-income and mortgage-related products  . As a result of market-making activities in these products,   Global Markets   may be required to manage risk in a broad range of financial products including government securities, equity and equity-linked securities, high-grade and high-yield corporate debt securities  , syndicated loans, MBS, commodities and ABS. In addition, the   economics of most investment banking and underwriting activities are shared primarily between     Global Markets   and   Global Banking     based on the activities performed by each segment  . 
  Legacy Assets   Servicing 
  LAS   is responsible for   mortgage servicing activities related to residential first mortgage and home equity loans serviced for others and loans held by the Corporation, including loans that have been designated as the     LAS   Portfolios, and manages   certain legacy exposures related to mortgage origination, sales and servicing activities (e.g., litigation, representations and warranties).     LAS   also includes   the results of MSR activities, including net hedge results  . Home equity loans are held on the balance sheet of   LAS  , and residential mortgage loans are included as part of   All Other  .   The financial results of the on-balance sheet loans are reported in the segment that owns the loans or in     All Other  . 
  All Other 
  All Other     consists of ALM activities  ,   equity investments, the international consumer card business, liquidating businesses, residual expense allocations and other. ALM activities encompass certain residential mortgages, debt securities, interest rate and foreign currency risk management activities including the residual net interest income allocation, the impact of certain allocation methodologies and accounting hedge ineffectiveness  . The results of certain ALM activities are allocated to the business segments. Additionally,   certain residential mortgage loans that are managed by     LAS   are held in   All Other  .  

Basis of Presentation 
  The management accounting and reporting process derives segment and business results by utilizing allocation methodologies for revenue and expense. The net income derived for the businesses is dependent upon revenue and cost allocations using an activity-based costing model, funds transfer pricing, and other methodologies and assumptions management believes are appropriate to reflect the results of the business. 
  Total revenue, net of interest expense, includes net interest income on an FTE basis and noninterest income. The adjustment of net interest income to an FTE basis results in a corresponding increase in income tax expense. The segment results also reflect certain revenue and expense methodologies that are utilized to determine net income. The net interest income of the businesses includes the results of a funds transfer pricing process that matches assets and liabilities with similar interest rate sensitivity and maturity characteristics. In segments where the total of liabilities and equity exceeds assets, which are generally deposit-taking segments, the Corporation allocates assets to match liabilities. Net interest income of the business segments also includes an allocation of net interest income generated by certain of the Corporation s ALM activities. Further, net interest income on an FTE basis includes market-related adjustments, which are adjustments to net interest income to reflect the impact of changes in long-term interest rates on the estimated lives of mortgage-related debt securities thereby impacting premium amortization. Also included in market-related adjustments is hedge ineffectiveness that impacts net interest income.  

In addition, the business segments are impacted by the migration of customers and clients and their deposit, loan and brokerage balances between businesses. Subsequent to the date of migration, the associated net interest income, noninterest income and noninterest expense are recorded in the business to which the customers or clients migrated. 
  The Corporation s ALM activities include an overall interest rate risk management strategy that incorporates the use of various derivatives and cash instruments to manage fluctuations in earnings and capital that are caused by interest rate volatility. The Corporation s goal is to manage interest rate sensitivity so that movements in interest rates do not significantly adversely affect earnings and capital. The results of a majority of the Corporation s ALM activities are allocated to the business segments and fluctuate based on the performance of the ALM activities. ALM activities include external product pricing decisions including deposit pricing strategies, the effects of the Corporation s internal funds transfer pricing process and the net effects of other ALM activities. 
  Certain expenses not directly attributable to a specific business segment are allocated to the segments. The most significant of these expenses include data and item processing costs and certain centralized or shared functions. Data processing costs are allocated to the segments based on equipment usage. Item processing costs are allocated to the segments based on the volume of items processed for each segment. The costs of certain other centralized or shared functions are allocated based on methodologies that reflect utilization. 

The table below presents net income (loss) and the components thereto (with net interest income on an FTE basis) for   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , and total assets at   December 31, 2015 and 2014   for each business segment, as well as   All Other  . 

(1)   
    There were no material intersegment revenues. 

The table below presents a reconciliation of the   five   business segments  total revenue, net of interest expense, on an FTE basis, and net income to the Consolidated Statement of Income, and total assets to the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The adjustments presented in the table below include consolidated income, expense and asset amounts not specifically allocated to individual business segments. 

NOTE 25   Parent Company Information 
  The following tables present the Parent Company-only financial information. This financial information is presented in accordance with bank regulatory reporting requirements. 

NOTE 26   Performance by Geographical Area 
  Since the Corporation s operations are highly integrated, certain asset, liability, income and expense amounts must be allocated to arrive at total assets, total revenue, net of interest expense, income before income taxes and net income (loss) by geographic area. The Corporation identifies its geographic performance based on the business unit structure used to manage the capital or expense deployed in the region as applicable. This requires certain judgments related to the allocation of revenue so that revenue can be appropriately matched with the related capital or expense deployed in the region. 

(1)   
    Total assets include long-lived assets, which are primarily located in the U.S. 
               (2)   
    There were no material intercompany revenues between geographic regions for any of the periods presented. 
               (3)   
    Substantially reflects the U.S. 

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  None 
    Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  As of the end of the period covered by this report and pursuant to Rule 13a-15 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), Bank of America s management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness and design of our disclosure controls and procedures (as that term is defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, Bank of America s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Bank of America s disclosure controls and procedures were effective, as of the end of the period covered by this report, in recording, processing, summarizing and reporting information required to be disclosed by the Corporation in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms. 

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  The   Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   is set forth on page   130   and incorporated herein by reference. The   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   with respect to the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting is set forth on page   131   and incorporated herein by reference. 
  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  There have been no changes in our internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended   December 31, 2015  , that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  Item 9B.  Other Information 
  None  

Part III 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
      Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  Executive Officers of The Registrant 
  The name, age, position and office, and business experience during the last five years of our current executive officers are: 
  Dean C. Athanasia (49)     President, Preferred   Small Business Banking, and Co-Head - Consumer Banking,   since September 2014; Preferred and Small Business Banking Executive from April 2011 to September 2014; and Head of Global Banking and Merrill Edge from April 2009 to April 2011. 
  Catherine P. Bessant (55) Chief Operations and Technology Officer   since July 2015; and Global Technology   Operations Executive from January 2010 to July 2015. 
  Paul M. Donofrio (55) Chief Financial Officer   since August 2015; strategic finance Executive from April 2015 to August 2015; Global Head of Corporate Credit and Transaction Banking from January 2012 to April 2015; Co-Head of Global Corporate and Investment Banking from April 2011 to January 2012; and Global Head of Corporate Banking from February 2010 to April 2011. 
  Geoffrey S. Greener (51) Chief Risk Officer     since April 2014; Head of Enterprise Capital Management from April 2011 to April 2014; Head of Global Markets Portfolio Management, Chair of Global Markets Capital Committee and Global Markets Regulatory Reform Executive Committee from April 2010 to March 2011; 
  Terrence P. Laughlin (61) Vice Chairman, Global Wealth   Investment Management   since January 2016; Vice Chairman from July 2015 to January 2016; President of Strategic Initiatives from April 2014 to July 2015; Chief Risk Officer from August 2011 to April 2014; and Legacy Asset Servicing Executive from February 2011 to August 2011. 
  David G. Leitch (55) Global General Counsel   since January 2016: and General Counsel of Ford Motor Company from April 2005 to December 2015.  
  Thomas K. Montag (59) Chief Operating Officer     since September 2014; Co-chief Operating Officer     from     September     2011     to September 2014; and President, Global Banking and Markets from August 2009 to September 2011. 

Brian T. Moynihan (56) Chairman of the Board     since October 2014 and President and Chief Executive Officer and member of the Board of Directors since January 2010. 
  Thong M. Nguyen (57)     President, Retail Banking, and Co-Head   Consumer Banking   since September 2014; Retail Banking Executive from April 2014 to September 2014; Retail Strategy, Operations   Digital Banking Executive from September 2012 to April 2014; Global Corporate Strategy, Planning and Development Executive from November 2011 to September 2012; and West Division Executive for U.S. Trust from February 2010 to November 2011;  
  Andrea B. Smith (48) Chief Administrative Officer   since July 2015; and Global Head of Human Resources from January 2010 to July 2015.  
  Information included under the following captions in the Corporation s proxy statement relating to its   2016   annual meeting of stockholders, scheduled to be held on April 27, 2016 (the   2016   Proxy Statement), is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Proposal 1: Electing Directors   Our Director Nominees;  
                
     Corporate Governance   Additional Information;"  
                
       Board Meetings, Committee Membership and Attendance;  and  
                
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.   
       
    Item 11.  Executive Compensation 
  Information included under the following captions in the   2016   Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Compensation Discussion and Analysis;  
                
     Compensation and Benefits Committee Report;  
                
     Executive Compensation;  
                
     Corporate Governance;  and  
                
     Director Compensation.  

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  Information included under the following caption in the   2016   Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Stock Ownership of Directors, Executive Officers, and Certain Beneficial Owners.  
     The table below presents information on equity compensation plans at   December 31, 2015  : 

(1)   
    This table does not include outstanding options to purchase 8,195,107 shares of the Corporation s common stock that were assumed by the Corporation in connection with prior acquisitions, under whose plans the options were originally granted. The weighted-average exercise price of these assumed options was $56.64 at   December 31, 2015  . Also, at   December 31, 2015  , there were 1,631,437 outstanding restricted stock units and 1,066,492 vested restricted stock units and stock option gain deferrals associated with these plans. 
               (2)   
    Does not reflect restricted stock units included in the first column, which do not have an exercise price. 
               (3)   
    Plans approved by shareholders includes 471,931,012 shares of common stock available for future issuance under the Bank of America Corporation Key Employee Equity Plan and 264,307 shares of common stock which are available for future issuance under the Corporations Director  Stock Plan. 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  Information included under the following captions in the   2016   Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Related Person and Certain Other Transactions;  and 
                
     Corporate Governance   Director Independence.  

Item 14.      Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
  Information included under the following caption in the   2016   Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference: 
             
     Proposal 3: Ratifying the Appointment of our Registered  
     Independent Public Accounting Firm for 2016.  

Part IV 
  Bank of America Corporation and Subsidiaries 
    Item 15.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules       
  The following documents are filed as part of this report: 
  (1) Financial Statements: 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Consolidated Balance Sheet at   December 31, 2015   and   2014    
  Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders  Equity for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013    
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  (2) Schedules: 
  None 
  (3) The exhibits filed as part of this report and exhibits incorporated herein by reference to other documents are listed in the Index to Exhibits to this Annual Report on Form 10-K (pages E-1 through E-4). 
  With the exception of the information expressly incorporated herein by reference, the   2016   Proxy Statement shall not be deemed filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

Signatures 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
  Date:   February 24, 2016    
                 Bank of America Corporation 

By:  
    /s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
        
    Brian T. Moynihan 
        
    Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
                           
    Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

/s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
      
    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Brian T. Moynihan 

*/s/ Paul M. Donofrio 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Paul M. Donofrio 

*/s/ Rudolf A. Bless 
      
    Chief Accounting Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Rudolf A. Bless 

*/s/ Sharon L. Allen 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Sharon L. Allen 

*/s/ Susan S. Bies 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Susan S. Bies 

*/s/ Jack O. Bovender, Jr. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Jack O. Bovender, Jr. 

*/s/ Frank P. Bramble, Sr. 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Frank P. Bramble, Sr. 

*/s/ Pierre de Weck 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Pierre de Weck 

*/s/ Arnold W. Donald 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Arnold W. Donald 

*/s/ Charles K. Gifford 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Charles K. Gifford 

*/s/ Linda P. Hudson 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Linda P. Hudson 

Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 

*/s/ Monica C. Lozano 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Monica C. Lozano 

*/s/ Thomas J. May 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Thomas J. May 

*/s/ Lionel L. Nowell, III 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    Lionel L. Nowell, III 

*/s/ R. David Yost 
      
    Director 
      
    February 24, 2016 
        
    R. David Yost 

*By 
    /s/ Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 

Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
  Attorney-in-Fact 

Index to Exhibits 

Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 
      (g) 
      
    Bank of America Corporation Key Associate Stock Plan, as amended and restated effective April 28, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on May 3, 2010* and the following forms of award agreement under the plan: 

Form of Stock Option Award Agreement (February 2007 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of registrant s 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on February 28, 2008;* 
   Form of Stock Option Award Agreement for non-executives (February 2008 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2009 10-K;* 
   Form of Performance Contingent Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on January 31, 2011;* 
   Form of Performance Contingent Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2011 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2010 10-K;* 
   Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2012 and subsequent grants), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of registrant s 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on February 25, 2012 (the  2011 10-K *  
   Form of Performance Contingent Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2012 grant), incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) of the 2011 10-K;* 
   Form of Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2013 and subsequent grants), including grants to named executive officers, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6523) for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2013 filed on May 5, 2013 (the  1Q 2013 10-Q * and 
   Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2013 and subsequent grants), including grants to named executive officers incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) of the 1Q 2013 10-Q.* and 
   Form of Performance Restricted Stock Units Award Agreement (February 2014 and subsequent grants), including grants to named executive officers, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) of registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q (File No. 1-6523) for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2014 filed on May 1, 2014.* 

Bank of America Corporation Key Employee Equity Plan (formerly known as the Key Associate Stock Plan), as amended and restated effective May 6, 2015, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on May 7, 2015.* 
      (h) 
      
    Amendment to various plans in connection with FleetBoston Financial Corporation merger, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) of registrant s 2003 Annual Report on Form 10-K (File No. 1-6523) filed on March 1, 2004.* 
      (i) 
      
    FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as amended by Amendment One thereto effective January 1, 1997, Amendment Two thereto effective October 15, 1997, Amendment Three thereto effective July 1, 1998, Amendment Four thereto effective August 15, 1999, Amendment Five thereto effective January 1, 2000, Amendment Six thereto effective October 10, 2001, Amendment Seven thereto effective February 19, 2002, Amendment Eight thereto effective October 15, 2002, Amendment Nine thereto effective January 1, 2003, Amendment Ten thereto effective October 21, 2003, and Amendment Eleven thereto effective December 31, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(r) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (j) 
      
    FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plan No. 2, as amended by Amendment One thereto effective February 1, 1999, Amendment Two thereto effective January 1, 2000, Amendment Three thereto effective January 1, 2002, Amendment Four thereto effective October 15, 2002, Amendment Five thereto effective January 1, 2003, and Amendment Six thereto effective December 16, 2003, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(u) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (k) 
      
    FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan, as amended by Amendment One thereto effective January 1, 2000, Amendment Two thereto effective January 1, 2002, Amendment Three thereto effective January 1, 2003, Amendment Four thereto effective January 1, 2003, and Amendment Five thereto effective December 31, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(v) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (l) 
      
    Retirement Income Assurance Plan for Legacy Fleet, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2009, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(p) of the 2009 10-K; Amendment thereto dated December 16, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) of the 2010 10-K; and Amendment thereto dated June 29, 2012, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(l) of the 2012 10-K.* 
      (m) 
      
    Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Deferred Compensation Plans No. 1 and 2, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (n) 
      
    Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Executive Supplemental Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(y) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (o) 
      
    Trust Agreement for the FleetBoston Retirement Income Assurance Plan and the FleetBoston Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(z) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (p) 
      
    FleetBoston Directors Deferred Compensation and Stock Unit Plan, as amended by an amendment thereto effective as of July 1, 2000, a Second Amendment thereto effective as of January 1, 2003, a Third Amendment thereto dated April 14, 2003, and a Fourth Amendment thereto effective January 1, 2004, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(aa) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (q) 
      
    BankBoston Corporation and its Subsidiaries Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by a First Amendment thereto, a Second Amendment thereto, a Third Amendment thereto, an Instrument thereto (providing for the cessation of accruals effective December 31, 2000) and an Amendment thereto dated December 24, 2001, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(cc) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (r) 
      
    BankBoston, N.A. Bonus Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, as amended by a First Amendment thereto, a Second Amendment thereto, a Third Amendment thereto and a Fourth Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(dd) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (s) 
      
    Description of BankBoston Supplemental Life Insurance Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ee) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (t) 
      
    BankBoston, N.A. Excess Benefit Supplemental Employee Retirement Plan, as amended by a First Amendment thereto, a Second Amendment thereto, a Third Amendment thereto (assumed by FleetBoston on October 1, 1999) and an Instrument thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ff) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (u) 
      
    Description of BankBoston Supplemental Long-Term Disability Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(gg) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (v) 
      
    BankBoston Director Stock Award Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(hh) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (w) 
      
    BankBoston Corporation Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by a First Amendment thereto and a Second Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ii) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (x) 
      
    BankBoston, N.A. Directors  Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended by a First Amendment thereto and a Second Amendment thereto, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(jj) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (y) 
      
    BankBoston 1997 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended by an amendment thereto dated as of October 16, 2001, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(kk) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (z) 
      
    Description of BankBoston Director Retirement Benefits Exchange Program, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(ll) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (aa) 
      
    Employment Agreement, dated as of March 14, 1999, between FleetBoston and Charles K. Gifford, as amended by an amendment thereto effective as of February 7, 2000, a Second Amendment thereto effective as of April 22, 2002, and a Third Amendment thereto effective as of October 1, 2002, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(mm) of the 2004 10-K.* 
      (bb) 
      
    Form of Change in Control Agreement entered into with Charles K. Gifford, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(nn) of the 2004 10-K.* 

Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 
      Exhibit 101.INS 
      
    XBRL Instance Document, filed herewith. 
      Exhibit 101.SCH 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document, filed herewith. 
      Exhibit 101.CAL 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document, filed herewith. 
      Exhibit 101.LAB 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document, filed herewith. 
      Exhibit 101.PRE 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document, filed herewith. 
      Exhibit 101.DEF 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definitions Linkbase Document, filed herewith. 

___________________________ 
            *   
    Exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or arrangement. 
               **   
    The registrant has received confidential treatment with respect to portions of this exhibit. Those portions have been omitted from this exhibit and filed separately with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. 

<EX-3.A>
 2
 bac-1231201510xkex3a.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 3(a) 
    
  AMENDED AND RESTATED  
  CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION  
  OF 
  BANKAMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  BankAmerica Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the 
    Corporation ), hereby certifies that (i) the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation was originally filed on July 31, 
  1998, (ii) the Corporation was originally incorporated under the name  NationsBank (DE) Corporation,  which name was changed to  NationsBank Corporation  on September 25, 1998 and to  BankAmerica Corporation  on September 30, 1998, (iii) this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been duly adopted in accordance with Sections 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, and (iv) the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: 
    
  1. The name of the Corporation is Bank of America Corporation. 
    
  2. The purposes for which the Corporation is organized are to engage in any lawful act or activity for which corporations may be organized and incorporated under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 
    
  3. The number of shares, par value $.01 per share, the Corporation is authorized to issue is Five Billion One 
  Hundred Million (5,100,000,000), divided into the following classes: 

The class of common ( Common Stock ) has unlimited voting rights and, after satisfaction of claims, if any, of the holders of preferred shares, is entitled to receive the net assets of the Corporation upon distribution. 
    
  The Board of Directors of the Corporation shall have full power and authority to establish one or more series within the class of preferred shares (the  Preferred Shares ), to define the designations, preferences, limitations and relative rights (including conversion rights) of shares within such class and to determine all variations between series. 
    
  The Board of Directors of the Corporation has 
  designated, established and authorized the following series of Preferred Shares: (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B. 
    
  A.    Designation. 
    
  The designation of this series is  7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B  (hereinafter referred to as the  Series B Preferred Stock ) and the number of shares constituting such series is Thirty-Five Thousand Forty-Five (35,045). Shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall have a stated value of $100.00 per share. 

B.    Dividends. 
    
  The holders of record of the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, out of any funds legally available for such purpose, cumulative cash dividends at an annual dividend rate per share of 7% of the stated value thereof, which amount is $7.00 per annum, per share, and no more. Such dividends shall be payable each calendar quarter at the rate of $1.75 per share on such dates as shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The date from which dividends on such shares shall be cumulative shall be the first day after said shares are issued. Accumulations of dividends shall not bear interest. No cash dividend shall be declared, paid or set apart for any shares of Common Stock unless all dividends on all shares of the Series B Preferred Stock at the time outstanding for all past dividend periods and for the then current dividend shall have been paid, or shall have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof, shall have been set apart. Subject to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph B, cash dividends or other cash distributions as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid upon the shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation from time to time out of funds legally available therefor, and the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such cash dividend or other such cash distribution so declared and paid or made on such shares of Common Stock. 

C.    Redemption. 
    
  From and after October 31, 1988, any holder may, by written request, call upon the Corporation to redeem all or any part of said holder's shares of said Series B Preferred Stock at a redemption price of $100.00 per share plus accumulated unpaid dividends to the date said request for redemption is received by the Corporation and no more (the  Redemption Price ). Any such request for redemption shall be accompanied by the certificates for which redemption is requested, duly endorsed or with appropriate stock power attached, in either case with signature guaranteed. Upon receipt by the Corporation of any such request for redemption from any holder of the Series B Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall forthwith redeem said stock at 
  the Redemption Price, provided that: (i) full cumulative dividends have been paid or declared and set apart for payment upon all shares of any series of preferred stock ranking superior to the Series B Preferred Stock as to dividends or other distributions (collectively the  Superior Stock  and (ii) the Corporation is not then in default or in arrears with respect to any sinking or analogous fund or call for tenders obligation or agreement for the purchase, redemption or retirement of any shares of Superior Stock. In the event that, upon receipt of a request for redemption, either or both of the conditions set forth in clauses (i) and 
  (ii) above are not met, the Corporation shall forthwith return said request to the submitting shareholder along with a statement that the Corporation is unable to honor such request and explanation of the reasons therefor. From and after the receipt by the Corporation of a request for redemption from any holder of said Series B Preferred Stock, which request may be honored consistent with the foregoing provisions, all rights of such holder in the Series B Preferred Stock for which redemption is requested shall cease and terminate, except only the right to receive the Redemption Price thereof, but without interest. 

D.    Liquidation Preference. 
    
  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, subject to the provisions of paragraph G and before any payment shall be made to the holders of the shares of Common Stock, the amount of $100.00 per share, plus accumulated dividends. After payment to the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock of the full amount as aforesaid, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets which shall be distributed ratably to the holders of the Common Stock. If, upon any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the assets available therefor are not sufficient to permit payments to the holders of Series B Preferred Stock of the full amount as aforesaid, then subject to the provisions of paragraph G, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock then outstanding shall share ratably in the distribution of assets in accordance with the sums which would be payable if such holders were to receive the full amounts as aforesaid. 

E.    Sinking Fund. 
    
  There shall be no sinking fund applicable to the shares of Series B Preferred Stock. 

F.    Conversion. 
    
  The shares of Series B Preferred Stock shall not be convertible into any shares of Common Stock or any other class of shares, nor exchanged for any shares of Common Stock or any other class of shares. 

G.    Superior Stock. 
  The Corporation may issue stock with preferences superior or equal to the shares of the Series B Preferred Stock without the consent of the holders thereof. 

H.    Voting Rights. 
    
  Each share of the Series B Preferred Stock shall be entitled to equal voting rights, share for share, with each share of the Common Stock. 
    
  (b) ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C. 
    
  The shares of the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C, of the Corporation shall be designated  ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C,  and the number of shares constituting such series shall be 3,000,000. The ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C, shall hereinafter be referred to as the  ESOP Preferred Stock.  

A.    Special Purpose Restricted Transfer Issue. 
    
  Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be issued only to a trustee acting on behalf of an employee stock ownership plan or other employee benefit plan of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation. In the event of any transfer of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to any person other than any such plan trustee or the Corporation, the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock so transferred, upon such transfer and without any further action by the Corporation or the holder, shall be automatically converted into shares of Common Stock on the terms otherwise provided for the conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock pursuant to paragraph E hereof and no such transferee shall have any of the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or special rights ascribed to shares of ESOP Preferred Stock hereunder but, rather, only the powers and rights pertaining to the Common Stock into which such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be so converted. Certificates representing shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be legended to reflect such restrictions on transfer. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph A, shares of ESOP Preferred Stock (i) may be converted into shares of Common Stock as provided by paragraph E hereof and the shares of Common Stock issued upon such conversion may be transferred by the holder thereof as permitted by law and (ii) shall be redeemable by the Corporation upon the terms and conditions provided by paragraphs F, G and H hereof. 

B.    Dividends and Distributions. 
    
  (1) Subject to the provisions for adjustment hereinafter set forth, the holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors out of funds legally available therefor, cash dividends ( Preferred Dividends ) in an amount equal to $3.30 per share per annum, and no more, payable semi-annually, one- half on the first day of January and one-half on the first day of July of each year (each a  Dividend Payment Date ) to holders of record at the start of business on such Dividend Payment Date. Preferred Dividends shall accrue on a daily basis whether or not the Corporation shall have earnings or surplus at the time, but Preferred Dividends on the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock for any period less than a full semi-annual period between Dividend Payment Dates shall be computed on the basis of a 360- day year of 30-day months. Accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends shall accumulate as of the Dividend Payment Date on which they first become payable, but no interest shall accrue on accumulated but unpaid Preferred Dividends. 
    
  (2) So long as any ESOP Preferred Stock shall be outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on any other series of stock ranking on a parity with the ESOP Preferred Stock as to dividends, unless there shall also be or have been declared and paid or set apart for payment on the ESOP Preferred Stock, like dividends for all dividend payment periods of the ESOP Preferred Stock ending on or before the dividend payment date of such parity stock, ratably in proportion to the respective amounts of dividends accumulated and unpaid through such dividend payment period on the ESOP Preferred Stock and accumulated and unpaid or payable on such parity stock through the dividend payment period on such parity stock next preceding such Dividend Payment Date. In the event that full cumulative dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock have not been declared and paid or set apart for payment when due, the Corporation shall not declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends or make any other distributions on, or make any payment on account of the purchase, redemption or other retirement of any other class of stock or series thereof of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends or as to distributions in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock until full cumulative dividends on the ESOP Preferred Stock shall have been paid or declared and provided for; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not apply to (i) any dividend payable solely in any shares of any stock ranking, as to dividends or as to distributions in the event of the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock, or (ii) the acquisition of shares of any stock ranking, as to dividends or as to distributions in the event of a liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock either (A) pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted or (B) in exchange solely for shares of any other stock ranking junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock. 

C.    Voting Rights. 
    
  The holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall have the following voting rights: 
    
  (1) The holders of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders 
  of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of the ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to the number of votes equal to the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of ESOP Preferred Stock could be converted on the record date for determining the shareholders entitled to vote, rounded to the nearest whole vote; it being understood that whenever the  Conversion Ratio  (as defined in paragraph E hereof) is adjusted as provided in paragraph I hereof, the voting rights of the ESOP Preferred Stock shall also be similarly adjusted. 

(2) Except as otherwise required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or set forth in paragraph 
  C(l), holders of ESOP Preferred Stock shall have no special voting rights and their consent shall not be required for the taking of any corporate action. 

D.    Liquidation, Dissolution or Winding-Up. 
    
  (1) Upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, the holders of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation which remain after satisfaction in full of all valid claims of creditors of the Corporation and which are available for payment to shareholders and subject to the rights of the holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking senior to or on a parity with the ESOP Preferred Stock in respect of distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, before any amount shall be paid or distributed among the holders of Common Stock or any other shares ranking junior to the ESOP Preferred Stock in respect of the distributions upon liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $42.50 per share, plus an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for distribution, and no more. If upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, the amounts payable with respect to the ESOP Preferred Stock and any other stock ranking as to any such distribution on a parity with the ESOP Preferred Stock are not paid in full, the holders of the ESOP Preferred Stock and such other stock shall share ratably in any distribution of assets in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. After payment of the full amount to which they are entitled as provided by the foregoing provisions of this paragraph D(l), the holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation. 
    
  (2) Neither the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into any other corporation, nor the merger or consolidation of any other corporation with or into the Corporation, nor the sale, transfer or lease of all or any portion of the assets of the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding-up of the affairs of the Corporation for purposes of this paragraph D, but the holders of ESOP Preferred Stock shall nevertheless be entitled in the event of any such merger or consolidation to the rights provided by paragraph H hereof. 
    
  (3) Written notice of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Corporation, stating the payment date or dates when, and the place or places where, the amounts distributable to holders of ESOP Preferred Stock in such circumstances shall be payable, shall be given by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty (20) days prior to any payment date stated therein, to the holders of ESOP Preferred Stock, at the address shown on the books of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock. 

E.    Conversion into Common Stock. 
    
  (1) A holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be entitled, at any time prior to the close of business on the date fixed for redemption of such shares pursuant to paragraph F, G or H hereof, to cause any or all of such shares to be converted into shares of Common Stock at a conversion rate equal to the ratio of 1.0 share of ESOP Preferred Stock to 1.68 shares of Common Stock (as adjusted as hereinafter provided, the  Conversion Ratio ). The Conversion Ratio set forth above is subject to adjustment pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation. 
    
  (2) Any holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock desiring to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock shall surrender the certificate or certificates representing the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock being converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the Corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto), at the principal executive office of the Corporation or the offices of the transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock or such office or offices in the continental United States of an agent for conversion as may from time to time be designated by notice to the holders of the ESOP Preferred Stock by the Corporation or the transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock, accompanied by written notice of conversion. Such notice of conversion shall specify (i) the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted and the name or names in which such holder wishes the certificate or certificates for Common Stock and for any shares of ESOP Preferred Stock not to be so converted to be issued, and (ii) the address to which such holder wishes delivery to be made of such new certificates to be issued upon such conversion. 
    
  (3) Upon surrender of a certificate representing a share or shares of ESOP Preferred Stock for conversion, the Corporation shall issue and send by hand delivery (with receipt to be acknowledged) or by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the holder thereof or to such holder's designee, at the address designated by such holder, a certificate or certificates for the number of shares of Common Stock to which such holder shall be entitled upon conversion. In the event that there shall have been surrendered a certificate or certificates representing shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, only part of which are to be converted, the Corporation shall issue and deliver to such holder or such holder's designee a new certificate or certificates representing the number of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock which shall not have been converted. 

(4) The issuance by the Corporation of shares of Common Stock upon a conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock made at the option of the holder thereof shall be effective as of the earlier of (i) the delivery to such holder or such holder's designee of the certificate or certificates representing the shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion thereof or (ii) the commencement of business on the second business day after the surrender of the certificate or certificates for the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock to be converted, duly assigned or endorsed for transfer to the corporation (or accompanied by duly executed stock powers relating thereto) as provided hereby. On and after the effective date of conversion, the person or persons entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be treated 
  for all purposes as the record holder or holders of such shares of Common Stock, but no allowance or adjustment shall be made in respect of dividends payable to holders of Common Stock in respect of any period prior to such effective date. The Corporation shall not be obligated to pay any dividends which shall have been declared and shall be payable to holders of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock on a Dividend Payment Date if such Dividend Payment Date for such dividend shall coincide with or be on or subsequent to the effective date of conversion of such shares. 
    
  (5) The Corporation shall not be obligated to deliver to holders of ESOP Preferred Stock any fractional share or shares of Common Stock issuable upon any conversion of such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock, but in lieu thereof may make a cash payment in respect thereof in any manner permitted by law. 
    
  (6) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock as herein provided, free from any preemptive rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all shares of ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding. The Corporation shall prepare and shall use its best efforts to obtain and keep in force such governmental or regulatory permits or other authorizations as may be required by law, and shall comply with all requirements 
  as to registration or qualification of the Common Stock, in order to enable the Corporation lawfully to issue and deliver to each holder of record of ESOP Preferred Stock such number of shares of its Common Stock as shall from time to time be sufficient to effect the conversion of all shares of ESOP Preferred Stock then outstanding and convertible into shares of Common Stock. 

F.    Redemption At the Option of the Corporation. 
    
  (1) The ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of the Corporation at any time, at a redemption price per share (except as to redemption pursuant to paragraph F(3)) of $42.83 prior to July 1, 1999 and $42.50 thereafter, plus, in each case, an amount equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. Payment of the redemption price shall be made by the Corporation in cash or shares of Common Stock, or a combination thereof, as permitted by paragraph F(5). From and after the date fixed for redemption, dividends on shares of ESOP Preferred Stock called for redemption will cease to accrue, such shares will no longer be deemed to be outstanding and all rights in 
  respect of such shares of the Corporation shall cease, except the right to receive the redemption price. If less than all of the outstanding shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the Corporation shall either redeem a portion of the shares of each holder determined pro rata based on the number of shares held by each holder or shall select the shares to be redeemed by lot, as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. 
    
  (2) Unless otherwise required by law, notice of redemption will be sent to the holders of ESOP Preferred Stock at the address shown on the books of the Corporation or any transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than twenty (20) days nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the redemption date. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the total number of shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date; and (vi) the conversion rights of the shares to be redeemed, the period within which conversion rights may be exercised, and the Conversion Ratio and number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of a share of ESOP Preferred Stock at the time. These notice provisions may be supplemented if necessary in order to comply with optional redemption provisions for preferred stock which may be required under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ). Upon surrender of the certificates for any shares so called for redemption and not previously converted (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the 
  Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the date fixed for redemption and at the applicable redemption price set forth in this paragraph F. 

(3) In the event of a change in the federal tax law of the United States of America which has the effect of 
  precluding the Corporation from claiming any of the tax deductions for dividends paid on the ESOP Preferred Stock when such dividends are used as provided under Section 404(k)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and in effect on the date shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are initially issued, the Corporation may, within 180 days following the effective date of such tax legislation and implementing regulations of the Internal Revenue Service, if any, in its sole discretion and notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph F(l), elect to redeem any or all such shares for the amount payable in respect of the shares upon liquidation of the Corporation pursuant to paragraph D. 
    
  (4) In the event the C S/Sovran Retirement Savings, ESOP and Profit Sharing Plan (as amended, together with 
  any successor plan, the  Plan ) is terminated, the Corporation shall, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in paragraph F(l), redeem all shares of ESOP Preferred Stock for the amount payable in respect of the shares upon redemption of the ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant to paragraph F(1) hereof. 
    
  (5) The Corporation, at its option, may make payment of the redemption price required upon redemption of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock in cash or in shares of Common Stock, or in a combination of such shares and cash, any such shares to be valued for such purpose at their Fair Market Value (as defined in paragraph I(7) hereof). 

G.    Other Redemption Rights. 
    
  Shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall be redeemed by the Corporation at a price which is the greater of the Conversion Value (as defined in paragraph I) of the ESOP Preferred Stock on the date fixed for redemption or a redemption price of $42.50 per share plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption, for shares of Common Stock (any such shares of Common Stock to be valued for such purpose as provided by paragraph F(5) hereof), at the option of the holder, at any time and from time to time upon notice to the Corporation given not less than five (5) business days prior to the date fixed by the Corporation in such notice for such redemption, when and to the extent necessary (i) to provide for distributions required to be made under, or to satisfy an investment election provided to participants in accordance with, the 
  Plan to participants in the Plan or (ii) to make payment of principal, interest or premium due and payable (whether as scheduled or upon acceleration) on any indebtedness incurred by the holder or Trustee under the Plan for the benefit of the Plan. 

H.    Consolidation, Merger, etc. 
    
  (1) In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any consolidation or merger or similar transaction, however named, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged solely for or changed, reclassified or converted solely into stock of any successor or resulting company (including the Corporation and any company that directly or indirectly owns all of the outstanding capital stock of such successor or resulting company) that constitutes  qualifying employer securities  with respect to a holder of ESOP Preferred Stock within the meaning of Section 409(1) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and Section 407(d)(5) of ERISA, or any successor provisions of law, and, if applicable, for a cash payment in lieu of fractional shares, if any, the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock of such holder shall be assumed by and shall become preferred stock of such successor or resulting company, having in respect of such company insofar as possible the same powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights (including the redemption rights provided by paragraphs F, G and H hereof), and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereon, that the ESOP Preferred Stock had immediately prior to such transaction, except that after such transaction each share of the ESOP Preferred Stock shall be convertible, otherwise on the terms and conditions provided by paragraph E hereof, into the qualifying employer securities so receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election to receive any kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (other than such qualifying employer securities and a cash payment, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares) receivable upon such transaction 
  (provided that, if the kind or amount of qualifying employer securities receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of qualifying employer securities receivable upon such transaction for each non- electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non- electing shares). The rights of the ESOP Preferred Stock as preferred stock of such successor or resulting company shall successively be subject to adjustments pursuant to paragraph I hereof after any such transaction as nearly equivalent to the adjustments provided for by such paragraph prior to such transaction. The Corporation shall not consummate any such merger, consolidation or similar transaction unless 
  all then outstanding shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock shall be assumed and authorized by the successor or resulting company as aforesaid. 

(2) In the event that the Corporation shall consummate any consolidation or merger or similar transaction, however named, pursuant to which the outstanding shares of Common Stock are by operation of law exchanged for or changed, reclassified or converted into other stock or securities or cash or any other property, or any combination thereof, other than any such consideration which is constituted solely of qualifying employer securities (as referred to in paragraph H(l)) and cash payments, if applicable, in lieu of fractional shares, all outstanding shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall, without any action on the part of the Corporation or any holder thereof (but subject to paragraph H(3)), be deemed converted by virtue of such 
  merger, consolidation or similar transaction immediately prior to such consummation into the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted at such time, and each share of ESOP Preferred Stock shall, by virtue of such transaction and on the same terms as apply to the holders of Common Stock, be converted into or exchanged for the aggregate amount of stock, securities, cash or other property (payable in like kind) receivable by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such shares of ESOP Preferred Stock could have been converted immediately prior to such transaction if such holder of Common Stock failed to exercise any rights of election as to the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction (provided that, if the kind or amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction is not the same for each non-electing share, then the kind and amount of stock, securities, cash or other property receivable upon such transaction for each non- electing share shall be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the non-electing shares). 
    
  (3) In the event the Corporation shall enter into any agreement providing for any consolidation or merger or similar transaction described in paragraph H(2), then the Corporation shall as soon as practicable thereafter (and in any event at least ten (10) business days before consummation of such transaction) give notice of such agreement and the material terms thereof to each holder of ESOP Preferred Stock and each such holder shall have the right to elect, by written notice to the Corporation, to receive, upon consummation of such transaction (if and when such transaction is consummated), from the Corporation or the successor of the Corporation, in redemption and retirement of such ESOP Preferred Stock, a cash payment equal to the amount payable in respect of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock upon redemption pursuant to paragraph F(l) hereof. No such notice of redemption shall be effective unless given to the Corporation prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to 
  consummation of such transaction, unless the Corporation or the successor of the Corporation shall waive such prior notice, but any notice of redemption so given prior to such time may be withdrawn by notice of withdrawal given to the Corporation prior to the close of business on the second business day prior to consummation of such transaction. 

I.    Anti-dilution Adjustments. 
    
  (1) In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, (i) pay a dividend or make a distribution in respect of the Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide the outstanding shares of Common Stock, or (iii) combine the outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, in each case whether by reclassification of shares, recapitalization of the Corporation (including a recapitalization effected by a merger or consolidation to which paragraph H hereof does not apply) or otherwise, the Conversion Ratio in effect immediately prior to such action shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by the fraction the numerator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such event and the denominator of which is the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after such event. An adjustment made pursuant to this paragraph I(1) shall be given effect, upon payment of such a dividend or distribution, as of the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to receive such dividend or distribution (on a retroactive basis) and in the case of a subdivision or combination shall become effective immediately as of the effective date thereof. 
    
  (2) In the event that the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue to holders of shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution, including by way of a reclassification of shares or a recapitalization of the Corporation, any right or warrant to purchase shares of Common Stock (but not including as such a right or warrant any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) at a purchase price per share less than the Fair Market Value (as hereinafter defined) of a share of Common Stock on the date of issuance of such right or warrant, then, subject to the provisions of paragraphs I(5) and I(6), the Conversion Ratio shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by the fraction the numerator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants plus the number of shares of Common Stock which could be purchased at the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock at the time of such issuance for the maximum aggregate consideration payable upon exercise in full of all such rights or warrants and the denominator of which shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such issuance of rights or warrants plus the maximum number of shares of Common Stock that could be acquired upon exercise in full of all such rights and warrants. 

(3) In the event the Corporation shall, at any time and from time to time while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue, sell or exchange shares of Common Stock (other than pursuant to any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including as such a right or warrant any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) and other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan or employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement, including any employment, severance or consulting agreement, of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted) for a consideration having a Fair Market Value on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange less than the Fair Market Value of such shares on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange, then, subject to the provisions of paragraphs I(5) and (6), the Conversion Ratio shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by the fraction the numerator of which shall be the sum of (i) the Fair Market Value of all the shares of 
  Common Stock outstanding on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange plus (ii) the Fair Market Value of the consideration received by the Corporation in respect of such issuance, sale or exchange of shares of Common Stock, and the denominator of which shall be the product of (i) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by (ii) the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such day plus the number of shares of Common Stock so issued, sold or exchanged by the Corporation. In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, issue, sell or exchange any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including as such a right or warrant any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock), other than any such issuance to holders of shares of Common Stock as a dividend or distribution (including by way of a reclassification of shares or a recapitalization of the Corporation) and other than pursuant to any dividend reinvestment plan or employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted, for a consideration having a Fair 
  Market Value on the date of such issuance, sale or exchange less than the Non-Dilutive Amount (as hereinafter defined), then, subject to the provisions of paragraphs I(5) and (6), the Conversion Ratio shall be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the sum of (a) the Fair Market Value of all the shares of Common Stock outstanding on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange plus (b) the Fair Market Value of the consideration received by the Corporation in respect of such issuance, sale or exchange of such right 
  or warrant plus (c) the Fair Market Value at the time of such issuance of the consideration which the Corporation would receive upon exercise in full of all such rights or warrants, and the denominator of which shall be the product of (a) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day immediately preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by (b) the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on such day plus the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which could be acquired pursuant to such right or warrant at the time of the issuance, sale or exchange of such right or warrant (assuming shares of Common Stock could be acquired pursuant to such right or warrant at such time). 
    
  (4) In the event the Corporation shall, at any time or from time to time while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, make any Extraordinary Distribution (as hereinafter defined) in respect of the Common Stock, whether by dividend, distribution, reclassification of shares or recapitalization of the Corporation (including a recapitalization or reclassification effected by a merger or consolidation to which paragraph H hereof does not apply) or effect a Pro Rata Repurchase (as hereinafter defined) of Common Stock, the Conversion Ratio in effect immediately prior to such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase shall, subject to paragraphs I(5) and (6), be adjusted by multiplying such Conversion Ratio by a fraction the numerator of which shall be (a) the product of (i) the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately before such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase multiplied by (ii) the Fair Market Value (as herein defined) of a share of Common Stock on the Valuation Date (as hereinafter defined) with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution, or on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase, or on the date of purchase with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase which is not a tender offer, as the case may be, minus (b) the Fair Market Value of the Extraordinary Distribution or the aggregate purchase price of the Pro Rata Repurchase, as the case may be, and the denominator of which shall be the product of (i) the number of shares of Common Stock 
  outstanding immediately before such Extraordinary Distribution or Pro Rata Repurchase minus, in the case of a Pro Rata Repurchase, the number of shares of Common Stock repurchased by the Corporation multiplied by (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the record date with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution or on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase or on the date of purchase with respect to any Pro Rata Repurchase which is not a tender offer, as the case may be. The Corporation shall send each holder of ESOP Preferred Stock (x) notice of its intent to make any Extraordinary Distribution and (y) notice of any offer by the Corporation to make a Pro Rata Repurchase, in each case at the same time as, or as soon as practicable after, such offer is first communicated (including by announcement of a record date in accordance with the rules of any stock exchange on which the Common Stock 
  is listed or admitted to trading) to holders of Common Stock. Such notice shall indicate the intended record date and the 
  amount and nature of such dividend or distribution, or the number of shares subject to such offer for a Pro Rata Repurchase and the purchase price payable by the Corporation pursuant to such offer, as well as the Conversion Ratio and the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of ESOP Preferred Stock may be converted at such time. 

(5) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this paragraph I, the Corporation shall not be required to make any adjustment of the Conversion Ratio unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent 
  (1%) in the Conversion Ratio. Any lesser adjustment shall be carried forward and shall be made no later than the time of, and together with, the next subsequent adjustment which, together with any adjustment or adjustments so carried forward, shall amount to an increase or decrease of at least one percent (1%) in the Conversion Ratio. 
    
  (6) If the Corporation shall make any dividend or distribution on the Common Stock or issue any Common Stock, other capital stock or other security of the Corporation or any rights or warrants to purchase or acquire any such security, which transaction does not result in an adjustment to the Conversion Ratio pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph I, the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall consider whether such action is of such a nature that an adjustment to the Conversion Ratio should equitably be made in respect of such transaction. If in such case the Board of Directors of the Corporation determines that the adjustment to the Conversion Ratio should be made, an adjustment shall be made effective as 
  of such date, as determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. The determination of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as to whether an adjustment to the Conversion Ratio should be made pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this paragraph I(6), and, if so, as to what adjustment should be made and when, shall be final and binding on the Corporation and all shareholders of the Corporation. The Corporation shall be entitled to make such additional adjustments in the Conversion 
  Ratio, in addition to those required by the foregoing provisions of this paragraph I, as shall be necessary in order that any dividend or distribution in shares of capital stock of the Corporation, subdivision, reclassification or combination of shares of stock of the Corporation or any recapitalization of the Corporation shall not be taxable to holders of the Common Stock. 
    
  (7) For purposes of this paragraph I, the following definitions shall apply: 
    
   Conversion Value  shall mean the Fair Market Value of the aggregate number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of ESOP Preferred Stock is convertible. 
    
   Extraordinary Distribution  shall mean any dividend or other distribution (effected while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding) (a) of cash, where the aggregate amount of such cash dividend and distribution together with the amount of all cash dividends and distributions made during the preceding period of 12 months, when combined with the aggregate amount of all Pro Rata Repurchases (for this purpose, including only that portion of the aggregate purchase price of such Pro Rata Repurchase which is in excess of the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock repurchased as determined on the applicable expiration date (including all extensions thereof) of any tender offer or exchange offer which is a Pro Rata Repurchase, or the date of purchase with respect to any other Pro Rata Repurchase which is not a tender offer or exchange offer made during such period), exceeds Twelve and One- Half percent (12.5%) of the aggregate Fair Market Value 
  of all shares of Common Stock outstanding on the record date for determining the shareholders entitled to receive such Extraordinary Distribution and (b) any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (other than shares of Common Stock), other securities of the Corporation (other than securities of the type referred to in paragraph I(2)), evidence of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person or any other property (including shares of any subsidiary of the Corporation), or any combination thereof. The Fair Market Value of an Extraordinary Distribution for purposes of paragraph I(4) shall be the sum of the Fair Market Value of such Extraordinary Distribution plus the amount of any cash dividends which are not Extraordinary Distributions made during such twelve- month period and not previously included in the calculation of an adjustment pursuant to paragraph I(4). 
    
   Fair Market Value  shall mean, as to shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or securities of the Corporation or any other issuer which are publicly traded, the average of the Current Market Prices (as hereinafter defined) of such shares or securities for each day of the Adjustment Period (as hereinafter defined).  Current Market Price  of publicly traded shares of Common Stock or any other class of capital stock or other security of the Corporation or any other issuer for a day shall mean the last reported sales price, regular way, or, in case no sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, in either case as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or, if such security is not listed or admitted to trading on the New York Stock Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which such security is listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on any national securities exchange, on The Nasdaq National Market or, if such security is not quoted on Nasdaq, the average of the closing bid and asked prices on each such day in the over-the-counter market as reported by Nasdaq or, if bid and asked prices for such security on each such day shall not have been reported through Nasdaq, the average of the bid and asked prices for 
  such day as furnished by any New York Stock Exchange member firm selected for such purpose by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof on each trading day during the Adjustment Period.  Adjustment Period  shall mean the period of five (5) consecutive trading days preceding the date as of which the Fair Market Value of a security is to be determined. The  Fair Market Value  of any security which is not publicly traded or of any other property shall mean the fair value thereof as determined by an independent investment banking or appraisal firm experienced in the valuation of such securities or property selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof, or, if no such investment banking or appraisal firm is in the good faith judgment of the Board of Directors or such committee available to make such determination, as determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or such committee. 

Non-Dilutive Amount  in respect of an issuance, sale or exchange by the Corporation of any right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock (including any security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock) shall mean the remainder of (a) the product of the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the day preceding the first public announcement of such issuance, sale or exchange multiplied by the maximum number of shares of Common Stock which could be acquired on such date upon the exercise in full of such rights and warrants (including upon the conversion or exchange of all such convertible or exchangeable securities), whether or not exercisable (or convertible or exchangeable) at such date, minus (b) the aggregate amount payable pursuant to such right or warrant to purchase or acquire such maximum number of shares of Common Stock; provided, however, that in no event shall the Non- Dilutive Amount be less than zero. For purposes of the foregoing sentence, in the case of a security convertible into or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock, the amount payable pursuant to a right or warrant to purchase or acquire shares of Common Stock shall be the Fair Market Value of such security on the date of the issuance, sale or exchange of such security by the Corporation. 
    
   Pro Rata Repurchase  shall mean any purchase of shares of Common Stock by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof, whether for cash, shares of capital stock of the Corporation, other securities of the Corporation, evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation or any other person or any other property (including shares of a subsidiary of the Corporation), or any combination thereof, effected while any of the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are outstanding, pursuant to any tender offer or exchange offer subject to Section 13(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or any successor provision of law, or pursuant to any other offer available to substantially all holders of Common Stock; provided, however, that no purchase of shares by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof made in open market transactions shall be deemed a Pro Rata Repurchase. For purposes of this paragraph I(7), shares shall be deemed to have been purchased by the Corporation or any subsidiary thereof  in open market transactions  if they have been purchased substantially in accordance with the requirements of Rule 10b-18 as in effect under the Exchange Act, on the date shares of ESOP Preferred Stock are initially issued by the Corporation or on such other terms and conditions as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or a committee thereof shall have determined are reasonably designed to prevent such purchases from having a material effect on 
  the trading market for the Common Stock. 
    
   Valuation Date  with respect to an Extraordinary Distribution shall mean the date that is five (5) business days prior to the record date for such Extraordinary Distribution. 
    
  (8) Whenever an adjustment to the Conversion Ratio is required pursuant hereto, the Corporation shall forthwith place on file with the transfer agent for the Common Stock and the ESOP Preferred Stock if there be one, and with the Secretary of the Corporation, a statement signed by two officers of the Corporation, stating the adjusted Conversion Ratio determined as provided herein and the voting rights (as appropriately adjusted) of the ESOP Preferred Stock. Such statement shall set forth in reasonable detail such facts as shall be necessary to show the reason and the manner of computing such 
  adjustment, including any determination of Fair Market Value involved in such computation. Promptly after each adjustment to the Conversion Ratio and the related voting rights of the ESOP Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall mail a notice thereof to each holder of shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock. 

J.    Ranking; Retirement of Shares. 
    
  (1) The ESOP Preferred Stock shall rank (a) senior to the Common Stock as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution and winding-up of the Corporation and (b) unless otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation of the Corporation or an amendment to such Articles of Incorporation relating to a subsequent series 
  of Preferred Shares, junior to all other series of Preferred Shares as to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets on liquidation, dissolution or winding-up. 
    
  (2) Any shares of ESOP Preferred Stock acquired by the Corporation by reason of the conversion or redemption of such shares as provided hereby, or otherwise so acquired, shall be retired as shares of ESOP Preferred Stock and restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Shares, undesignated as to series, and may thereafter be reissued as part of a new series of such Preferred Shares as permitted by law. 

K.    Miscellaneous. 
    
  (1) All notices referred to herein shall be in writing, and all notices hereunder shall be deemed to have been given upon the earlier of receipt thereof or three (3) business days after the mailing thereof if sent by registered mail (unless first- class mail shall be specifically permitted for such notice under the terms hereof) with postage prepaid, addressed: (a) if to the 
  Corporation, to its office at Bank of America Corporate Center, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255 (Attention: Treasurer) or to the transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock, or other agent of the Corporation designated as permitted hereby or (b) if to any holder of the ESOP Preferred Stock or Common Stock, as the case may be, to such holder at the address of such holder as listed in the stock record books of the Corporation (which may include the records of any transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock 

or Common Stock, as the case may be) or (c) to such other address as the Corporation or any such holder, as the case may be, shall have designated by notice similarly given. 
    
  (2) The term  Common Stock  as used herein means the Corporation's Common Stock, as the same existed at the date of filing of the Amendment to the Corporation's Articles of Incorporation relating to the ESOP Preferred Stock or any other class of stock resulting from successive changes or reclassification of such Common Stock consisting solely of changes in par value, or from par value to no par value. In the event that, at any time as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to paragraph I hereof, the holder of any share of the ESOP Preferred Stock upon thereafter surrendering such shares for conversion shall become entitled to receive any shares or other securities of the Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, the 
  Conversion Ratio in respect of such other shares or securities so receivable upon conversion of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall thereafter be adjusted, and shall be subject to further adjustment from time to time, in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to Common Stock contained in paragraph I hereof, and the provisions of paragraphs A through H, J, and K hereof with respect to the Common Stock shall apply on like or similar terms to any such other shares or securities. 
    
  (3) The Corporation shall pay any and all stock transfer and documentary stamp taxes that may be payable in respect of any issuance or delivery of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock or shares of Common Stock or other securities issued on account of ESOP Preferred Stock pursuant hereto or certificates representing such shares or securities. The Corporation shall not, however, be required to pay any such tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance or delivery of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock or Common Stock or other securities in a name other than that in which the shares of ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to which such shares or other securities are issued or delivered were registered, or in respect of any payment to any person with respect to any such shares or securities other than a payment to the registered holder thereof, and shall not be required to make any such issuance, delivery or payment unless and until the person otherwise entitled to such issuance, delivery or payment has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid or is not payable. 
    
  (4) In the event that a holder of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of such shares should be registered or to whom payment upon redemption of shares of ESOP Preferred Stock should be made or the address to which the certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, should be sent, the Corporation shall be entitled to register such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the holder of such ESOP Preferred Stock as shown on the records of the Corporation and to send the certificate or certificates representing such shares, or such payment, to the address of such holder shown on the records of the Corporation. 
    
  (5) The Corporation may appoint, and from time to time discharge and change, a transfer agent for the ESOP Preferred Stock. Upon any such appointment or discharge of a transfer agent, the Corporation shall send notice thereof by first- class mail, postage prepaid, to each holder of record of ESOP Preferred Stock. 
    
  (c) $2.50 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series BB. 

A.    Designation. 
    
  The designation of this series is  $2.50 Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series BB  (hereinafter referred to as the  Series BB Preferred Stock ), and the initial number of shares constituting such series shall be 20,000,000, which 
  number may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares then outstanding) from time to time by the Board 
  of Directors. The Series BB Preferred Stock shall rank prior to each of the Common Stock, the Series B Preferred Stock and the 
  ESOP Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets. 

B.    Dividend Rights. 
    
  (1) The holders of shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when and as declared by the 
  Board of Directors, out of funds legally available therefor, cumulative preferential cash dividends, accruing from January 1, 
  1998, at the annual rate of $2.50 per share, and no more, payable quarterly on the first day of January, April, July and October of each year (each of the quarterly periods ending on the last day of March, June, September and December being hereinafter referred to as a  dividend period ). Dividends on the Series BB Preferred Stock shall first become payable on the first day of January, April, July or October, as the case may be, next following the date of issuance; provided, however, that if the first dividend period ends within 20 days of the date of issuance, such initial dividend shall be payable at the completion of the first full dividend period. 

(2) Dividends on shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be cumulative from January 1, 1998, whether or not there shall be funds legally available for the payment thereof. Accumulations of dividends on the Series BB Preferred Stock shall not bear interest. The Corporation shall not (i) declare or pay or set apart for payment any dividends or distributions on any stock ranking as to dividends junior to the Series BB Preferred Stock (other than dividends paid in shares of such junior stock) or (ii) make any purchase or redemption of, or any sinking fund payment for the purchase or redemption of, any stock ranking as to dividends junior to the Series BB Preferred Stock (other than a purchase or redemption made by issue or delivery of such junior stock) unless all dividends payable on all outstanding shares of Series BB Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods shall have been paid in full or declared and a sufficient sum set apart for payment thereof; provided, however, that any moneys theretofore deposited in any sinking fund with respect to any preferred stock of the Corporation in compliance with the provisions of such sinking fund may thereafter be applied to the purchase or redemption of such preferred stock in accordance with the terms of such sinking fund regardless of whether at the time of such application all dividends payable on all outstanding shares of Series BB Preferred Stock for all past dividend periods shall have been paid in full or declared and a sufficient sum set apart for payment thereof. 
    
  (3) All dividends declared on shares of Series BB Preferred Stock and any other class of preferred stock or series thereof ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series BB Preferred Stock shall be declared pro rata, so that the amounts of dividends declared on the Series BB Preferred Stock and such other preferred stock for the same dividend period, or for the dividend period of the Series BB Preferred Stock ending within the dividend period of such other stock, shall, in all cases, bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends on the shares of Series BB Preferred Stock and such other stock bear to each other. 

C.    Liquidation Preference. 
    
  (1) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the holders of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to shareholders an amount equal to $25 per share plus an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to and including the date of such distribution, and no more, before any distribution shall be made to the holders of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series BB Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets. 
    
  (2) In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to shareholders upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to the Series BB Preferred Stock and any other shares of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity with the Series BB Preferred Stock as to the distribution of assets, the holders of Series BB Preferred Stock and the holders of such other preferred stock shall share ratably in any distribution of assets of the Corporation in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled. 
    
  (3) The merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation, the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation or the sale of the assets of the Corporation substantially as an entirety shall not be deemed a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation within the meaning of this paragraph C. 

D.    Redemption. 
    
  (1) The Corporation, at its option, may redeem all or any shares of the Series BB Preferred Stock at any time at a redemption price (the  Redemption Price ) consisting of the sum of (i) $25 per share and (ii) an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to and including the date of redemption. 
    
  (2) If less than all the outstanding shares of Series BB Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected pro rata as nearly as practicable or by lot, as the Board of Directors may determine. 
    
  (3) Notice of any redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 60 nor more than 90 days prior to the date fixed for redemption to the holders of record of the shares of Series BB Preferred Stock to be redeemed, at their respective addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Notice so mailed shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given whether or not actually received. Such notice shall state: (1) the date fixed for redemption; (2) the Redemption Price; (3) the right of the holders of Series BB Preferred Stock to convert such stock into Common Stock until the close of business on the 15th day prior to the redemption date (or the next succeeding business day, if the 15th day is not a business day); (4) if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of shares to be redeemed from such holder; and (5) the place(s) where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the Redemption Price. If such notice is mailed as aforesaid, and if on or before the date fixed for redemption funds sufficient to redeem the shares called for redemption are set aside by the Corporation in trust for the account of the holders of the shares to be 

redeemed, notwithstanding the fact that any certificate for shares called for redemption shall not have been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date the shares represented thereby so called for redemption shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, dividends thereon shall cease to accrue, and all rights of the holders of such shares as shareholders of the corporation shall cease, except the right to receive the Redemption Price, without interest, upon surrender of the certificate(s) representing such shares. Upon surrender in accordance with the aforesaid notice of the certificate(s) for any shares so redeemed (duly endorsed or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer, if so required by the Corporation in such notice), the holders of record of such shares shall be entitled to receive the Redemption Price, without interest. 
    
  (4) At the option of the Corporation, if notice of redemption is mailed as aforesaid, and if prior to the date fixed for redemption funds sufficient to pay in full the Redemption Price are deposited in trust, for the account of the holders of the shares to be redeemed, with a bank or trust company named in such notice doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, the City of New York, State of New York or the City of Charlotte, State of North Carolina and having capital, surplus and undivided profits of at least $3 million, which bank or trust company also may be the Transfer Agent and/or Paying Agent for the Series BB Preferred Stock, notwithstanding the fact that any certificate for shares called for redemption shall not have been surrendered for cancellation, on and after such date of deposit the shares represented thereby so called for redemption shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, and all rights of the holders of such shares as shareholders of the Corporation shall cease, except the right of the holders thereof to convert such shares in accordance with the provisions of paragraph F at any time prior to the close of business on the 15th day prior to the redemption date (or the next succeeding business day, if the 15th day is not a business day), and the right of the holders thereof to receive out of the funds so deposited in trust the Redemption Price, without interest, upon surrender of the certificate(s) representing such shares. Any funds so deposited with such bank or trust company in respect of shares of Series BB Preferred Stock converted before the close of business on the 15th day prior to the redemption date (or the next succeeding business day, if the 15th day is not a business day) shall be returned to the Corporation upon such conversion. Any funds so deposited with such a bank or trust company which shall remain unclaimed by the holders of shares called for redemption at the end of six years after the redemption date shall be repaid to the Corporation, on demand, and thereafter the holder of any such shares shall look only to the Corporation for the payment, without interest, of the Redemption Price. 
    
  (5) Any provisions of paragraph D or E to the contrary notwithstanding, in the event that any quarterly dividend payable on the Series BB Preferred Stock shall be in arrears and until all such dividends in arrears shall have been paid or declared and set apart for payment, the Corporation shall not redeem any shares of Series BB Preferred Stock unless all outstanding shares of Series BB Preferred Stock are simultaneously redeemed and shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of Series BB Preferred Stock except in accordance with a purchase offer made by the Corporation on the same terms to all holders of record of Series BB Preferred Stock for the purchase of all outstanding shares thereof. 

E.    Purchase by the Corporation. 
    
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph D(5), the Corporation shall be obligated to purchase shares of Series BB Preferred Stock tendered by the holder thereof for purchase hereunder, at a purchase price consisting of the sum of (i) $25 per share and (ii) an amount equal to accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to and including the date of purchase. In order to exercise his right to require the Corporation to purchase his shares of Series BB Preferred Stock, the holder thereof shall surrender the Certificate(s) therefor duly endorsed if the Corporation shall so require or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer satisfactory to the Corporation, at the office of the Transfer Agent(s) for the Series BB Preferred Stock, or at such other office as may be designated by the Corporation, together with written notice that such holder irrevocably elects to sell such shares to the Corporation. Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be deemed to have been purchased by the Corporation immediately prior to the close of business on the date such shares are tendered for sale to the Corporation and notice of election to sell the same is received by the Corporation in accordance with the foregoing provisions. As of such date the shares so tendered for sale shall be deemed to be no longer outstanding, dividends thereon shall cease to accrue and all 
  rights of the holder of such shares as a shareholder of the Corporation shall cease, except the right to receive the purchase price. 

F.    Conversion Rights. 
    
  The holders of shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall have the right, at their option, to convert such shares into shares of Common Stock on the following terms and conditions: 
    
  (1) Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be convertible at any time into fully paid and nonassessable shares of Common Stock (calculated as to each conversion to the nearest 1/1,000 of a share) at the initial rate of 6.17215 shares of Common Stock for each share of Series BB Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion (the  Conversion Rate ). The Conversion Rate shall be subject to adjustment from time to time as hereinafter provided. No payment or adjustment shall be made on account of any accrued and unpaid dividends on shares of Series BB Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion prior to the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to such dividends or on account of any dividends on the 

Common Stock issued upon such conversion subsequent to the record date for the determination of shareholders entitled to such dividends. If any shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be called for redemption, the right to convert the shares designated for redemption shall terminate at the close of business on the 15th day prior to the redemption date (or the next succeeding business day, if the 15th day is not a business day) unless default be made in the payment of the Redemption Price. In the event of default in the payment of the Redemption Price, the right to convert the shares designated for redemption shall terminate at the close of business on the business day immediately preceding the date that such default is cured. 
    
  (2) In order to convert shares of Series BB Preferred Stock into Common Stock, the holder thereof shall surrender the certificate(s) therefor, duly endorsed if the Corporation shall so require, or accompanied by appropriate instruments of transfer satisfactory to the Corporation, at the office of the Transfer Agent(s) for the Series BB Preferred Stock, or at such other office as may be designated by the Corporation, together with written notice that such holder irrevocably elects to convert such shares. Such notice shall also state the name(s) and address(es) in which such holder wishes the certificate(s) for the shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion to be issued. As soon as practicable after receipt of the certificate(s) representing the shares of Series BB Preferred Stock to be converted and the notice of election to convert the same, the Corporation shall issue and deliver at said office a certificate or certificates for the number of whole shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the shares of Series BB Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion, together with a cash payment in lieu of any fraction of a share, as hereinafter provided, to the person(s) entitled to receive the same. Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be 
  deemed to have been converted immediately prior to the close of business on the date such shares are surrendered for conversion and notice of election to convert the same is received by the Corporation in accordance with the foregoing provisions, and the person(s) entitled to receive the Common Stock issuable upon such conversion shall be deemed for all purposes as record holder(s) of such Common Stock as of such date. 
    
  (3) No fractional shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of any shares of Series BB Preferred Stock. If more than one share of Series BB Preferred Stock is surrendered at one time by the same holder, the number of full shares issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares so surrendered. If the conversion of any shares of Series BB Preferred Stock results in a fractional share of Common Stock, the Corporation shall pay cash in lieu thereof in an amount equal to such fraction multiplied times the closing price of the Common Stock on the date on which the shares of Series BB Preferred Stock were duly surrendered for conversion, or if such date is not a trading date, on the next succeeding trading date. The closing price of the Common Stock for any day shall mean the last reported sales price 
  regular way on such day or, in case no such sale takes place on such day, the average of the reported closing bid and asked prices, regular way, on the New York Stock Exchange, or, if the Common Stock is not then listed on such Exchange, on the principal national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed for trading, or, if not then listed for trading on any national securities exchange, the average of the closing bid and asked prices of the Common Stock as furnished by the National Quotation Bureau, Inc., or if the National Quotation Bureau, Inc. ceases to furnish such information, by a comparable independent securities quotation service. 
    
  (4) In the event the Corporation shall at any time (i) pay a dividend or make a distribution to holders of Common 
  Stock in shares of Common Stock, (ii) subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a larger number of shares, or 
  (iii) combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, the Conversion Rate in effect at the time of the record date for such dividend or distribution or the effective date of such subdivision or combination shall be adjusted so that the holder of any shares of Series BB Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion after such record date or effective date shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of Common Stock which he would have owned or have been entitled to receive immediately following such record date or effective date had such shares of Series BB Preferred Stock been converted immediately prior thereto. 
    
  (5) Whenever the Conversion Rate shall be adjusted as herein provided (i) the Corporation shall forthwith keep available at the office of the Transfer Agent(s) for the Series BB Preferred Stock a statement describing in reasonable detail the adjustment, the facts requiring such adjustment and the method of calculation used; and (ii) the Corporation shall cause to be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, as soon as practicable to each holder of record of shares of Series BB Preferred Stock a notice stating that the Conversion Rate has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Rate. 
    
  (6) In the event of any consolidation of the Corporation with or merger of the Corporation into any other corporation (other than a merger in which the Corporation is the surviving corporation) or a sale of the assets of the Corporation substantially as an entirety, the holder of each share of Series BB Preferred Stock shall have the right, after such consolidation, merger or sale to convert such share into the number and kind of shares of stock or other securities and the amount and kind of property receivable upon such consolidation, merger or sale by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of such share of Series BB Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consolidation, merger or sale. Provision shall be made for adjustments in the Conversion Rate which shall be as nearly equivalent as may be practicable to the adjustments provided for in paragraph F(4). The provisions of this paragraph F(6) shall similarly apply to successive consolidations, mergers and sales. 

(7) The Corporation shall pay any taxes that may be payable in respect of the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon conversion of shares of Series BB Preferred Stock, but the Corporation shall not be required to pay any taxes which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issuance of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that in which the shares of Series BB Preferred Stock so converted are registered, and the Corporation shall not be required to issue or deliver 
  any such shares unless and until the person(s) requesting such issuance shall have paid to the Corporation the amount of any such taxes, or shall have established to the satisfaction of the Corporation that such taxes have been paid. 
    
  (8) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock the full number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of all shares of Series BB Preferred Stock then outstanding. 
    
  (9) In the event that: 
    
  (i) The Corporation shall declare a dividend or any other distribution on its Common Stock, payable otherwise than in cash out of retained earnings; or 
    
  (ii) The Corporation shall authorize the granting to the holders of its Common Stock of rights to subscribe for or purchase any shares of capital stock of any class or of any other rights; or 
    
  (iii) The Corporation shall propose to effect any consolidation of the Corporation with or merger of the Corporation with or into any other corporation or a sale of the assets of the company substantially as an entirety which would result in an adjustment under paragraph F(6), 
    
  the Corporation shall cause to be mailed to the holders of record of Series BB Preferred Stock at least 20 days prior to the applicable date hereinafter specified a notice stating (x) the date on which a record is to be taken for the purpose of such dividend, distribution or rights or, if a record is not to be taken, the date as of which the holders of Common Stock of record to be entitled to such dividend, distribution or rights are to be determined or (y) the date on which such consolidation, merger or sale is expected to become effective, and the date as of which it is expected that holders of Common Stock of record shall be entitled to exchange their shares of Common Stock for securities or other property deliverable upon such consolidation, merger or sale. Failure to give such notice, or any defect therein, shall not affect the legality or validity of such dividend, distribution, consolidation, merger or sale. 

G.    Voting Rights. 
    
  Holders of Series BB Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights except as required by law and as follows: in the event that any quarterly dividend payable on the Series BB Preferred Stock is in arrears, the holders of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote together with the holders of Common Stock at the Corporation's next meeting of shareholders and at each subsequent meeting of shareholders unless all dividends in arrears have been paid or declared and set apart for payment prior to the date of such meeting. For the purpose of this paragraph G, each holder of Series BB Preferred Stock shall be entitled to cast the number of votes equal to the number of whole shares of Common Stock into which his Series BB Preferred Stock is then convertible. 

H.    Reacquired Shares. 
    
  Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock converted, redeemed, or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 

I.    No Sinking Fund. 
    
  Shares of Series BB Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  4. The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is Corporation Trust Center, 1209 
  Orange Street in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle. The name of the Corporation's registered agent at such address is The Corporation Trust Company. 
    
  5. No holder of any stock of the Corporation of any class now or hereafter authorized shall have any preemptive right to purchase, subscribe for, or otherwise acquire any shares of stock of the Corporation of any class now or hereafter authorized, or any securities exchangeable for or convertible into any such shares, or any warrants or other instruments evidencing rights or options to subscribe for, purchase or otherwise acquire any such shares whether such shares, securities, warrants or other instruments be unissued, or issued and thereafter acquired by the Corporation. 
    
  6. To the fullest extent permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, a director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation, its shareholders or 

otherwise for monetary damage for breach of his duty as a director. Any repeal or modification of this Article shall be prospective only and shall not adversely affect any limitation on the personal liability of a director of the Corporation existing at the time of such repeal or modification. 
    
  7. In furtherance and not in limitation of the powers conferred by law, the Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly authorized and empowered to make, alter and repeal the Bylaws of the Corporation by a majority vote at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors or by written consent, subject to the power of the stockholders of the Corporation to alter or repeal any Bylaws made by the Board of Directors. 
    
  8. The Corporation reserves the right at any time from time to time to amend or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, and to add any other provisions authorized by the laws of the State of Delaware at the time in force; and all rights, preferences and privileges conferred upon stockholders, directors or any other persons by and pursuant to this Certificate of Incorporation in its present form or as hereafter amended are granted subject to the rights reserved in this Article. 
    
  9. Unless and except to the extent that the Bylaws of the Corporation shall so require, the election of directors of the Corporation need not be by written ballot. 
    
  10. Any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of the Corporation must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation or may be effected by consent in writing in lieu of a meeting of such stockholders only if consents are signed by all stockholders of the Corporation entitled to vote on such action. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, BankAmerica Corporation has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be signed by Hugh L. McColl, Jr., its Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and attested to by James W. Kiser, its Secretary, this 28th day of April, 1999. 

BANKAMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ Hugh L. McColl, Jr. 
      Name: 
    Hugh L. McColl, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 

ATTEST: 

By: 
    /s/ James W. Kiser 
        
    James W. Kiser 
        
    Secretary 

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT 
  OF 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation (the  Corporation ), does hereby certify as follows: 
    
  FIRST: That at a meeting of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, resolutions were duly adopted setting forth a proposed amendment of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, declaring said amendment to be advisable and calling a meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for consideration thereof. The resolution setting forth the proposed amendment is as follows: 
    
  RESOLVED, that Article 3 of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation be amended by changing the number of shares of stock the Corporation is authorized to issue, so that, as amended, the first sentence of said Article 3 shall be and read as follows: 
    
   3. The number of shares, par value $.01 per share, the Corporation is authorized to issue is Seven Billion Six 
  Hundred Million (7,600,000,000), divided into the following classes: 

The balance of said Article 3 shall remain unchanged. 
    
  SECOND: That said amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the Delaware General Corporation Law. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 26th day of March, 2004. 

By: 
    /s/ James H. Hance, Jr. 
      Name: 
    James H. Hance, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
    
  OF 
    
  FIXED/ADJUSTABLE RATE CUMULATIVE 
    
  PREFERRED STOCK 
    
  OF 
    
  Bank of America Co  rporation 
    
  (Pursuant to Section 151 of the Delaware Corporation Law) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on January 28, 2004: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ) and hereby states the designation and number thereof and fixes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  (a)   Designation  . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock shall be  Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock  (hereinafter called this  Series ) and the number of shares constituting this Series is Eight Hundred Five Thousand (805,000). 
    
  (b)   Dividend Rate  . 
    
  (1) The holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive dividends thereon at a rate of 6.60% per annum computed on the basis of an issue price thereof of $250 per share, and no more, payable quarterly out of the funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of dividends. Such dividends shall be cumulative from the date of original issue of such shares and shall be payable, when, as and if declared by the Board, on January 1, April 1, July 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing July 1, 2004 (a  Dividend Payment Date ) through April 1, 2006. Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record date, not exceeding 30 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board. Dividends on account of arrears for any past quarters may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not exceeding 45 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board. 
    
  After April 1, 2006, dividends on this Series will be payable quarterly, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof on each Dividend Payment Date at the Applicable Rate from time to time in effect. The Applicable Rate per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be equal to .50% plus the highest 
  of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate (each as defined below under  Adjustable Rate Dividends ), as determined in advance of such dividend period. The Applicable Rate per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will not be less than 7.0% nor greater than 13.0% (without taking into account any adjustments as described below in subsection (3) of this Section (b)). 
    
  (2) Except as provided below in this paragraph, the  Applicable Rate  per annum for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be equal to .50% plus the Effective Rate (as defined below), but not less than 7.0% nor greater than 13.0% (without taking into account any adjustments as described below in subsection (3) of this Section (b)). The  Effective Rate  for any dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be equal to the highest of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate (each as defined below) for such dividend period. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason: 
    
  (i) any one of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate cannot be determined for any dividend period, then the Effective Rate for such dividend period will be equal to the higher of whichever two of such rates can be so determined; 
    
  (ii) only one of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate can be determined for any dividend period, then the Effective Rate for such dividend period will be equal to whichever such rate can be so determined; or 

(iii) none of the Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate or the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate can be determined for any dividend period, then the Effective Rate for the preceding dividend period will be continued for such dividend period. 
    
  Except as described below in this paragraph, the  Treasury Bill Rate  for each dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during the relevant Calendar Period (as defined below)) for three-month U.S. Treasury bills, as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board (as defined below) during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the last ten calendar days preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on this Series is being determined. In the event that the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such a weekly per annum market discount rate during any such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for three-month U.S. Treasury bills, as published weekly during such Calendar Period by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that a per annum market discount rate for three-month U.S. Treasury bills is not published by the Federal Reserve Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency during such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum market discount rates (or the one weekly per annum market discount rate, if only one such rate is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the U.S. Treasury bills then having remaining maturities of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days, as published during such Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such rates, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government Department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason no such U.S. Treasury Bill Rates are published as provided above during such Calendar Period, then the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum market discount rates based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of marketable non-interest- bearing U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining maturity of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days from the date of each such quotation, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation cannot determine the Treasury Bill Rate for any dividend period as provided above in this paragraph, the Treasury Bill Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum market discount rates based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of marketable interest-bearing U.S. Treasury securities with a remaining maturity of not less than 80 nor more than 100 days, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation. 
    
  Except as described below in this paragraph, the  Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate  for each dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yields (as defined below) (or the one weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yield, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the last ten calendar days preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on this Series is being determined. In the event that the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such a weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yield during such Calendar Period, then the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yields (or the one weekly per annum Ten Year Average Yield, if only such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly during such Calendar Period by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that a per annum Ten Year Average Yield is not published by the Federal Reserve Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency during such Calendar Period, then the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum average yields to maturity (or the one weekly per annum average yield to maturity, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities (as defined below)) then having remaining maturities of not less than eight nor more than twelve years, as published during such Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such yields, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation cannot determine the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for any dividend period as provided above in this paragraph, then the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum average yields to maturity based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities) with a final maturity date not less than eight nor more than twelve years from the date of each such quotation, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less  

frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation. 
    
  Except as described below in this paragraph, the  Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate  for each dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yields (as defined below) (or the one weekly per annum Thirty Year Yield, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly by the Federal Reserve Board during the Calendar Period immediately preceding the last ten calendar days preceding the dividend period for which the dividend rate on this Series is being determined. In the event that the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such a weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yield during such Calendar Period, then the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yields (or the one weekly per annum Thirty Year Average Yield, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period), as published weekly during such Calendar Period by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that a per annum Thirty Year Average Yield is not published by the Federal Reserve Board or by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency during such Calendar Period, then the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the two most recent weekly per annum average yields to maturity (or the one weekly per annum average yield to maturity, if only one such yield is published during the relevant Calendar Period) for all of the actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities) then having remaining maturities of not less than twenty- eight nor more than thirty years, as published during such Calendar Period by the Federal Reserve Board or, if the Federal Reserve Board does not publish such yields, by any Federal Reserve Bank or by any U.S. Government department or agency selected by the Corporation. In the event that the Corporation determines in good faith that for any reason the Corporation cannot determine the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for any dividend period as provided above in this paragraph, then the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate for such dividend period will be the arithmetic average of the per annum average yields to maturity based upon the closing bids during such Calendar Period for each of the issues of actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (other than Special Securities) with a final maturity date not less than twenty-eight nor more than thirty years from the date of such quotation, as chosen and quoted daily for each business day in New York City (or less frequently if daily quotations are not generally available) to the Corporation by at least three recognized dealers in U.S. Government securities selected by the Corporation. 
    
  The Treasury Bill Rate, the Ten Year Constant Maturity Rate and the Thirty Year Constant Maturity Rate will each be rounded to the nearest five hundredths of a percent. 
    
  The Applicable Rate with respect to each dividend period beginning on or after April 1, 2006 will be calculated as promptly as practicable by the Corporation according to the appropriate method described above. The Corporation will cause notice of each Applicable Rate to be enclosed with the dividend payment checks next mailed to the holders of this Series. 
    
  As used above, the term  Calendar Period  means a period of fourteen calendar days; the term  Federal Reserve Board  means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System; the term  Special Securities  means securities which can, at the option of the holder, be surrendered at face value in payment of any Federal estate tax or which provide tax benefits to the holder and are priced to reflect such tax benefits or which were originally issued at a deep or substantial discount; the term  Ten Year Average Yield  means the average yield to maturity for actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (adjusted to constant maturities of ten years); and the term  Thirty Year Average Yield  means the average yield to maturity for actively traded marketable U.S. Treasury fixed interest rate securities (adjusted to constant maturities of thirty years.) 
    
  (3) If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), are enacted that change the percentage of the dividends received deduction (currently 70%) as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision (the  Dividends Received Percentage ), the amount of each dividend payable per share of this Series for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such change shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount of the dividend payable determined as described above (before adjustment) by a factor which shall be the number determined in accordance with the following formula (the  DRD Formula ), and rounding the result to the nearest cent: 
    
  1 - .35(1 - .70)/1 - .35(1 - DRP) 
    
  For the purposes of the DRD Formula,  DRP  means the Dividends Received Percentage applicable to the dividend in question. No amendment to the Code, other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give rise to an adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation shall receive either an unqualified opinion of independent recognized tax counsel or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not apply to dividends payable on shares of this Series, then any such amendment  

shall not result in the adjustment provided for pursuant to the DRD Formula. The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable as so adjusted and as certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the Corporation shall be final and not subject to review. 
    
  If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage is enacted after a dividend payable on a Dividend Payment Date has been declared, the amount of dividend payable on such Dividend Payment Date will not be increased; but instead, an amount, equal to the excess of (x) the product of the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the DRD Formula would be equal to the reduced Dividends Received Percentage) and (y) the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend 
  Payment Date, will be payable to holders of record on the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date in addition to any other amounts payable on such date. 
    
  (4) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the Preferred Stock of any series ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to this Series for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment 
  on this Series for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of this Series and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series, all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on this Series and such other preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other preferred stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of this Series shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stocks, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on this Series. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on this Series which may be in arrears. 
    
  (5) So long as any shares of this Series are outstanding, no dividend (other than a dividend in Common Stock or in any other stock ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation and other than as provided in subsection (4) of this Section (b)) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon the Common Stock or upon any other stock ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock nor any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of this Series shall have been paid for all past dividend payment periods. 
    
  (6) Dividends payable on this Series for any period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (c)   Redemption  . 
    
  (1) (A) The shares of this Series shall not be redeemable prior to April 1, 2006. On and after April 1, 2006, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of this Series, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price or $250 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. 
    
  (B) In the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed pursuant to subsection (1)(A), the number of shares to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Board or by any other method as may be determined by the Board in its sole discretion to be equitable. 
    
  (2) (A) Notwithstanding subsection (1) above, if the Dividends Received Percentage is equal to or less than 40% and, as a result, the amount of dividends on the shares of this Series payable on any Dividend Payment Date will be or is adjusted upwards as described in Section (b)(2) above, the Corporation, at its Option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the outstanding shares of this Series; provided, that within sixty days of the date on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage to 40% or less, the Corporation sends notice to holders of shares of this Series of such redemption in accordance with subsection (3) below. 

(B) Any redemption of this Series in accordance with this subsection (2) shall be at the applicable redemption price set forth in the following table, in each case plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) thereon to the date fixed for redemption, including any changes in dividends payable due to changes in the Dividends Received Percentage. 

(3) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of this Series pursuant to subsections (1) or (2) above, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the 
  stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date. 
    
  (4) Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) dividends on the shares of this Series so called for redemption under either subsection (1) or (2) above shall cease to accrue, and said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price. In case fewer than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof. 
    
  (5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section (c), if any dividends on this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of this Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of this Series. 
    
  (d)   Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (1) Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive and be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or on any other class of stock ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, the amount of $250 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
  (2) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property or business of the Corporation nor the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section (d). 
    
  (3) After the payment to the holders of the shares of this Series of the full preferential amounts provided for in this Section (d), the holders of this Series as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation. 
    
  (4) In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the holders of shares of this Series upon any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Section (d), no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of this Series upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of this Series, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up. 

(e)   Conversion or Exchange  . The holders of shares of this Series shall not have any rights herein to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (f)   Voting  . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers, either general or special, except that: 
    
  (1) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series shall vote together as a separate class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating the amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any Certificate of the Voting Powers, Designations, Preferences and Relative, Participating, Optional or Other Special Rights, and the Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, or any similar document relating to any series of Preferred Stock) which would adversely affect the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of this Series; 
    
  (2) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series and all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Stock shall vote together as a single class without regard to series, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting, increasing or validating the creation, authorization or issue of any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking prior to the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, or the reclassification of any authorized stock of the Corporation into any such prior shares, or the creation, authorization or issue of any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such prior shares. 
    
  (3) If, at the time of any annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, a default in preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation (other than any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock expressly entitled to elect additional directors to the Board by a vote separate and distinct from the vote provided for in this paragraph (3) ( Voting Preferred )) shall exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be increased by two (without duplication of any increase made pursuant to the terms of any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock other than any Voting Preferred) and the holders of the Corporation's preferred stock of all classes and series (other than any such Voting Preferred) shall have the right at such meeting, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock and the Voting Preferred, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships. Such right shall continue until there are no dividends in arrears upon shares of any class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock ranking prior to or on a parity with shares of this Series as to dividends (other than any Voting Preferred). Each director elected by the holders of shares of any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock in an election provided for by this paragraph (3) (herein called a  Preferred Director ) shall continue to serve as such director for the full term for which he shall have been elected, notwithstanding that prior to the end of such term a default in preference dividends shall cease to exist. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for such director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at a meeting of the stockholders, or of the holders of shares of the Corporation's preferred stock, called for that purpose. So long as a default in any preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall exist (other than any Voting Preferred) (A) any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (B)) by an instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation and (B) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for the removed director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid shall be deemed for all purposes hereto to be a Preferred Director. 
    
  Whenever the term of office of the Preferred Directors shall end and a default in preference dividends shall no longer exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be reduced by two. For purposes hereof, a  default in preference dividends  on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred whenever the amount of accrued dividends upon such class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock shall be equivalent to six full quarterly dividends or more, and, having so occurred, such default shall be deemed to exist thereafter until, but only until, all accrued dividends on all such shares of the Corporation's preferred stock of each and every series then Outstanding (other than any Voting Preferred or shares of any class or series ranking junior to shares of this Series as to dividends) shall have been paid to the end of the last preceding quarterly dividend period. 

(4) Without limiting the foregoing, under any circumstances in which the Series would have additional rights under Rhode Island law if the Corporation were incorporated under the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (rather than the Delaware General Corporation Law), holders of shares of the Series shall be entitled to such rights, including, without limitation, voting rights under Chapter 7-1.1-55, voting and notice rights under Chapter 7-1.1-67 and dissenters' rights under Chapters 7-1.1-73 and 7-1.1-74 of the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (as such Chapters may be amended from time to time). 
    
  (g)   Reacquired Shares  . Shares of this Series which have been issued and reacquired through redemption or purchase shall, upon compliance with an applicable provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued but only as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board. 
    
  (h)   Relation to Existing Preferred Classes of Stock  . Shares of this Series are equal in rank and preference with all other series of the Preferred Stock (other than the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C) outstanding on the date of original issue of the shares of this Series and are senior in rank and preference to the Common Stock and the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C of the Corporation. 
    
  (i)   Relation to Other Preferred Classes of Stock  . For purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or classes of the 
  Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (1) prior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of this Series; 
    
  (2) on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates or redemption or liquidation prices per share or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of this Series, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of this Series; and 
    
  (3) junior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such class or classes. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designation to be duly executed by James H. Hance, Jr., its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and attested to by Rachel R. Cummings, its Corporate Secretary, and has caused the corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 26th day of March, 2004. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By:     
    /s/ James H. Hance, Jr. 
        
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 

ATTEST: 

/s/ Rachel R. Cummings 
      
      Corporate Secretary 

(Corporate Seal) 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
    
   OF 
    
  6.75% PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  (Pursuant to Section 151 of the Delaware Corporation Law) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the  Board of Directors ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on January 28, 2004: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, without par value (the  Preferred Stock ) and hereby states the designation and number thereof and fixes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  (a)   Designation  . The designation of the series of Preferred Stock shall be  6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock  (hereinafter called this  Series ) and the number of shares constituting this Series is Six Hundred Ninety Thousand (690,000). 
    
  (b)   Dividend Rate  . 
    
  (1) The holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive dividends thereon at a rate of 6.75% per annum computed on the basis of an issue price thereof of $250 per share, and no more, payable quarterly out of the funds of the Corporation legally available for the payment of dividends. Such dividends shall be cumulative from the date of original issue of such shares and shall be payable, when, as and if declared by the Board, on January 15, April 15, July 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing April 15, 2004 (a  Dividend Payment Date ). Each such dividend shall be paid to the holders of record of shares of this Series as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record date, not exceeding 30 days preceding the payment date thereof, as shall be fixed by the Board. Dividends on account of arrears for any past quarters may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date, to holders of record on such date, not exceeding 45 days preceding the payment date thereof, as may be fixed by the Board. 
    
  (2) If one or more amendments to the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), are enacted that change the percentage of the dividends received deduction (currently 70%) as specified in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision (the  Dividends Received Percentage ), the amount of each dividend payable per share of this Series for dividend payments made on or after the date of enactment of such change shall be adjusted by multiplying the amount of the dividend payable determined as described above (before adjustment) by a factor which shall be the number determined in accordance with the following formula (the  DRD Formula ), and rounding the result to the nearest cent: 
    
  1 - .35(1 - .70)/1 - .35(1 - DRP) 
    
  For the purposes of the DRD Formula,  DRP  means the Dividends Received Percentage applicable to the dividend in question. No amendment to the Code, other than a change in the percentage of the dividends received deduction set forth in Section 243(a)(1) of the Code or any successor provision, will give rise to an adjustment. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, in the event that, with respect to any such amendment, the Corporation shall receive either an unqualified opinion of independent recognized tax counsel or a private letter ruling or similar form of authorization from the Internal Revenue Service to the effect that such an amendment would not apply to dividends payable on shares of this Series, then any such amendment shall not result in the adjustment provided for pursuant to the DRD Formula. The Corporation's calculation of the dividends payable as so adjusted and as certified accurate as to calculation and reasonable as to method by the independent certified public accountants then regularly engaged by the Corporation shall be final and not subject to review. 
    
  If any amendment to the Code which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage is enacted after a dividend payable on a Dividend Payment Date has been declared, the amount of dividend payable on such Dividend Payment Date will not be increased; but instead, an amount, equal to the excess of (x) the product of the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date and the DRD Formula (where the DRP used in the DRD Formula would be equal to the reduced Dividends Received Percentage) and (y) the dividends paid by the Corporation on such Dividend Payment Date, will be payable to holders of record on the next succeeding Dividend Payment Date in addition to any other amounts payable on such date. 

(3) No full dividends shall be declared or paid or set apart for payment on the Preferred Stock of any series ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with or junior to this Series for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set apart for such payment on this Series for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of this Series and any other preferred stock ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series, all dividends declared upon shares of this Series and any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with this Series shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on this Series and such other preferred stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of this Series and such other preferred stock bear to each other. Holders of shares of this Series shall not be entitled to any dividend, whether payable in cash, property or stocks, in excess of full cumulative dividends, as herein provided, on this Series. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on this Series which may be in arrears. 
    
  (4) So long as any shares of this Series are outstanding, no dividend (other than a dividend in Common Stock or in any other stock ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation and other than as provided in subsection (3) of this Section (b)) shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment or other distribution declared or made upon the Common Stock or upon any other stock ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, nor shall any Common Stock nor any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to or on a parity with this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any moneys be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any shares of any such stock) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for stock of the Corporation ranking junior to this Series as to dividends and upon liquidation) unless, in each case, the full cumulative dividends on all outstanding shares of this Series shall have been paid for all past dividend payment periods. 
    
  (5) Dividends payable on this Series for any period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (c)   Redemption  . 
    
  (1) (A) The shares of this Series shall not be redeemable prior to April 15, 2006. On and after April 15, 2006, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of this Series, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a redemption price of $250 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to the date fixed for redemption. 
    
  (B) In the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of this Series are to be redeemed pursuant to subsection (1)(A), the number of shares to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or pro rata as may be determined by the Board or by any other method as may be determined by the Board in its sole discretion to be equitable. 
    
  (2) (A) Notwithstanding subsection (1) above, if the Dividends Received Percentage is equal to or less than 
  40% and, as a result, the amount of dividends on the shares of this Series payable on any Dividend Payment Date will be or is adjusted upwards as described in Section (b)(2) above, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem all, but not less than all, of the outstanding shares of this Series; provided, that within sixty days of the date on which an amendment to the Code is enacted which reduces the Dividends Received Percentage to 40% or less, the Corporation sends notice to holders of shares of this Series of such redemption in accordance with subsection (3) below. 
    
  (B) Any redemption of the Perpetual Preferred Stock in accordance with this subsection (2) shall be at the applicable redemption price set forth in the following table, in each case plus accrued and unpaid dividends (whether or not declared) thereon to the date fixed for redemption, including any changes in dividends payable due to changes in the Dividends Received Percentage. 

(3) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of this Series pursuant to subsections (1) or (2) above, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the 
  stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of this Series to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on such redemption date. 
    
  (4) Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) dividends on the shares of this Series so called for redemption under either subsection (1) or (2) above shall cease to accrue, and said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. Upon surrender in accordance with said notice of the certificates for any shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price. In case fewer than all the shares represented by any such certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without cost to the holder thereof. 
    
  (5) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section (c), if any dividends on this Series are in arrears, no shares of this Series shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of this Series are simultaneously redeemed, and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any shares of this Series; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not prevent the purchase or acquisition of shares of this Series pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding shares of this Series. 
    
  (d)   Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (1) Upon the dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the shares of this Series shall be entitled to receive and be paid out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to its stockholders, before any payment or distribution shall be made on the Common Stock or on any other class of stock ranking junior to the shares of this Series upon liquidation, the amount of $250 per share, plus a sum equal to all dividends (whether or not earned or declared) on such shares accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution. 
    
  (2) Neither the sale of all or substantially all the property or business of the Corporation nor the merger or consolidation of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or the merger or consolidation of any other corporation into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a dissolution, liquidation or winding up, voluntary or involuntary, for the purposes of this Section (d). 
    
  (3) After the payment to the holders of the shares of this Series of the full preferential amounts provided for in this 
  Section (d), the holders of this Series as such shall have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation. 
    
  (4) In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to the holders of shares of this Series upon any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full all amounts to which such holders are entitled pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Section (d), no such distribution shall be made on account of any shares of any other class or series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with the shares of this Series upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up unless proportionate distributive amounts shall be paid on account of the shares of this Series, ratably, in proportion to the full distributable amounts for which holders of all such parity shares are respectively entitled upon such dissolution, liquidation or winding up. 
    
  (e)   Conversion or Exchange  . The holders of shares of this Series shall not have any rights herein to convert such shares into or exchange such shares for shares of any other class or classes or of any other series of any class or classes of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (f)   Voting  . The shares of this Series shall not have any voting powers, either general or special, except that: 
    
  (1) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series shall vote together as a separate class, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting or validating the amendment, alteration or repeal of any of the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or of any certificate amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto (including any Certificate of the Voting Powers, Designations, Preferences and Relative, Participating,  

Optional or Other Special Rights, and the Qualifications, Limitations or Restrictions thereof, or any similar document relating to any series of Preferred Stock) which would adversely affect the preferences, rights, powers or privileges of this Series; 
    
  (2) Unless the vote or consent of the holders of a greater number of shares shall then be required by law, the consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of all of the shares of this Series and all other series of Preferred Stock ranking on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, at the time outstanding, given in person or by proxy, either in writing or by a vote at a meeting called for the purpose at which the holders of shares of this Series and such other series of Preferred Stock shall vote together as a single class without regard to series, shall be necessary for authorizing, effecting, increasing or validating the creation, authorization or issue of any shares of any class of stock of the Corporation ranking prior to the shares of this Series as to dividends or upon liquidation, or the reclassification of any authorized stock of the Corporation into any such prior shares, or the creation, authorization or issue of any obligation or security convertible, into or evidencing the right to purchase any such prior shares. 
    
  (3) If, at the time of any annual meeting of stockholders for the election of directors, a default in preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation (other than any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock expressly entitled to elect additional directors to the Board by a vote separate and distinct from the vote provided for in this paragraph (3) ( Voting Preferred )) shall exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be increased by two (without duplication of any increase made pursuant to the terms of any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock other than any Voting Preferred) and the holders of the Corporation's preferred stock of all classes and series (other than any such Voting Preferred) shall have the right at such meeting, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock and the Voting Preferred, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships. Such right shall continue until there are no dividends in arrears upon shares of any class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock ranking prior to or on a parity with shares of this Series as to dividends (other than any Voting Preferred). Each director elected by the holders of shares of any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock in an election provided for by this paragraph (3) (herein called a  Preferred Director ) shall continue to serve as such director for the full term for which he shall have been elected, notwithstanding that prior to the end of such term a default in preference dividends shall cease to exist. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for such director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at a meeting of the stockholders, or of the holders of shares of the Corporation's preferred stock, called for that purpose. So long as a default in any preference dividends on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall exist (other than any Voting Preferred) (A) any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (B)) by an instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation and (B) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding shares of the Corporation's preferred stock entitled to have originally voted for the removed director's election, voting together as a single class without regard to class or series, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid shall be deemed for all purposes hereto to be a Preferred Director. 
    
  Whenever the term of office of the Preferred Directors shall end and a default in preference dividends shall no longer exist, the number of directors constituting the Board shall be reduced by two. For purposes hereof, a  default in preference dividends  on any series of the Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have occurred whenever the amount of accrued dividends upon such class or series of the Corporation's preferred stock shall be equivalent to six full quarterly dividends or more, and, having so occurred, such default shall be deemed to exist thereafter until, but only until, all accrued dividends on all such shares of the Corporation's preferred stock of each and every series then outstanding (other than any Voting Preferred or shares of any class or series ranking junior to shares of this Series as to dividends) shall have been paid to the end of the last preceding quarterly dividend period. 
    
  (4) Without limiting the foregoing, under any circumstances in which the Series would have additional rights under Rhode Island law if the Corporation were incorporated under the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (rather than the Delaware General Corporation Law), holders of shares of the Series shall be entitled to such rights, including, without limitation, voting rights under Chapter 7-1.1-55, voting and notice rights under Chapter 7-1.1-67 and dissenters' rights under Chapters 7-1.1-73 and 7-1.1-74 of the Rhode Island Business Corporation Act (as such Chapters may be amended from time to time). 
    
  (g)   Reacquired Shares  . Shares of this Series which have been issued and reacquired through redemption or purchase shall, upon compliance with an applicable provision of the Delaware General Corporation Law, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued but only as part of a new series of Preferred Stock to be created by resolution or resolutions of the Board. 

(h)   Relation to Existing Preferred Classes of Stock  . Shares of this Series are equal in rank and preference with all other series of the Preferred Stock (other than the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C) outstanding on the date of original issue of the shares of this Series and are senior in rank and preference to the Common Stock and the ESOP Convertible Preferred Stock, Series C of the Corporation. 
    
  (i)   Relation to Other Preferred Classes of Stock  . For purposes of this resolution, any stock of any class or classes of the 
  Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (1) prior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if the holders of such class or classes shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of this Series; 
    
  (2) on a parity with shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates or redemption or liquidation prices per share or sinking fund provisions, if any, be different from those of this Series, if the holders of such stock shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates or liquidation prices, without preference or priority, one over the other, as between the holders of such stock and the holders of shares of this Series; and 
    
  (3) junior to the shares of this Series, either as to dividends or upon liquidation, if such class shall be Common Stock or if the holders of shares of this Series shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such class or classes. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designation to be duly executed by James H. Hance, Jr., its Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer, and attested to by Rachel R. Cummings, its Corporate Secretary, and has caused the corporate seal to be affixed hereto, this 26th day of March, 2004. 
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ James H. Hance, Jr. 
        
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 

ATTEST: 

/s/ Rachel R. Cummings 
      
      Corporate Secretary 

(Corporate Seal) 

CERTIFICATE OF MERGER 
  OF 
  FLEETBOSTON FINANCIALCORPORATION 
  INTO 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  In accordance with Section 252 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( Bank of America ), does hereby certify as follows: 
    
  FIRST: That the name and state of incorporation of each of the constituent corporations of the merger herein certified are as follows: 
                   Name 
      
    State of Incorporation 
      FleetBoston Financial Corporation 
      
    Rhode Island 
      Bank of America Corporation 
      
    Delaware 

SECOND: That an Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 27, 2003, by and between FleetBoston Financial Corporation ( FleetBoston ), a Rhode Island Corporation, and Bank of America, was approved, adopted, certified, executed and acknowledged by each of the constituent corporations in accordance with the requirements of Section 252 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 
    
  THIRD: That Bank of America will continue as the surviving corporation. 
    
  FOURTH: That the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bank of America at the effective time of the merger shall be the certificate of incorporation of the surviving corporation. 
    
  FIFTH: That a copy of the executed Agreement and Plan of Merger is on file at the offices of the surviving corporation at Bank of America Corporate Center, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 
    
  SIXTH: That a copy of the Agreement and Plan of Merger will be furnished by Bank of America, on request and without cost, to any stockholder of any constituent corporation. 
    
  SEVENTH: The authorized capital stock of FleetBoston consisted of 2,000,000,000 shares of Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share, and 16,000,000 shares of Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value per share, of which 690,000 shares were designated as Series VI 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock and 805,000 shares were designated as Series VII Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock. 
    
  EIGHTH: This Certificate of Merger shall become effective on April 1, 2004 at 12:01 a.m., Eastern Time. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America has caused this Certificate of Merger to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 31  st   day of March, 2004. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ James H. Hance, Jr. 
      Name: 
    James H. Hance, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Chief Financial Officer 

CERTIFICATE OF MERGER 
    
  OF 
    
  MBNA CORPORATION 
  (a Maryland corporation) 
    
  with and into 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
  (a Delaware corporation) 
    
  Pursuant to Section 252 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  DGCL ), Bank of America Corporation, a Delaware corporation ( Bank of America ), hereby certifies the following information relating to the merger of MBNA Corporation, a Maryland corporation ( MBNA ), with and into Bank of America (the  Merger ): 

FIRST: 
    The name and state of incorporation of each of the constituent corporations (the  Constituent Corporations ) in the Merger are: 
        
    Name: 
      
    State of Incorporation 
        
    Bank of America Corporation 
      
    Delaware 
        
    MBNA Corporation 
      
    Maryland 
      SECOND: 
    The Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of June 30, 2005, by and between MBNA and Bank of America (the  Plan of Merger ), setting forth the terms and conditions of the Merger has been approved, adopted, certified, executed and acknowledged by each of the Constituent Corporations in accordance with the requirements of Section 252 of the DGCL. 
      THIRD: 
    The name of the surviving corporation of the Merger (the  Surviving Corporation ) is Bank of America 
  Corporation. 
      FOURTH: 
    The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Bank of America in effect immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation. 
      FIFTH: 
    The executed Plan of Merger is on file at the principal place of business of the Surviving Corporation at 
  Bank of America Corporate Center, 100 N. Tryon Street, Charlotte, North Carolina 28255. 
      SIXTH: 
    A copy of the Plan of Merger will be furnished by the Surviving Corporation, on request and without cost, to any stockholder of either Constituent Corporation. 
      SEVENTH: 
    The authorized capital stock of MBNA consisted of 1,500,000,000 shares of 

common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and 20,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share. 
      EIGHTH: 
    The Merger shall become effective as of 12:01 a.m., Eastern time, on January 1, 2006. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America has caused this Certificate of Merger to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 29  th   day of December, 2005. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ WILLIAM J. MOSTYN 
      Name: 
    William J. Mostyn 
      Title: 
    Secretary 

CERT  IFICATE OF ELIMINATION 
  OF 
  FIXED/ADJUSTABLE RATE CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK 
  AND 
  6.75% PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 15(g) 
  of the General Corporation Law 
  of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151(g) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  DGCL ), hereby certifies as follows: 
    
  1. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the DGCL and the authority granted in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company (the  Certificate of Incorporation ), the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ), by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 805,000 shares of Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock ), and established the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on March 29, 2004, filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the  Secretary of State ). 
    
  2. That, pursuant to Section 151 of the DGCL and the authority granted in the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board, by resolution duly adopted, authorized the issuance of a series of 690,000 shares of 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, without par value (the  Perpetual Preferred Stock ), and established the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, and, on March 29, 2004, filed a Certificate of Designation with respect to such Perpetual Preferred Stock in the office of the Secretary of State. 
    
  3. That on May 26, 2006 the Special Preferred Stock Committee of the Board (the  Committee ) authorized and approved the redemption of the issued and outstanding shares of Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock on July 3, 2006 and the redemption of the Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock on July 14, 2006. 
    
  4. That all of the issued and outstanding shares of Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock were redeemed on July 3, 2006 and all of the issued and outstanding shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock were redeemed on July 14, 2006, and, therefore, no shares of Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock or Perpetual Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to such Certificates of Designation. 
    
  5. That the Board has adopted the following resolutions: 
    
  WHEREAS, by resolution of the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) and by a Certificate of Designation filed in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware (the  Secretary of State ) on March 29, 2004, this Company authorized the issuance of a series of 805,000 shares of Fixed/Adjustable Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company (the  Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock ) and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof; and 
    
  WHEREAS, by resolution of the Board and by a Certificate of Designation filed in the office of the Secretary of State on March 29, 2004, this Company authorized the issuance of a series of 690,000 shares of 6.75% Perpetual Preferred Stock, without par value, of the Company (the  Perpetual Preferred Stock ) and established the voting powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating and other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof; 
    
  WHEREAS, on May 26, 2006, the Special Preferred Stock Committee of the Board (the  Committee ) authorized and approved the redemption of all the issued and outstanding shares of the Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock on July 3, 2006 and the Perpetual Preferred Stock on July 14, 2006; 
    
  WHEREAS, all of the issued and outstanding shares of Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock were redeemed on July 3, 2006 and all issued and outstanding shares of Perpetual Preferred Stock were redeemed on July 14, 2006, and, therefore, no shares of Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock or Perpetual Preferred Stock are outstanding and no shares thereof will be issued subject to such Certificates of Designation; 

WHEREAS, it is desirable that all matters set forth in the Certificates of Designation with respect to such Fixed/ Adjustable Preferred Stock and Perpetual Preferred Stock be eliminated from the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended, of the Company (the  Certificate of Incorporation ). 
    
  NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT AND IT HEREBY IS: 
    
  RESOLVED, that all matters set forth in the Certificates of Designation with respect to such Fixed/Adjustable 
  Preferred Stock and Perpetual Preferred Stock be eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation; and it is further 
    
  RESOLVED, that the officers of the Company be, and hereby are, authorized and directed to file a Certificate with the office of the Secretary of State setting forth a copy of these resolutions whereupon all matters set forth in the Certificates of Designation with respect to such Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock and Perpetual Preferred Stock shall be eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation; and it is further 
    
  RESOLVED, that the officers of the Corporation be, and each of them hereby is, authorized and directed, for and on behalf of the Corporation, to take any and all actions, to perform all such acts and things, to execute, file, deliver or record in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, all such certificates, instruments, agreements or other documents, and to make all such payments as they, in their judgment, or in the judgment of any one or more of them, may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate in order to carry out the purpose and intent of the foregoing resolutions and the transactions contemplated therein or thereby, the authorization therefor to be conclusively evidenced by the taking of such action or the execution and delivery of such certificates, instruments, agreements or documents. 
    
  6. That, accordingly, all matters set forth in the Certificates of Designation with respect to such Fixed/Adjustable Preferred Stock and Perpetual Preferred Stock be, and hereby are, eliminated from the Certificate of Incorporation, as heretofore amended. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officer as of this 31st day of July, 2006. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ Teresa M. Brenner 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF 
  6.204% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At a meeting duly convened and held on July 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
    
  2. Thereafter, on September 6, 2006, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent: 
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in Exhibit A hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 13th day of September, 2006. 

BANKAMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A  
  TO 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  6.204% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES D  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D  (the    Series D Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series D Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series D Preferred Stock. Series D Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be 34,500. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series D Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series D Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
   Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
    
   Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
    
   Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a)hereof. 
    
   DTC    means The Depositary Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series D Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B and (b) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series D Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series D Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series D Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 

Section 4. Dividends. 
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series D Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 14, June 14, September 14 and December 14; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series D Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series D Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 6.204%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series D Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series D Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series D Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. 
    
  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series D Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series D Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a pro rate basis among the holders of the shares of Series D Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock. For purposes of calculating the pro rate allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series D Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series D Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 

Section 5. Liquidation Rights  . 
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series D Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
  (b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series D Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid of Series D Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series D Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6. Redemption  . 
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on September 14, 2011, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 
    
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series D Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series D Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series D Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series D Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series D Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series D Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series D Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series D Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 

(d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
  Section 7. Voting Rights  . 
  (a) General.   The holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
  (b) Special Voting Right. 
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series D Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a    Preferred Director . 
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series D Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series D Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the  

office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series D Preferred Stock 
  and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series D Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series D Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series D Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series D Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series D Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series D Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series D Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series D Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series D Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF 
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES E OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At a meeting duly convened and held on July 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
  2. Thereafter, on October 30, 2006, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent: 
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in Exhibit A hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 3rd day of November, 2006. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A 
  TO 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  OF 
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES E 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation.   The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E  (the    Series E Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series E Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series E Preferred Stock. Series E Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares.   The number of authorized shares of Series E Preferred Stock shall be 85,100. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series E Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series E Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions.   As used herein with respect to Series E Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series E Preferred Stock. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series E Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 
  6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D and (c) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series E Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series E Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series E Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 

Telerate Page 3750    means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
     Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 A.M., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series E Preferred Stock been outstanding. The calculation agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series E Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4. Dividends. 
    
  (a) Rate.   Holders of Series E Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series E Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series E Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series E Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (i) Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.35% and (ii) 4.00%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series E Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends.   Dividends on shares of Series E Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series E Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series E Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series E Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c) Priority of Dividends.   So long as any share of Series E Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of  

other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series E Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series E Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series E Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series E Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series E Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a pro rate basis among the holders of the shares of Series E Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series E Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series E Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series E Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5. Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a) Liquidation.   In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the 
  Corporation, holders of Series E Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any 
  distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series E Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series E Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b) Partial Payment.   If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series E Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series E Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid of Series E Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c) Residual Distributions.   If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series E Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation.   For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6. Redemption. 
    
  (a) Optional Redemption.   The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series E Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on November 15, 2011, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series E Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 

(b) Notice of Redemption.   Notice of every redemption of shares of Series E Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series E Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series E Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series E Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series E Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption.   In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series E Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series E Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series E Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series E Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series E Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d) Effectiveness of Redemption.   If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7. Voting Rights. 
    
  (a) General.   The holders of Series E Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
    
  (b) Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series E Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series E Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series E Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such  

director elected by the holders of shares of Series E Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series E Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series E Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series E Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series E Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series E Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series E Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series E Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series E Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series E Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series E Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series E Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series E Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion.   The holders of Series E Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series E Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank.   Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series E Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series E Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase.   Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series E Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares.   Shares of Series E Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund.   Shares of Series E Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  OF 
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES F 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At a meeting duly convened and held on April 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
  2. Thereafter, on February 12, 2007, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:    RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in Exhibit A hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 15th day of February, 2007. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A 
  TO 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES F  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F  (the    Series F Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series F Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series F Preferred Stock. Series F Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be 7,001. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series F Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series F Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series F Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series F Preferred Stock. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.   
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series F Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 
  6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G and (e) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series F Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series F Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 

Series F Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
     Telerate Page 3750    means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
     Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series F Preferred Stock been outstanding. The Calculation Agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series F Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4. Dividends. 
    
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series F Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series F Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share for each Dividend Period (1) from the date of issuance to, but excluding, the Dividend Payment Date in March 2012 (if issued prior to that date) at a rate per annum equal to Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.40% and (2) thereafter at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (i) Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.40% and (ii) 4.00%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series F Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series F Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series F Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased,  

redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series F Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series F Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series F Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series F Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series F Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series F Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series F Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5. Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series F Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series F Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series F Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid of Series F Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series F Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, then the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6. Redemption  . 
    
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of  

Series F Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the later of March 15, 2012 and the date of original issuance of the Series F Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date. 
    
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 15 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series F Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series F Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series F Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series F Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series F Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series F Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series F Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series F Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series F Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7. Voting Rights  . The holders of the Series F Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law. 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series F Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series F Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series F Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series F Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series F Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the  

Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series F Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series F Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  ADJUSTABLE RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At a meeting duly convened and held on April 26, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
  2. Thereafter, on February 12, 2007, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:  
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in Exhibit A hereto, which is incorporated herein by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 15th day of February, 2007. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A  
  TO 
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  ADJUSTABLE RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES G  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G  (the    Series G Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series G Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series G Preferred Stock. Series G Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall be 8,501. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series G Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series G Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series G Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series G Preferred Stock. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.  
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series G Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 
  6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F and (e) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series G Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series G Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 

Series G Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
     Telerate Page 3750    means the display page so designated on the Moneyline/Telerate Service (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
     Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Telerate Page 3750 as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Telerate Page 3750, Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had Series G Preferred Stock been outstanding. The Calculation Agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series G Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4. Dividends  . 
    
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share of Series G Preferred Stock, and no more, payable as follows: (i) if the Series G Preferred Stock is issued prior to March 15, 2012, semi- annually in arrears on each March 15 and September 15 through March 15, 2012; and (ii) from and including the later of March 15, 2012 and the date of issuance, quarterly in arrears on each March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series G Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series G Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share for each Dividend Period (1) from the date of issuance to, but excluding, the Dividend Payment Date in March 2012 (if issued prior to that date) at a rate per annum equal to 5.63% and (2) thereafter at a rate per annum equal to the greater of (x) Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 0.40% and (y) 4.00%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock shall be the last Business Day of the calendar month immediately 
  preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series G Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series G Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 

(c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series G Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series G Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series G Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series G Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series G Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series G Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series G Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series G Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5. Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series G Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $100,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series G Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series G Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid of Series G Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series G Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, then the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

Section 6. Redemption  . 
    
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series G Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the later of March 15, 2012 and the date of original issuance of the Series G Preferred Stock, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall be $100,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid plus accrued and unpaid dividends for the then-current Dividend Period to the redemption date. 
    
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 15 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series G Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series G Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series G Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series G Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series G Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series G Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series G Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series G Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7. Voting Rights  . The holders of the Series G Preferred Stock will have no voting rights and will not be entitled to elect any directors, except as expressly provided by law. 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series G Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series G Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series G Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series G Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series G Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series G Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series G Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF 
  6.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At a meeting duly convened and held on January 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
  2. Thereafter, on September 20, 2007, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:  
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 25th day of September, 2007. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A  
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  OF 
  6.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES I  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I  (the    Series I Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series I Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series I Preferred Stock. Series I Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be 25,300. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series I Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series I Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series I Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.    Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series I Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 
  6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding), (e) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding) and (f) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series I Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series I Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series I Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
  Section 4. Dividends  . 
    
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series I Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 1, April 1, July 1, and October 1; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on  

the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series I Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series I Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 6.625%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series I Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series I Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series I Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series I Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series I Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series I Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series I Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series I Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series I Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series I Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series I Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5. Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series I Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 

(b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series I Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid of Series I Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series I Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6. Redemption  . 
    
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on October 1, 2017, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 
    
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series I Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series I Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series I Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series I Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series I Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series I Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series I Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series I Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no  

claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7. Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a) General.   The holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
    
  (b) Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series I Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series I Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series I Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series I Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director.  
    
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series I Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series I Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series I Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series I Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series I Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series I Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series I Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series I Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series I Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non- payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the board of directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series I Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent  

voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series I Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series I Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series I Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series I Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series I Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series I Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued 
  and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series I Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF 
  7.25% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At a meeting duly convened and held on January 24, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
  2. Thereafter, on November 14, 2007, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:  
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as   Exhibit A  , which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 19th day of November, 2007. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A CERTIFICATE OF  
    
  DESIGNATIONS OF 
    
  7.25% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES J  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J  (the    Series J Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series J Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series J Preferred Stock. Series J Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be 41,400. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series J Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series J Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series J Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding), (e) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding), (f) the Corporation's 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I and (g) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series J Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series J Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series J Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
  Section 4. Dividends  . 
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series J Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1; provided,  

however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series J Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series J Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 7.25%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series J Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series J Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series J Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series J Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series J Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series J Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series J Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series J Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series J Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series J Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5. Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series J Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 

(b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series J Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series J Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6. Redemption  . 
    
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on November 1, 2012, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 
    
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series J Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series J Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series J Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series J Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series J Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series J Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series J Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series J Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series J Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to  

the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7. Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a) General.   The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
    
  (b) Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series J Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series J Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal, as to any class or series, to at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series J Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series J Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series J Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series J Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series J Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series J Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series J Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series J Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series J Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non- payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately  

terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series J Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series J Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series J Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series J Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series J Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series J Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series J Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series J Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES K  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At meetings duly convened and held on December 11, 2007 and January 23, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
    
  2. Thereafter, on January 25, 2008, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:  
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as   Exhibit A  , which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 28th day of January, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A  
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
    
  OF 
    
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES K  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K  (the    Series K Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series K Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series K Preferred Stock. Series K Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be 240,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series K Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series K Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series K Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below). 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.   
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
    
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series K Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 

Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding), (e) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding), (f) the Corporation's 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) the Corporation's 7.25% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, (h) the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L (if and when issued and outstanding), and (i) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series K Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series K Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series K Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
     Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01 , Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three- Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below). The Calculation Agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series K Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4. Dividends  . 
    
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series K Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on each January 30 and July 30 and (y) for the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series K Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series K Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 8.00%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding,  

January 30, 2018 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 3.63%, for each Dividend Period from January 30, 2018 to the date of redemption of the Series K Preferred Stock (the    Floating Rate Period   ). The record date for payment of dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls. For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. 
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series K Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series K Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
  (c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series K Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series K Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series K Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series K Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series K Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series K Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
  Section 5. Liquidation Rights  . 
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series K Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
  (b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in  

accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series K Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series K Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
  Section 6. Redemption  . 
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on January 30, 2018, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series K Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series K Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series K Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series K Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series K Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series K Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series K Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series K Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series K Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
  (d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the  

Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
  Section 7. Voting Rights  . 
  (a) General.   The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
  (b) Special Voting Right. 
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series K Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series K Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series K Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series K Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series K Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series K Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series K Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series K Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series K Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series K Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series K Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series K Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such  

preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8. Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series K Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series K Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series K Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series K Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series K Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series K Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series K Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  7.25% NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL  
  CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES L  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At meetings duly convened and held on December 11, 2007 and January 23, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
    
  2. Thereafter, on January 28, 2008, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:  
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as   Exhibit A  , which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 28th day of January, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT  
  A CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  7.25% NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES L  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L , $0.01 par value, with a liquidation preference of $1,000 per share (the    Series L Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series L Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series L Preferred Stock. Series L Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be 6,900,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series L Preferred Stock: 
    
     Applicable Conversion Price    at any given time means, for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, the price equal to $1,000 divided by the Applicable Conversion Rate in effect at such time. 
    
   Applicable Conversion Rate  means the Conversion Rate in effect at any given time.  
     Base Price    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d)(i). 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or required by law or regulation to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Closing Price    of the Common Stock on any determination date means the closing sale price or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price of the shares of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on such date. If the Common Stock is not traded on the New York Stock Exchange on any determination date, the Closing Price of the Common Stock on such determination date means the closing sale price as reported in the composite transactions for the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or, if no closing sale price is reported, the last reported sale price on the principal U.S. national or regional securities exchange on which the Common Stock is so listed or quoted, or if the Common Stock is not so listed or quoted on a U.S. national or regional securities exchange, the last quoted bid price for the Common Stock in the over-the-counter market as reported by Pink Sheets LLC or a similar organization, or, if that bid price is not available, the market price of the Common Stock on that date as determined by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Corporation for this purpose. 
    
  For purposes of this Certificate of Designations, all references herein to the  Closing Price  and  last reported sale price  of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange shall be such closing sale price and last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange (http://www.nyse.com) and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service;   provided   that in the event that there is a discrepancy between the closing sale price or last reported sale price as reflected on the website of the New York Stock Exchange and as reported by Bloomberg Professional Service, the closing sale price and last reported sale price on the website of the New York Stock Exchange will govern. 
    
     Common Stock    means the common stock, $0.01 par value, of the Corporation. 
    
     Conversion Agent    shall mean Computershare Trust Company, N.A. and Computershare Inc. collectively acting in their capacity as conversion agent for the Series L Preferred Stock, and their respective successors and assigns. 
    
     Conversion Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(a)(v)(B). 

Conversion Rate    means for each share of Series L Preferred Stock, 20 shares of Common Stock, plus cash in lieu of fractional shares, subject to adjustment as set forth herein. 
    
     Current Market Price    of the Common Stock on any day, means the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the ten consecutive Trading Days ending on the earlier of the day in question and the day before the Ex-Date or other specified date with respect to the issuance or distribution requiring such computation, appropriately adjusted to take into account the occurrence during such period of any event described in Section 7(a)(i) through (vi). 
     Depository    means DTC or its nominee or any successor depository appointed by the Corporation.    Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
   Dividend Threshold Amount  has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a)(v). 
    
   DTC  means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
    
     Exchange Property    has the meaning set forth in Section 8(a). 
    
     Ex-Date  ,  when used with respect to any issuance or distribution, means the first date on which the Common Stock or other securities trade without the right to receive the issuance or distribution. 
    
     Fundamental Change    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(d)(i). 
    
     Holder    means the Person in whose name the shares of Series L Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation, Transfer Agent, Registrar, paying agent and Conversion Agent as the absolute owner of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversions and for all other purposes. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation over which Series L Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition    means the occurrence, prior to any Conversion Date, of one of the following: 
    
  (a) a  person  or  group  within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act files a Schedule TO or any schedule, form, or report under the Exchange Act disclosing that such person or group has become the direct or indirect ultimate  beneficial owner,  as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act, of common equity of the Corporation representing more than 50% of the voting power of the Common Stock; or 
    
  (b) consummation of the Corporation's consolidation or merger or similar transaction or any sale, lease, or other transfer in one transaction or a series of related transactions of all or substantially all of the Corporation's and the Corporation's subsidiaries' consolidated assets, taken as a whole, to any Person other than one of the Corporation's subsidiaries, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property, other than pursuant to a transaction in which the persons that  beneficially owned  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act) directly or indirectly, voting shares immediately prior to such transaction beneficially own, directly or indirectly, voting shares representing a majority of the total voting power of all outstanding classes of voting shares of the continuing or surviving person immediately after the transaction;   provided, however   that a Make-Whole Acquisition will not be deemed to have occurred if at least 90% of the consideration received by holders of the Common Stock in the transaction or transactions consists of shares of common stock or American Depositary Receipts in respect of common stock that are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange or securities exchange in the European Economic Area or that will be so traded when issued or exchanged in connection with a Make-Whole 
  Acquisition. 
    
     Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(c)(i). 
     Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 6(c)(i). 
   Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date  has the meaning set forth in Section 6(c)(i). 

Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price    means the price paid per share of Common Stock in the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition. If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in the Make-Whole Acquisition, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price will be the cash amount paid per share of Common Stock. Otherwise, the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price shall be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on the ten Trading Days up to, but not including, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date. 
    
   Make-Whole Shares  has the meaning set forth in Section 6(c)(i).  
   Nonpayment  has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(i). 
   Notice of Optional Conversion  has the meaning set forth in Section 6(b)(iii).  
   Optional Conversion Date  has the meaning set forth in Section 6(b)(iii). 
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 
  6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding), (e) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding), (f) the Corporation's 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, (h) the Corporation's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K (if and when issued and outstanding) and (i) any other class or series of capital stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on par with the Series L Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Person    means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint- stock company, limited liability company or trust. 
    
   Preferred Director  has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(i). 
    
   Purchased Shares  has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a)(vi) 
    
     Reference Price    means the price paid per share of Common Stock in the event of a Fundamental Change. If the holders of shares of Common Stock receive only cash in the Fundamental Change, the Reference Price shall be the cash amount paid per share. Otherwise, the Reference Price will be the average of the Closing Price per share of Common Stock on the ten Trading Days up to, but not including, the effective date of the Fundamental Change. 
    
     Reorganization Event    has the meaning set forth in Section 8. 
    
     Registrar    means Computershare Trust Company, N.A. or its nominee or any successor or registrar appointed by the 
  Corporation. 
    
     Senior Stock    means any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation authorized which has preference or priority over the Series L Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Series L Preferred Stock  has the meaning set forth in Section 1.  
    
   s  pin-off    has the meaning set forth in Section 7(a)(iv). 
    
     Trading Day    for purposes of determining the VWAP or Closing Price means a day on which the shares of Common 
  Stock: 
    
  (a) are not suspended from trading on any national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the- counter market at the close of business; and 
    
  (b) have traded at least once on the national or regional securities exchange or association or over-the-counter market that is the primary market for the trading of the Common Stock. 
    
     Transfer Agent    means Computershare Trust Company, N.A. acting as Transfer Agent, Registrar, and Conversion Agent for the Series L Preferred Stock, and its successors and assigns. 
     Voting Parity Securities    has the meaning set forth in Section 11(b)(i). 

VWAP    means, per share of the Common Stock on any Trading Day, the per share volume-weighted average price as displayed under the heading  Bloomberg VWAP  on Bloomberg page  BAC UN  equity  AQR  (or its equivalent successor if such page is not available) in respect of the period from the open of trading on the relevant Trading Day until the close of trading on the relevant Trading Day (or if such volume-weighted average price is unavailable, the market price of one share of the Common Stock on such trading days determined, using a volume-weighted average method, by a nationally recognized investment banking firm (unaffiliated with the Corporation) retained for this purpose by the Corporation). 
    
  Section 4. Dividends  . 
    
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board, but only out of assets legally available under Delaware law for payment, non- cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share of Series L Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each January 30, April 30, July 30 and October 30 of each year, beginning on April 30, 2008; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from and including the date of issuance of the Series L Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to but excluding the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period   . Dividends on each share of Series L Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 7.25%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the relevant Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. Dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock will cease to accrue after conversion, as described below. If the Corporation issues additional shares of the Series L Preferred Stock, dividends on those additional shares will accrue from the preceding scheduled Dividend Payment Date at the dividend rate. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. Accordingly, if for any reason the Board or a duly authorized committee of the Board does not declare a dividend on the Series L Preferred Stock for a Dividend Period prior to the related Dividend Payment Date, that dividend will not accrue, and the Corporation will have no obligation to pay a dividend for that Dividend Period on the Dividend Payment Date or at any time in the future, whether or not the Board or a duly authorized committee of the Board declares a dividend on the Series L Preferred Stock or any other series of the Corporation's preferred stock or Common Stock for any future Dividend Period. 
    
  (c) Dividend Stopper  . So long as any share of Series L Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock), (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series L Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, during a Dividend Period, unless, in each case, the full dividends for the then-current Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has 
  been set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreements) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series L Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but does not make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. The Corporation is not obligated to and will not pay Holders of the Series L Preferred Stock any interest or sum of money in lieu of interest on any dividend not paid on a Dividend Payment Date. The Corporation is not obligated to and will not pay Holders of the Series L Preferred Stock any dividend in excess of the dividends  

on the Series L Preferred Stock that are payable as described herein. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
  Section 5. Right to Convert  . Each Holder shall have the right, at such Holder's option, at any time, to convert all or any portion of such Holder's Series L Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock at the Applicable Conversion Rate (subject to the conversion procedures set forth in Section 6 herein) plus cash in lieu of fractional shares. 
  Section 6. Conversion  . 
  (a) Conversion Procedures  . 
  (i) Effective immediately prior to the close of business on the Optional Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date, dividends shall no longer be declared on any converted shares of Series L Preferred Stock and such shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the right of Holders to receive any declared and unpaid dividends on such shares and any other payments to which they are otherwise entitled pursuant to Section 5, Section 6 (b), Section 6(c), Section 6(d), Section 8 or Section 12 hereof, as applicable. 
    
  (ii) Prior to the close of business on the Optional Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date, shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion of, or other securities issuable upon conversion of, any shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be deemed outstanding for any purpose, and Holders shall have no rights with respect to the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion (including voting rights, rights to respond to tender offers for the Common Stock and rights to receive any dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock or other securities issuable upon conversion) by virtue of holding shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (iii) Shares of Series L Preferred Stock duly converted in accordance with the terms hereof, or otherwise reacquired by the Corporation, will resume the status of authorized and unissued preferred stock, undesignated as to series and available for future issuance. The Corporation may from time-to-time take such appropriate action as may be necessary to reduce the authorized number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (iv) The Person or Persons entitled to receive the Common Stock and/or securities issuable upon conversion of Series L Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as the record holder(s) of such shares of Common Stock and/or securities as of the close of business on the Optional Conversion Date or any applicable Conversion Date. In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock and/or cash, securities or other property (including payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock should be registered or paid or the manner in which such shares should be delivered, the Corporation shall be entitled to register and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and in the manner shown on the records of the Corporation or, in the case of global certificates, through book-entry transfer through the Depository. 
    
  (v) Conversion into shares of Common Stock will occur on the Optional Conversion Date or any applicable 
  Conversion Date as follows: 
    
  (A) On the Optional Conversion Date, certificates representing shares of Common Stock shall be issued and delivered to Holders or their designee upon presentation and surrender of the certificate evidencing the Series L Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent if shares of the Series L Preferred Stock are held in certificated form, and, if required, the furnishing of appropriate endorsements and transfer documents and the payment of all transfer and similar taxes. If a Holder's interest is a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, a book-entry transfer through the Depository will be made by the Conversion Agent upon compliance with the Depository's procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a global security. 
    
  (B) On the date of any conversion at the option of Holders pursuant to Section 5, Section 6(b), Section 6 or Section 6(d), if a Holder's interest is in certificated form, a Holder must do each of the following in order to convert: 
    
  (1) complete and manually sign the conversion notice provided by the Conversion Agent, or a facsimile of the conversion notice, and deliver this irrevocable notice to the Conversion Agent; 
    
  (2) surrender the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to the Conversion Agent;  
    
  (3) if required, furnish appropriate endorsements and transfer documents; 
    
  (4) if required, pay all transfer or similar taxes; and 

(5) if required, pay funds equal to any declared and unpaid dividend payable on the next Dividend 
  Payment Date to which such Holder is entitled. 
    
  If a Holder's interest is a beneficial interest in a global certificate representing Series L Preferred Stock, in order to convert a Holder must comply with paragraphs (3) through (5) listed above and comply with the Depository's procedures for converting a beneficial interest in a global security. 
    
  The date on which a Holder complies with the procedures in this clause (v) is the    Conversion Date  .  
    
  (C) The Conversion Agent shall, on a Holder's behalf, convert the Series L Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock, in accordance with the terms of the notice delivered by such Holder described in clause (B) above. If the Conversion Date is prior to the record date relating to any declared dividend for the Dividend Period in which a Holder elects to convert, the Holder will not receive any declared dividends for that Dividend Period. If the Conversion Date is after the record date relating to any declared dividend and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, the Holder will receive that dividend on the relevant Dividend Payment Date if the Holder was the holder of record on the record date for that dividend. However, if the Conversion Date is after the record date and prior to the Dividend Payment Date, whether or not the Holder was the holder of record on the record date, the Holder must pay to the Conversion Agent when it converts its shares of Series L Preferred Stock an amount in cash equal to the full dividend actually paid on the Dividend Payment Date for the then-current Dividend Period on the shares of Series L Preferred Stock being converted, unless the Holder's shares of Series L Preferred Stock are being converted as a result of a conversion pursuant to Section 6(b), Section 6(c) or Section 6(d). 
    
  (b) Conversion at the Corporation's Option  . 
    
  (i) On or after January 30, 2013, the Corporation may, at its option, at any time or from time to time, cause some or all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted into shares of Common Stock at the then-Applicable Conversion Rate if, for 20 Trading Days during any period of 30 consecutive Trading Days the Closing Price of the Common Stock exceeds 130% of the then-Applicable Conversion Price of the Series L Preferred Stock. If the Corporation exercises its optional conversion right on January 30, 2013, it will still pay any dividend payable (in accordance with Section 4) on January 30, 2013 to the applicable Holders of record. The Corporation will provide notice of its optional conversion within five Trading Days of the end of the 30 consecutive Trading Day period. 
  (ii) If the Corporation elects to cause less than all of the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted under clause (i) above, the Conversion Agent will select the Series L Preferred Stock to be converted by lot, or on a   pro rata   basis or by another method the Conversion Agent considers fair and appropriate, including any method required by DTC or any successor depository (so long as such method is not prohibited by the rules of any stock exchange or quotation association on which the Series L Preferred Stock is then traded or quoted). If the Conversion Agent selects a portion of a Holder's Series L Preferred Stock for partial conversion at the Corporation's option and such Holder converts a portion of its shares of Series L Preferred Stock, the converted portion will be deemed to be from the portion selected for conversion at the Corporation's option under this Section 6(b). 
  (iii) If the Corporation exercises the optional conversion right described in this Section 6(b), the Corporation shall provide notice of such conversion by first class mail to each Holder of record for the shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted (such notice a    Notice of Optional Conversion   ) or issue a press release for publication and make this information available on its website. The Conversion Date shall be a date selected by the Corporation (the    Optional Conversion Date   ), and the Notice of Optional Conversion must be mailed, or the Corporation must issue the press release, not more than 20 days prior to the Optional Conversion Date. In addition to any information required by applicable law or regulation, the Notice of Optional Conversion or press release shall state, as appropriate: 
  (A) the Optional Conversion Date; 
  (B) the aggregate number of shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted and, if less than all of the shares of Series L Preferred Stock are to be converted, the percentage of shares of Series L Preferred Stock to be converted; and  
  (C) the number of shares of Common Stock to be issued upon conversion of each share of Series L Preferred Stock. 
  (c) Conversion Upon Make-Whole Acquisition  . 
    
  (i) In the event of a Make-Whole Acquisition, each Holder shall have the option to convert its shares of Series L Preferred Stock (a    Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion   ) during the period (the    Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion Period   ) beginning on the effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition (the    Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date   ) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and receive an additional number of shares of Common Stock (the    Make-Whole Shares   ) as set forth in clause (ii) below. 

(ii) The number of Make-Whole Shares per share of Series L Preferred Stock shall be determined by reference to the table below for the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date and the applicable Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price: 

(A) The exact Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices and Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates may not be set forth in the table, in which case: 
    
  (1) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is between two Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts in the table or the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date is between two dates in the table, the number of Make- Whole Shares will be determined by straight-line interpolation between the number of Make-Whole Shares set forth for the higher and lower Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price amounts and the two Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Dates, as applicable, based on a 365-day year; 
    
  (2) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is in excess of $200.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 7 hereof), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock; and 
    
  (3) if the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Price is less than $40.00 per share (subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 7 hereof), no Make-Whole Shares will be issued upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (B) The Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices set forth in the table above are subject to adjustment pursuant to Section 7 hereof and shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate is adjusted. The adjusted Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices will equal the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Make-Whole Acquisition Stock Prices adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. Each of the number of Make-Whole Shares in the table shall also be subject to adjustment in the same manner as the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 7. 
    
  (iii) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Make-Whole Acquisition, a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
    
  (A) the anticipated effective date of the Make-Whole Acquisition; and 
    
  (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the anticipated Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, by which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion must be exercised. 
    
  (iv) On the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date, another written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
  (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date; 

(B) the number of Make-Whole Shares; 
    
  (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration receivable by a Holder of Series L Preferred 
  Stock upon conversion; and 
    
  (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such Make-Whole Acquisition. 
    
  (v) To exercise a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (iv) above, comply with the procedures set forth in Section 6(a)(v)(B). 
    
  (vi) If a Holder does not elect to exercise the Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion option pursuant to this 
  Section 6(c), the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or successor security held by it will remain outstanding, and the Holder will not be eligible to receive Make-Whole Shares. 
    
  (vii) Upon a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 6(a)(iv) above, deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to Make-Whole Shares in the Make-Whole Acquisition. 
    
  (viii) In the event that a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation or its successors, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to which a Make-Whole Acquisition Conversion was not effected. 
    
  (d) Conversion Upon Fundamental Change  . 
    
  (i) In lieu of receiving the Make-Whole Shares, if the Reference Price in connection with a Make-Whole Acquisition is less than the Applicable Conversion Price (a    Fundamental Change   ), a Holder may elect to convert each share of Series L Preferred Stock during the period beginning on the effective date of the Fundamental Change and ending on the date that is 30 days after the effective date of such Fundamental Change at an adjusted conversion price equal to the greater of (1) the Reference Price and (2) $19.95, subject to adjustment as described in clause (ii) below (the    Base Price   ). If the Reference Price is less than the Base Price, Holders will receive a maximum of 50.1253 shares of Common Stock per share of Series L Preferred Stock converted, subject to adjustment as described in clause (ii) below. 
    
  (ii) The Base Price shall be adjusted as of any date the Conversion Rate of the Series L Preferred Stock is adjusted pursuant to Section 7. The adjusted Base Price shall equal the Base Price applicable immediately prior to such adjustment multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Conversion Rate immediately prior to the adjustment giving rise to the Conversion Rate adjustment and the denominator of which is the Conversion Rate as so adjusted. 
    
  (iii) In lieu of issuing Common Stock upon conversion in the event of a Fundamental Change, the Corporation may at its option, and if it obtains Federal Reserve Board approval, pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the Reference Price for each share of Common Stock otherwise issuable upon conversion. 
    
  (iv) On or before the twentieth day prior to the date the Corporation anticipates being the effective date for the Fundamental Change, a written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
    
  (A) the anticipated effective date of the Fundamental Change; and 
    
  (B) the date, which shall be 30 days after the anticipated effective date of a Fundamental Change, by which a Fundamental Change conversion must be exercised. 
    
  (v) On the effective date of a Fundamental Change, another written notice shall be sent by or on behalf of the Corporation, by first-class mail, postage prepaid, to the Holders as they appear in the records of the Corporation. Such notice shall contain: 
  (A) the date that shall be 30 days after the effective date of the Fundamental Change; 

(B) the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change; 
    
  (C) the amount of cash, securities and other consideration received by a Holder of Series L Preferred Stock upon conversion; and 
    
  (D) the instructions a Holder must follow to exercise its conversion option in connection with such 
  Fundamental Change. 
    
  (vi) To exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change, a Holder must, no later than 5:00 p.m., New York City time on or before the date by which the conversion option upon the Fundamental Change must be exercised as specified in the notice delivered under clause (v) above, comply with the procedures set forth in Section 6(a)(v)(B) and indicate that it is exercising the Fundamental Change conversion option. 
    
  (vii) If a Holder does not elect to exercise its conversion option upon a Fundamental Change pursuant to this Section 6(d), the Holder will not be eligible to convert such Holder's shares at the Base Price and such Holder's shares of Series L Preferred Stock or successor security held by it will remain outstanding. 
    
  (viii) Upon a conversion upon a Fundamental Change, the Conversion Agent shall, except as otherwise provided in the instructions provided by the Holder thereof in the written notice provided to the Corporation or its successor as set forth in Section 6(a)(iv) above, deliver to the Holder such cash, securities or other property as are issuable with respect to the adjusted conversion price following the Fundamental Change. 
    
  (ix) In the event that a conversion upon a Fundamental Change is effected with respect to shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security representing less than all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or a successor security held by a Holder, upon such conversion the Corporation or its successor shall execute and the Conversion Agent shall, unless otherwise instructed in writing, countersign and deliver to the Holder thereof, at the expense of the Corporation, a certificate evidencing the shares of Series L Preferred Stock or such successor security held by the Holder as to which a conversion upon a Fundamental Change was not effected. 
    
  Section 7. Anti-Dilution Adjustments  . 
    
  (a) The Conversion Rate shall be subject to the following adjustments. 
    
  (i)   Stock Dividend Distributions  . If the Corporation pays dividends or other distributions on the Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately following the record date for such dividend or distribution will be multiplied by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  OS  0   = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution. 
    
  OS  1   = the sum of the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Ex-Date for such dividend or distribution plus the total number of shares of Common Stock constituting such dividend. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no adjustment will be made for the issuance of the Common Stock as a dividend or distribution to all holders of Common Stock that is made in lieu of quarterly dividends or distributions to such holders, to the extent such dividend or distribution does not exceed the dividend threshold amount defined in clause (v) below. For purposes of this paragraph, the amount of any dividend or distribution will equal the number of shares being issued multiplied by the average VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the five consecutive Trading Days prior to the record date for such distribution. 
    
  (ii)   Subdivisions, Splits, and Combination of the Common Stock  . If the Corporation subdivides, splits, or combines the shares of Common Stock, then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately following the effective date of such share subdivision, split, or combination will be multiplied by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  OS  0   = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the effective date of such share subdivision, split, or combination. 
    
  OS  1   = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the opening of business on the effective date of such share subdivision, split, or combination. 
    
  (iii)   Issuance of Stock Purchase Rights  . If the Corporation issues to all holders of the shares of Common Stock rights or warrants (other than rights or warrants issued pursuant to a dividend reinvestment plan or share purchase plan or other similar plans) entitling them, for a period of up to 60 days from the date of issuance of such rights or warrants, to subscribe for or purchase the shares of Common Stock (or securities convertible into shares of Common Stock) at less than (or having a conversion price per share less than) the Current Market Price on the date fixed for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants, then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately following the close of business on the record date for such distribution will be multiplied by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  OS  0   = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding at the close of business on the record date for such distribution. 
    
  X = the total number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to such rights or warrants (or upon conversion of such securities). 
    
  Y = the number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate price payable to exercise such rights or warrants (or the conversion price for such securities) divided by the Current Market Price. 
    
  To the extent that such rights or warrants are not exercised prior to their expiration or shares of Common Stock are otherwise not delivered pursuant to such rights or warrants upon the exercise of such rights or warrants, the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to such Conversion Rate that would then be in effect had the adjustment made upon the issuance of such rights or warrants been made on the basis of the delivery of only the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered. In determining the aggregate offering price payable for such shares of Common Stock, the Conversion Agent will take into account any consideration received for such rights or warrants and the value of such consideration (if other than cash, to be determined by the Board). 
    
  (iv)   Debt or Asset Distributions  . If the Corporation distributes to all holders of shares of Common Stock evidences of indebtedness, shares of capital stock (other than Common Stock), securities, or other assets (excluding any dividend or distribution referred to in clauses (i) or (ii) above, any rights or warrants referred to in clause (iii) above, any dividend or distribution paid exclusively in cash, any consideration payable in connection with a tender or exchange offer made by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, and any dividend of shares of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests, of or relating to a subsidiary or other business unit in the case of certain spin-off transactions as described below), then the Conversion Rate in effect immediately following the close of business on the record date for such distribution will be multiplied by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  SP  0   = the Current Market Price per share of Common Stock on the Ex-Date. 
  FMV = the fair market value of the portion of the distribution applicable to one share of Common Stock on the date immediately preceding the Ex-Date as determined by the Board. 

In a spin-off, where the Corporation makes a distribution to all holders of shares of Common Stock consisting of capital stock of any class or series, or similar equity interests of, or relating to, a subsidiary or other business unit, the Conversion Rate will be adjusted on the fifteenth Trading Day after the effective date of the distribution by multiplying such Conversion Rate in effect immediately prior to such fifteenth Trading Day by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  MP  0   = the average of the VWAP of the Common Stock over each of the first ten Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day following the effective date of such distribution. 
    
  MP  s   = the average of the VWAP of the capital stock or equity interests representing the portion of the distribution applicable to one share of Common Stock over each of the first ten Trading Days commencing on and including the fifth Trading Day following the effective date of such distribution, or, if not traded on a national or regional securities exchange or over-the-counter market, the fair market value of the capital stock or equity interests representing the portion of the distribution applicable to one share of Common Stock on such date as determined by the Board. 
    
  (v)   Cash Distributions  . If the Corporation makes a distribution consisting exclusively of cash to all holders of the Common Stock, excluding (a) any cash dividend on the Common Stock to the extent that the aggregate cash dividend per share of the Common Stock does not exceed $0.64 in any fiscal quarter (the    Dividend Threshold Amount   ), (b) any cash that is distributed in a Reorganization Event or as part of a spin-off referred to in clause (iv) above, (c) any dividend or distribution, in connection with the Corporation's liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, and (d) any consideration payable in connection with a tender or exchange offer made by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries, then in each event, the Conversion Rate in effect immediately following the record date for such distribution will be multiplied by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  SP  0   = the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately preceding the Ex-Date. 
    
  DIV = the cash amount per share of Common Stock of the dividend or distribution, as determined pursuant to the following paragraph. 
    
  If an adjustment is required to be made as set forth in this clause as a result of a distribution (1) that is a regularly scheduled quarterly dividend, such adjustment would be based on the amount by which such dividend exceeds the Dividend Threshold Amount or (2) that is not a regularly scheduled quarterly dividend, such adjustment would be based on the full amount of such distribution. 
    
  The Dividend Threshold Amount is subject to adjustment on an inversely proportional basis whenever the Conversion Rate is adjusted;   provided   that no adjustment will be made to the Dividend Threshold Amount for any adjustment made to the Conversion Rate pursuant to this clause (v). 
    
  (vi)   Self-Tender Offers and Exchange Offers  . If the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries successfully completes a tender or exchange offer for the Common Stock where the cash and the value of any other consideration included in the payment per share of the Common Stock exceeds the VWAP per share of the Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately succeeding the expiration of the tender or exchange offer, then the Conversion Rate in effect at the close of business on such immediately succeeding Trading Day will be multiplied by the following fraction: 

Where, 
    
  SP  0   = the VWAP per share of Common Stock on the Trading Day immediately succeeding the expiration of the tender or exchange offer. 

OS  0   = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the expiration of the tender or exchange offer, including any shares validly tendered and not withdrawn (the    Purchased Shares   ). 
    
  OS  1   = the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding immediately after the expiration of the tender or exchange offer, less any Purchased Shares. 
    
  AC = the aggregate cash and fair market value of the other consideration payable in the tender or exchange offer, as determined by the Board. 
    
  In the event that the Corporation, or one of its subsidiaries, is obligated to purchase shares of Common Stock pursuant to any such tender offer or exchange offer, but the Corporation, or such subsidiary, is permanently prevented by applicable law from effecting any such purchases, or all such purchases are rescinded, then the Conversion Rate shall be readjusted to be such Conversion Rate that would then be in effect if such tender offer or exchange offer had not been made. 
    
  (vii)   Rights Plans  . To the extent that the Corporation has a rights plan in effect with respect to the Common Stock on any Conversion Date, upon conversion of any shares of the Series L Preferred Stock, Holders will receive, in addition to the shares of Common Stock, the rights under the rights plan, unless, prior to such Conversion Date, the rights have separated from the shares of Common Stock, in which case the Conversion Rate will be adjusted at the time of separation as if the Corporation had made a distribution to all holders of the Common Stock as described in clause (iv) above, subject to readjustment in the event of the expiration, termination, or redemption of such rights. 
    
  (b) The Corporation may make such increases in the Conversion Rate, in addition to any other increases required by this Section 7, if the Corporation deems it advisable in order to avoid or diminish any income tax to holders of the Common Stock resulting from any dividend or distribution of shares of Common Stock (or issuance of rights or warrants to acquire shares of Common Stock) or from any event treated as such for income tax purposes or for any other reason. 
    
  (c)(i) All adjustments to the Conversion Rate shall be calculated to the nearest 1/10,000th of a share of Common Stock. No adjustment in the Conversion Rate will be made unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least one percent therein;   provided  , that any adjustments which by reason of this subparagraph are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment;   provided further   that on the Optional Conversion Date, the Make-Whole Acquisition Effective Date or the effective date of a Fundamental Change, adjustments to the Conversion Rate will be made with respect to any such adjustment carried forward and which has not been taken into account before such date. 
    
  (ii) No adjustment to the Conversion Rate shall be made if Holders may participate in the transaction that would otherwise give rise to an adjustment, as a result of holding the Series L Preferred Stock, without having to convert the Series L Preferred Stock, as if they held the full number of shares of Common Stock into which their shares of the Series L Preferred Stock may then be converted. 
    
  (iii) The Applicable Conversion Rate will not be adjusted: 
    
  (A) upon the issuance of any shares of the Common Stock pursuant to any present or future plan providing for the reinvestment of dividends or interest payable on the Corporation's securities and the investment of additional optional amounts in shares of Common Stock under any plan; 
    
  (B) upon the issuance of any shares of the Common Stock or rights or warrants to purchase those shares pursuant to any present or future employee, director, or consultant benefit plan or program of or assumed by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries; 
    
  (C) upon the issuance of any shares of the Common Stock pursuant to any option, warrant, right or exercisable, exchangeable or convertible security outstanding as of the date the shares of the Series L Preferred Stock were first issued; 
    
  (D) for a change in the par value or no par value of the Common Stock; or 
    
  (E) for accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d) Whenever the Conversion Rate is to be adjusted in accordance with Section 7(a) or Section 7(b), the Corporation shall: (i) compute the Conversion Rate in accordance with Section 7(a) or Section 7(b), taking into account the one percent threshold set forth in Section 7(c) hereof, and prepare and transmit to the Transfer Agent an officer's certificate setting forth the Conversion Rate, the method of calculation thereof in reasonable detail, and the facts requiring such adjustment and upon which such adjustment is based; (ii) as soon as practicable following the occurrence of an event that requires an  

adjustment to the Conversion Rate pursuant to Section 7(a) or Section 7(b), taking into account the one percent threshold set forth in Section 7(c) hereof (or if the Corporation is not aware of such occurrence, as soon as practicable after becoming so aware), provide, or cause to be provided, a written notice to the Holders of the occurrence of such event; and (iii) as soon as practicable following the determination of the revised Conversion Rate in accordance with Section 7(a) or Section 7(b) hereof, provide, or cause to be provided, a written notice to the Holders setting forth in reasonable detail the method by which the adjustment to the Conversion Rate was determined and setting forth the revised Conversion Rate. 
    
  Section 8. Reorganization Events  .  
    
  (a) In the event of: 
  (i) the Corporation's consolidation or merger with or into another Person, in each case pursuant to which the 
  Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property of the Corporation or another Person; 
  (ii) any sale, transfer, lease, or conveyance to another Person of all or substantially all of the Corporation's property and assets, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property; or 
  (iii) any statutory exchange of the Corporation's securities with another Person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition); 
  (any such event specified in this Section 8(a), a    Reorganization Event    each share of Series L Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event will, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the kind of securities, cash, and other property receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of the shares of Common Stock that was not the counterparty to the Reorganization Event or an affiliate of such other party (such securities, cash, and other property, the    Exchange Property   ). 
    
  (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such transaction, the consideration that the Holders are entitled to receive will be deemed to be the types and amounts of consideration received by the majority of the holders of the shares of the Common Stock that affirmatively make an election (or of all such holders if none make an election). On each Conversion Date following a Reorganization Event, the Conversion Rate then in effect will be applied to the value on such Conversion Date of the securities, cash, or other property received per share of Common Stock, determined as set forth above. The amount of Exchange Property receivable upon conversion of any Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with Section 5, Section 6(b), Section 6(c) or Section 6(d) hereof shall be determined based upon the then Applicable Conversion Rate. 
    
  (c) The above provisions of this Section 8 shall similarly apply to successive Reorganization Events and the provisions of Section 7 shall apply to any shares of capital stock of the Corporation (or any successor) received by the holders of the Common Stock in any such Reorganization Event. 
    
  (d) The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the kind and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section 8. 
    
  Section 9. Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders before any distribution of the assets of the Corporation may be made to the Holders of any Junior Stock to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. After payment of this liquidating distribution, the holders of Series L Preferred Stock will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of the Corporation's assets in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. Distributions will be made only to the extent of the Corporation's assets remaining available after satisfaction of all liabilities to creditors and subject to the rights of holders of any securities ranking senior to the Series L Preferred Stock and   pro rata   as to the Series L Preferred Stock and any other shares of the Corporation's stock ranking equally as to such distribution. 
    
  (b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series L Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series L Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 

(c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series L Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 9, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property or business of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Redemption  . 
    
  The Series L Preferred Stock shall not be redeemable either at the Corporation's option or at the option of the Holders at any time. 
    
  Section 11. Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a) General.   The holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in 
  Section 11(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
    
  (b) Special Voting Right  . 
    
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock ranking equally with Series L Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 11 have been conferred (   Voting Parity Securities   ) and are exercisable, have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of at least six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not (a    Nonpayment   )), the number of directors constituting the Board shall be increased by two, and the Holders of the outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock voting as a class with holders of any series of the Corporation's preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist, shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, with voting rights allocated   pro rata   based on liquidation preference, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and provided further that the Board shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series L Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities is a    Preferred Director  .  Any Preferred Director elected by the holders of the Series L Preferred Stock and any Parity Stock may only be removed by the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding Series L Preferred Stock and any such Parity Stock, voting together as a single and separate class, at a meeting of the Corporation's stockholders called for that purpose. Any vacancy created by the removal of any Preferred Director may be filled only by the vote of the holders of the outstanding Series L Preferred Stock and any such Parity Stock, voting together as a single and separate class. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, without the consent of the Holders, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of the Holders, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement, or repeal any terms of the Series L Preferred Stock for the following purposes: 
    
  (1) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct, or supplement any provision contained in this 
  Certificate of Designations that may be ambiguous, defective, or inconsistent; or 
    
  (2) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions relating to the Series L Preferred Stock that is not inconsistent with the provisions of this Certificate of Designations. 
    
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the Holders Series L Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities with exercisable voting rights, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting right has vested pursuant to Section 11(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any Holder of Series L Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series L Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities with  

exercisable voting rights, for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 11(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any Holder of Series L Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 11(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 11(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the Holders of the Series L Preferred Stock (voting together on a single and separate class with holders of any Voting Parity Securities, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   The voting rights described above will terminate, except as provided by law, upon the earlier of (A) the conversion of all of the Series L Preferred Stock or (B) the payment of full dividends on the Series L Preferred Stock and any other series of the Corporation's preferred stock, if any, for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods (but subject to revesting in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods) following a Nonpayment on the Series L Preferred Stock and any other series of the Corporation's preferred stock. Upon termination of the special voting right described above, the terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series L Preferred Stock (voting together as a single and separate class with holders of any Voting Parity Securities, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist). 
    
  Section 12.   Fractional Shares. 
    
  (a) No fractional shares of Common Stock will be issued as a result of any conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock. 
    
  (b) In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock otherwise issuable in respect of any conversion at the Corporation's option pursuant to Section 5 hereof or any conversion at the option of the Holder pursuant to Section 6(b), Section 6(c) or Section 6(d) hereof, the Corporation shall pay an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the same fraction of the Closing Price of the Common Stock determined as of the second Trading Day immediately preceding the effective date of conversion. 
    
  (c) If more than one share of the Series L Preferred Stock is surrendered for conversion at one time by or for the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of the Series L Preferred Stock so surrendered. 
    
  Section 13.   Reservation of Common Stock. 
    
  (a) The Corporation shall at all times reserve and keep available out of its authorized and unissued Common Stock or shares held in the treasury by the Corporation, solely for issuance upon the conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock as provided in this Certificate of Designations, free from any preemptive or other similar rights, such number of shares of Common Stock as shall from time to time be issuable upon the conversion of all the shares of Series L Preferred Stock then outstanding, at the Applicable Conversion Price subject to adjustment as described under Section 7. For purposes of this Section 13(a), the number of shares of Common Stock that shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series L Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all such outstanding shares were held by a single Holder. 
    
  (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation shall be entitled to deliver upon conversion of shares of Series L Preferred Stock, as herein provided, shares of Common Stock acquired by the Corporation (in lieu of the issuance of authorized and unissued shares of Common Stock), so long as any such acquired shares are free and clear of all liens, charges, security interests or encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders). 
    
  (c) All shares of Common Stock delivered upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock shall be duly authorized, validly issued, fully paid and non-assessable, free and clear of all liens, claims, security interests and other encumbrances (other than liens, charges, security interests and other encumbrances created by the Holders). 

(d) Prior to the delivery of any securities that the Corporation shall be obligated to deliver upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all federal and state laws and regulations thereunder requiring the registration of such securities with, or any approval of or consent to the delivery thereof by, any governmental authority. 
    
  (e) The Corporation hereby covenants and agrees that, if at any time the Common Stock shall be listed on the New York Stock Exchange or any other national securities exchange or automated quotation system, the Corporation will, if permitted by the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system, list and keep listed, so long as the Common Stock shall be so listed on such exchange or automated quotation system, all the Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock;   provided, however  , that if the rules of such exchange or automated quotation system permit the Corporation to defer the listing of such Common Stock until the first conversion of Series L Preferred Stock into Common Stock in accordance with the provisions hereof, the Corporation covenants to list such Common Stock issuable upon conversion of the Series L Preferred Stock in accordance with the requirements of such exchange or automated quotation system at such time. 
    
  Section 14. Preemption  . The Holders of Series L Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption. 
    
  Section 15. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board, without the vote of the Holders of the Series L Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series L Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 16. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell shares of Series L Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 17. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series L Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series and shall be available for subsequent issuance. 
    
  Section 18. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series L Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES M 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1.    At meetings duly convened and held on December 11, 2007, January 23, 2008 and April 23, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
  2.    Thereafter, on April 25, 2008, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent: 
      RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as   Exhibit A  , which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 29th day of April, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES M  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1.        Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M  (the    Series M Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series M Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series M Preferred Stock. Series M Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.        Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall be 160,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series M Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series M Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series M Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
   Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series M Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below). 
   Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
   Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.   
   Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
   Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
   DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  Fixed Rate Period  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
   Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
   Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series M Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
   Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding), (e) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding), (f) the Corporation's 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, 

Series J, (h) the Corporation's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (i) the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, and (j) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series M Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying rates or prices comparable to the London Interbank Offered Rate for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series M Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series M Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
   Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01 , Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three- Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Corporation, at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Corporation to provide quotations are not quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below). The Calculation Agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series M Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.        Dividends  . 
    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series M Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series M Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on each May 15 and November 15, beginning on November 15, 2008, and (y) for the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each February 15, May 15, August 15, and November 15, beginning on August 15, 2018;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series M Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series M Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 8.125%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding, May 15, 2018 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 3.64%, for each Dividend Period from, and including, May 15, 2018 to the date of redemption of the Series M Preferred Stock (the    Floating Rate Period   ). The record date for payment of dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock shall be the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls. For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. 

(b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series M Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series M Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series M Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series M Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series M Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series M Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series M Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series M Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series M Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series M Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series M Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series M Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series M Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series M Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)        Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series M Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series M Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series M Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series M Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 

(d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption  . 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series M Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on May 15, 2018, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 
    
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series M Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series M Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series M Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series M Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series M Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series M Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series M Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series M Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series M Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)        General.   The holders of Series M Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 

(b)        Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i)        Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series M Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series M Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series M Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series M Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series M Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii)        Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series M Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series M Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series M Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series M Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series M Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii)        Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series M Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series M Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series M Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series M Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series M Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series M Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series M Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series M Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the  

Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series M Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series M Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10.        Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series M Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.        Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series M Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.        No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series M Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  8.20% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At meetings duly convened and held on December 11, 2007, January 23, 2008 and April 23, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
    
  2. Thereafter, on May 21, 2008, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent: 
    
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as Exhibit A, which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 22nd day of May, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

/s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

EXHIBIT A 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
    
  OF 
    
  8.20% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES H  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Section 1. Designation  . The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H  (the    Series H Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series H Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series H Preferred Stock. Series H Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2. Number of Shares  . The number of authorized shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be 124,200. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series H Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any other duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware stating that such increase or reduction, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series H Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3. Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series H Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series H Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Parity Stock    means (a) the Corporation's 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) the Corporation's 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) the Corporation's Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding), (e) the Corporation's Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding), (f) the Corporation's 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, (h) the Corporation's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (i) the Corporation's 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (j) the Corporation's Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, and (k) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series H Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series H Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series H Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 

Section 4. Dividends. 
    
  (a) Rate  . Holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends at a rate per annum equal to 8.20% on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series H Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on each February 1, May 1, August 1 and November 1; provided, however, if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise declared and payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day, unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day (in either case, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay) (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series H Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series H Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate per annum equal to 8.20%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month during which the Dividend Payment Date falls. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  (b) Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends payable on the shares of Series H Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on such Dividend Payment Date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series H Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c) Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series H Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series H Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series H Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series H Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series H Preferred Stock for the then-current Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series H Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series H Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any assets legally available therefor, and the shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 

Section 5. Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a) Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available therefor, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series H Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b) Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series H Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series H Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid of Series H Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c) Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series H Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d) Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6. Redemption. 
    
  (a) Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, in whole or in part, the shares of Series H Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on any Dividend Payment Date on or after the Dividend Payment Date on May 1, 2013, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be $25,000 per share plus dividends that have been declared but not paid. 
    
  (b) Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series H Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series H Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series H Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series H Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c) Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series H Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series H Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series H Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series H Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series H Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 

(d) Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other assets, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue after such redemption date, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7. Voting Rights. 
    
  (a) General.   The holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraph 7(b) below or as required by Delaware law. 
    
  (b) Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i) Voting Right.   If and whenever dividends on the Series H Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid, as to any class or series, for the equivalent of at least six quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series H Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with the Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii) Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series H Preferred Stock and any other class or series of our stock that ranks on parity with Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series H Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series H Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii) Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series H Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be  

filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv) Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series H Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series H Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series H Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series H Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  Section 8. Preemptive Rights and Conversion  . The holders of Series H Preferred Stock shall not have any preemptive rights or rights to convert such Series H Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9. Rank  . Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors of the Corporation, the Committee or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, without the vote of the holders of the Series H Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock, Parity Stock or any class or series of Senior Stock or any other securities ranking senior to the Series H Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 10. Repurchase  . Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series H Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors of the Corporation or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11. Unissued or Reacquired Shares  . Shares of Series H Preferred Stock not issued or which have been redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12. No Sinking Fund  . Shares of Series H Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
    
  OF 
    
  FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES N  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 141 and 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify: 
  At meetings duly convened and held by the board of directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) on July 23, 2008 and October 15, 2008, the Board of Directors duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board of Directors to act on behalf of the Board of Directors in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate, the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such series of Preferred Stock. 
  Thereafter, on October 26, 2008, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution creating a series of 600,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as    Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N    by written consent 
    
  RESOLVED  , that pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Part 1.   Designation and Number of Shares  . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the  Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N  (the    Designated Preferred Stock   ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 600,000. 
    
  Part 2.   Standard Provisions  . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. 
    
  Part. 3.   Definitions  . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below: 
    
  (a)    Common Stock    means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation. 
    
  (b)    Dividend Payment Date    means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year. 
    
  (c)    Junior Stock    means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (d)    Liquidation Amount    means $25,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock.  
    
  (e)    Minimum Amount    means $3,750,000,000. 
    
  (f)    Parity Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B; (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D; (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E; (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding); (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding); (vi) 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H; (vii) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I; (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J; (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K;  

(x) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L; and (xi) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M. 
    
  (g)    Signing Date    means October 26, 2008. 
    
  Part. 4.   Certain Voting Matters  . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent. 
    
  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank] 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Teresa M. Brenner, its Associate General Counsel, this 27th day of October, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

STANDARD PROVISIONS 
    
  Section 1.   General Matters  . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.   Standard Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock: 
    
  (a)    Applicable Dividend Rate    means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum. 
    
  (b)    Appropriate Federal Banking Agency    means the  appropriate Federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision. 
    
  (c)    Business Combination    means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders. 
    
  (d)    Business Day    means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close. 
    
  (e)    Bylaws    means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time. 
    
   (f)    Certificate of Designations    means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (g)    Charter    means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document. 
    
  (h)    Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a). 
    
   (i)    Dividend Record Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  
    
   (j)    Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
  (k)    Original Issue Date    means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.  
    
   (l)    Preferred Director    has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
  (m)    Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (n)    Qualified Equity Offering    means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008). 
    
  (o)    Share Dilution Amount    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). 
    
  (p)    Standard Provisions    mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (q)    Successor Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a). 

(r)    Voting Parity Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
    
  Section 3.   Dividends  . 
    
  (a)   Rate  . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (  i.e.  , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period   , provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360- day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a    Dividend Record Date   ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day. 
    
  Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations). 
    
  (b)   Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,   provided   that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into  

other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.    Share Dilution Amount    means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity- based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction. 
    
  When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared   pro rata   so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 4.   Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a)   Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation  . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the    Liquidation Preference   ). 
    
  (b)   Partial Payment  . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled. 
    
  (c)   Residual Distributions  . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)   Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 

Section 5.   Redemption  . 
    
  (a)   Optional Redemption  . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date. On or after the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;   provided   that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the  Minimum Amount  as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor that was originally issued to the United States Department of the Treasury (the    Successor Preferred Stock   ) in connection with the Troubled Asset Relief Program Capital Purchase Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor). 
    
  The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above. 
    
  (b)   No Sinking Fund  . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (c)   Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. 
    
  (d)   Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 

(e)   Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  (f)   Status of Redeemed Shares  . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (  provided   that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock). 
    
  Section 6.   Conversion  . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities. 
    
  Section 7.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  (b)   Preferred Stock Directors  . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the      Preferred Directors    and each a      Preferred Director   ) to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;   provided   that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. 
    
  (c)   Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66   2  /  3  % of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 
    
  (i)   Authorization of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of  

the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)   Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or 
    
  (iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)   Changes after Provision for Redemption  . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above. 
    
  (e)   Procedures for Voting and Consents  . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.   Record Holders  . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  Section 9.   Notices  . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Corporation or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility. 
    
  Section 10.   No Preemptive Rights  . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted. 
    
  Section 11.   Replacement Certificates  . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation. 

Section 12.   Other Rights  . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law. 

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT  
  TO THE 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 242 
  of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Company ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Company is hereby amended by changing the number of shares of stock the Company is authorized to issue, so that, the first sentence of Article 3 thereof shall read as follows: 
    
   3. The number of shares, par value $0.01 per share, the Company is authorized to issue is Ten Billion One Hundred Million (10,100,000,000), divided into the following classes: 

2. The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 

[SIGNATURE PAGE FOLLOWS] 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 9  th  day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 1  
  (Par Value $0.01 Per Share) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the    Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 

FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 1 
    
  (1)   Number of Shares and Designation  . 21,000 shares of the preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1 (hereinafter called the    Preferred Stock, Series 1   ). 
    
  (2)   Dividends  . (a) The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be entitled to receive, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), out of assets of the Corporation legally available under Delaware law for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate set forth below in this Section (2) applied to the amount of $30,000 per share. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), on February 28, May 28, August 28 and November 28 (the    Payment Dates    ) commencing on February 28, 2009;   provided   that if any such Payment Date is not a New York Business Day and London Business Day, dividends (if declared) on the Preferred Stock, Series 1, will be paid on the immediately succeeding New York Business Day and London Business Day, without interest, unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Payment Date will be the immediately preceding New York Business Day and London Business Day. Each such dividend shall be payable to the holders of record of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be a date not more than 30 nor less than 10 days preceding the applicable Payment Dates, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof).    London Business Day    means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted, or with respect to any future date are expected to be transacted, in the London interbank market. A  New York Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed. 
    
  (b) (i) Dividend periods (   Dividend Periods   ) shall commence on each Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commended on November 28, 2008) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the first day of the next Dividend Period. The dividend rate on the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1 for each Dividend Period shall be a floating rate per annum equal to three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 0.75%, but in no event will the rate be less than 3.00% per annum, of the $30,000 liquidation preference per share of Preferred Stock, Series 1. 
    
  LIBOR, with respect to a Dividend Period, means the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period that normally appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, as displayed on page  BBAM  (British Bankers Association Official BBA LIBOR Fixings) in the Bloomberg Professional Service (or any other service that may replace Moneyline Telerate, Inc. on page BBAM or any other page that may replace page BBAM on the Bloomberg Professional Service or a successor service, in each case, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks) as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. 

If LIBOR cannot be determined as described above, the Corporation will select four major banks in the London interbank market. The Corporation will request that the principal London offices of those four selected banks provide their offered quotations to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. These quotations will be for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period. Offered quotations must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. 
  If two or more quotations are provided, LIBOR for the Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, the Corporation will select three major banks in New York City and will then determine LIBOR for the Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of rates quoted by those three major banks in New York City to leading European banks at approximately 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. The rates quoted will be for loans in U.S. dollars, for a three month period. Rates quoted must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. If fewer than three New York City banks selected by the Corporation are quoting rates, LIBOR for the applicable period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Dividend Period. 
  (ii) The amount of dividends payable for each full Dividend Period (including the initial Dividend Period) for the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) be computed by dividing the dividend rate by four, rounded to the nearest one-hundredth of a percent, with five one-thousandths rounded upwards, and applying the resulting rate to the amount of $30,000 per share. The amount of dividends payable for any period shorter than a full Dividend Period on the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) be computed on the basis of 30-day months, a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in any period of less than one month. The amount of dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upwards. 
  (c) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 are outstanding, the Corporation may not declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to the preferred stock of the Corporation of any series and any other stock of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 1 unless for such Dividend Period full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, Series 1, all dividends declared upon shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Preferred Stock, Series 1, and all such other stock of the Corporation shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 (but without, in the case of any non-cumulative preferred stock, accumulation of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and all such other stock bear to each other. 
  (d) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 are outstanding, the Corporation may not, at any time, declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1 unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1 has been declared, paid or set aside for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period (except for (x) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 1 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (y) redemptions or purchases of any rights pursuant to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, adopted on December 2, 1997 or any agreement that replaces such Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, or by conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 1 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation and (z) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock);   provided  ,   however  , that the foregoing dividend preference shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1 in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid on the Preferred Stock, Series 1 in respect of any prior Dividend Period. If the full dividend on the Preferred Stock, Series 1 is not paid for any Dividend Period, the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1 will have no claim in respect of the unpaid amount so long as no dividend (other than those referred to above) is paid on the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 1 as to dividends and dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 

(e) No dividends may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1 if at the same time any arrears exists in the payment of dividends on any outstanding class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking, as to the payment of dividends, prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1. 
  (f) Holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends, as herein provided, on the Preferred Stock, Series 1. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Preferred Stock, Series 1, which may be in arrears. 
  (3)   Liquidation Preference  . (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be entitled to receive $30,000 per share plus an amount equal to declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of undeclared dividends. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares of preferred stock ranking, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 1, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, and any such other preferred stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section (3), neither the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation, merger or combination of the Corporation into or with one or more corporations or the consolidation, merger or combination of any other corporation or entity into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for purposes of this Section (3). 
  (b) After payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1, as provided in this Section (3), the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1 will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1, as provided in this Section (3), but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall not be entitled to share therein. 
  (4)   Redemption  . (a) The Preferred Stock, Series 1, may not be redeemed prior to November 28, 2009. On and after November 28, 2009, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price of $30,000 per share, together in each case with declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may exercise the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 1 as a whole at any time without further action of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. The Corporation may only elect to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 1 in part pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. 
  (b) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. The Corporation's obligation to provide moneys in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the redemption date, the Corporation shall deposit with a bank or trust company (which may be an affiliate of the Corporation) having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, having a capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, funds necessary for such redemption, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such funds be applied to the redemption of the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, so called for redemption. Any interest accrued on such funds shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from such redemption date shall be released or repaid to the Corporation,  

after which the holder or holders of such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price. 
  Upon surrender, in accordance with said notice, of the certificates for any such shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, not previously called for redemption by lot or pro rata or by any other method determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) to be equitable. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
  The Preferred Stock, Series 1 will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1 will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1. 
  (5)   Terms Dependent on Regulatory Changes  . If, (a) after the date of the issuance of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, the Corporation (by election or otherwise) becomes subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,    Regulations   ) relating to its capital adequacy which Regulation (x) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  in, or pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation and implementing, the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or body, or (y) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital described in either (x) or (y) is referred to below as    Tier 1 Capital   ), and (b) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) affirmatively elects to qualify the Preferred Stock, Series 1 for such Tier 1 Capital treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative restrictions on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 1 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) under such Regulations, then, upon such affirmative election, the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 shall automatically be amended to reflect the following modifications (without any action or consent by the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 or any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation): 
  (i) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision (as defined below), the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 1 on and after November 28, 2009 pursuant to Section 4 hereof shall be restricted (such restrictions including but not limited to any requirement that the Corporation receive prior approval for such redemption from any applicable governmental agency, authority or body or that such redemption be prohibited); 
  (ii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, the Corporation's right to make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make payments on, securities junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1 (upon a non-payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 1) shall become subject to additional restrictions (other than those set forth in Section 2(d) hereof) pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 1; and 
  (iii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, any other new provisions or terms shall be added to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, or existing terms shall be modified;   provided  ,   however  , that no such provision or term shall be added, and no such modification shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5(iii), if it would alter or change the rights, powers or preferences of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 so as to affect the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 adversely. 
  As used above, the term    Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision    means a term which is, in the written opinion of legal counsel of recognized standing and delivered to the Corporation, required for the Preferred Stock, Series 1 to be treated as Tier 1 Capital of the Corporation without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 1 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) pursuant to the applicable Regulations. The Corporation shall provide notice to holders of any Preferred Stock, Series 1 of any such changes in the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 1 made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5 on or about the date of effectiveness of any such modification and shall maintain a copy of such notice on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. A copy of the relevant Regulations shall also be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to such holders. 
  (6)   Voting Rights  . The Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall have no voting rights, except as hereinafter set forth or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 

The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 150 votes. 
    
  Whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 1, have not been declared or paid for such number of Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, which in the aggregate is equivalent to six Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment   ), the holders of outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall have the exclusive right, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 1, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (to the extent such other series of preferred stock are entitled to vote pursuant to the terms thereof), to vote for the election of two additional directors at the next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders. At elections for such directors, each holder of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be entitled to three votes for each share of Preferred Stock, Series 1 held (the holders of shares of any other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, (either alone or together with the holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity) as hereinafter set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity, to elect members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as aforesaid shall continue until all dividends on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall have been paid in full for at least four Dividend Periods following the Nonpayment. Upon payment in full of such dividends, such voting rights shall terminate except as expressly provided by law, subject to re-vesting in the event of each and every subsequent Nonpayment in the payment of dividends as aforesaid. 
    
  Upon termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, to vote for directors as provided in the previous paragraph, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders will terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders voting as a class may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting rights shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions hereof. 
    
  So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, remain outstanding, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, outstanding at the time (voting as a class with all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 1, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable), given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or 
    
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 1, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, or of the holders thereof; 
    
  provided  ,   however  , that any increase in the amount of issued Preferred Stock, Series 1 or authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends were cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
  Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 1: 

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 1 that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Preferred Stock, Series 1 that is not inconsistent with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 1. 
    
  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1 (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents, and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Preferred Stock, Series 1 are listed at the time. 
    
  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such a redemption which is scheduled to be consummated within three months after the time that such rights would otherwise be exercisable. 
    
  (7)   Record Holders  . The Corporation and the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock, Series 1, may deem and treat the record holder of any share of such Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  (8)   Ranking  . Any class or classes of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (i) on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 1, as to dividends or as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, if the holders of such class of stock and the Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) or liquidation prices, without preference or priority one over the other; and 
    
  (ii) junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 1, as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such stock shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such stock. 
    
  (iii) The Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2,   6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5,   6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6,   6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7,   8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8,   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,   6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F,   Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,   8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,   6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,  and  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M,  and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 1, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, shall be deemed to rank on a parity with the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 1, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (9)   Exclusion of Other Rights  . Unless otherwise required by law, shares of Preferred Stock, Series 1, shall not have any rights, including preemptive rights, or preferences other than those specifically set forth herein or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  (10)   Notices  . All notices or communications unless otherwise specified in the By-laws of the Corporation or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or the date such notice is mailed. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31  st   day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 1  ] 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION  
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 2  
  (Par Value $0.01 Per Share) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the    Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 

FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 2 
    
  (1)   Number of Shares and Designation  . 37,000 shares of the preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2 (hereinafter called the    Preferred Stock, Series 2   ). 
    
  (2)   Dividends  . (a) The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be entitled to receive, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), out of assets of the Corporation legally available under Delaware law for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate set forth below in this Section (2) applied to the amount of $30,000 per share. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), on February 28, May 28, August 28 and November 28 (the    Payment Dates      provided   that if any such Payment Date is not a New York Business Day and London Business Day, the Payment Date will be the next succeeding day that is a New York Business Day and London Business Day, unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Payment Date will be the immediately preceding New York Business Day and London Business Day. The dividend, if declared, for the initial Dividend Period (as defined below) shall be paid on February 28, 2009. Each such dividend shall be payable to the holders of record of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be a date not more than 30 days nor less than 10 days preceding the applicable Payment Dates, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof).    London Business Day    means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted, or with respect to any future date are expected to be transacted, in the London interbank market. A    New York Business Day    means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed. 
    
  (b) (i) Dividend periods (   Dividend Periods   ) shall commence on each Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on November 28, 2008) and shall end on and exclude the next succeeding Payment Date. The dividend rate on the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, for each Dividend Period shall be a floating rate   per annum   equal to three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 0.65%, but in no event will the rate be less than 3.00% per annum, of the $30,000 liquidation preference per share of Preferred Stock, Series 2. 
    
  The    three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR   , with respect to a Dividend Period, means the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period that normally appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, as displayed on page    BBAM    (British Bankers Association Official BBA LIBOR Fixings) in the Bloomberg Professional Service (or any other service that may replace Moneyline Telerate, Inc. on page BBAM or any other page that may replace page BBAM on the Bloomberg Professional Service or a successor service, in each case, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks) as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. 
    
  If three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR cannot be determined as described above, the Corporation will select four major banks in the London interbank market. The Corporation will request that the principal London offices of those four selected banks  

provide their offered quotations to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. These quotations will be for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period. Offered quotations must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. 
    
  If two or more quotations are provided, three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, the Corporation will select three major banks in New York City and will then determine three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of rates quoted by those three major banks in New York City to leading European banks at approximately 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. The rates quoted will be for loans in U.S. dollars, for a three month period. Rates quoted must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. If fewer than three New York City banks selected by the Corporation are quoting rates, three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the applicable period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Dividend Period. 
    
  (ii) Dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in each Dividend Period. Accordingly, the amount of dividends payable per share for each Dividend Period (including the initial Dividend Period) for the Preferred Stock, Series 2 shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) equal the product of (i) the applicable dividend rate, (ii) $30,000 and (iii) a fraction (A) the numerator of which will be the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period, and (B) the denominator of which will be 360. The amount of dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upwards. 
    
  (c) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 are outstanding, the Corporation may not declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire (except for purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such stock), or make a liquidation payment with respect to the preferred stock of the Corporation of any series and any other stock of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 2 unless for such Dividend Period full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, Series 2, all dividends declared upon shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) shall be declared   pro rata   so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Preferred Stock, Series 2, and all such other stock of the Corporation shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 (but without, in the case of any non-cumulative preferred stock, accumulation of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and all such other stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 are outstanding, the Corporation may not, at any time, declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2 unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period (except for (x) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 2 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (y) redemptions or purchases of any rights pursuant to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, adopted on December 2, 1997 or any agreement that replaces such Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, or by conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 2 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation and (z) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock);   provided  ,   however  , that the foregoing dividend preference shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2 in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid on the Preferred Stock, Series 2 in respect of any prior Dividend Period. If the full dividend on the Preferred Stock, Series 2 is not paid for any Dividend Period, the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2 will have no claim in respect of the unpaid amount so long as no dividend (other than those referred to above) is paid on the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 2 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 

(e) No dividends may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2 if at the same time any arrears exists in the payment of dividends on any outstanding class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking, as to the payment of dividends, prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2. 
    
  (f) Holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends, as herein provided, on the Preferred Stock, Series 2. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Preferred Stock, Series 2, which may be in arrears. 
    
  (3)   Liquidation Preference  . (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be entitled to receive $30,000 per share plus an amount equal to declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of undeclared dividends. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares of preferred stock ranking, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 2, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, and any such other preferred stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section (3), neither the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation, merger or combination of the Corporation into or with one or more corporations or the consolidation, merger or combination of any other corporation or entity into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for purposes of this Section (3). 
    
  (b) After payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2, as provided in this Section (3), the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2 will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2, as provided in this Section (3), but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
  (4)   Redemption  . (a) The Preferred Stock, Series 2, may not be redeemed prior to November 28, 2009. On and after November 28, 2009, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price of $30,000 per share, together in each case with declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may exercise the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 2 as a whole at any time without further action of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. The Corporation may only elect to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 2 in part pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. 
    
  (b) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. The Corporation's obligation to provide moneys in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the redemption date, the Corporation shall deposit with a bank or trust company (which may be an affiliate of the Corporation) having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, having a capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, funds necessary for such redemption, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such funds be applied to the redemption of the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, so called for redemption. Any interest accrued on such funds shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from such redemption date shall be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which the holder or holders  

of such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price. 
    
  Upon surrender, in accordance with said notice, of the certificates for any such shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, not previously called for redemption by lot or   pro rata   or by any other method determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) to be equitable. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  The Preferred Stock, Series 2 will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2 will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2. 
    
  (5)   Terms Dependent on Regulatory Changes  . If, (a) the Corporation (by election or otherwise) is subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,    Regulations   ) relating to its capital adequacy which Regulation (x) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  in, or pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation and implementing, the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or body, or (y) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital described in either (x) or (y) is referred to below as  Tier 1 Capital ), and (b) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) affirmatively elects to qualify the Preferred Stock, Series 2 for such Tier 1 Capital treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative restrictions on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 2 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) under such Regulations, then, upon such affirmative election, the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 shall automatically be amended to reflect the following modifications (without any action or consent by the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 or any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation): 
    
  (i) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision (as defined below), the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 2 on and after November 28, 2009 pursuant to Section 4 hereof shall be restricted (such restrictions including but not limited to any requirement that the Corporation receive prior approval for such redemption from any applicable governmental agency, authority or body or that such redemption be prohibited); 
    
  (ii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, the Corporation's right to make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make payments on, securities junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2 (upon a non-payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 2) shall become subject to additional restrictions (other than those set forth in Section 2(d) hereof) pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 2; and 
    
  (iii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, any other new provisions or terms shall be added to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, or existing terms shall be modified;   provided  ,   however  , that no such provision or term shall be added, and no such modification shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5(iii), if it would alter or change the rights, powers or preferences of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 so as to affect the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 adversely. 
    
  As used above, the term    Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision    means a term which is, in the written opinion of legal counsel of recognized standing and delivered to the Corporation, required for the Preferred Stock, Series 2 to be treated as Tier 1 Capital of the Corporation without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 2 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) pursuant to the applicable Regulations. The Corporation shall provide notice to holders of any Preferred Stock, Series 2 of any such changes in the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 2 made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5 on or about the date of effectiveness of any such modification and shall maintain a copy of such notice on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. A copy of the relevant Regulations shall also be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to such holders. 
    
  (6)   Voting Rights  . The Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall have no voting rights, except as hereinafter set forth or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 

The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 150 votes. 
    
  Whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 2, have not been declared or paid for such number of Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, which in the aggregate is equivalent to six Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment   ), the holders of outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall have the exclusive right, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 2, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (to the extent such other series of preferred stock are entitled to vote pursuant to the terms thereof), to vote for the election of two additional directors at the next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders on the terms set forth below. At elections for such directors, each holder of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be entitled to three votes for each share of Preferred Stock, Series 2 held (the holders of shares of any other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock held as may be granted to them). 
    
  Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, (either alone or together with the holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity) as hereinafter set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity, to elect members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as aforesaid shall continue until all dividends on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall have been paid in full for at least four Dividend Periods following the Nonpayment. Upon payment in full of such dividends, such voting rights shall terminate except as expressly provided by law, subject to re-vesting in the event of each and every subsequent Nonpayment in the payment of dividends as aforesaid. 
    
  Upon termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, to vote for directors as provided in the previous paragraph, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders will terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders voting as a class may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting rights shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions hereof. 
    
  So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, remain outstanding, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, outstanding at the time (voting as a class with all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 2, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable), given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or 
    
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 2, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, or of the holders thereof;   provided  ,   however  , that any increase in the amount of issued Preferred Stock, Series 2 or authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends were cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
  Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 2: 

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 2 that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Preferred Stock, Series 2 that is not inconsistent with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 2. 
    
  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2 (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents, and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Preferred Stock, Series 2 are listed at the time. 
    
  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such a redemption which is scheduled to be consummated within three months after the time that such rights would otherwise be exercisable. 
    
  (7)   Record Holders  . The Corporation and the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock, Series 2, may deem and treat the record holder of any share of such Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  (8)   Ranking  . Any class or classes of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (i) on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 2, as to dividends or as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, if the holders of such class of stock and the Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) or liquidation prices, without preference or priority one over the other; and 
    
  (ii) junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 2, as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such stock shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such stock. 
    
  (iii) The Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1,   6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5,   6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6,   6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7,   8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8,   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,   6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F,   Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,   8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,   6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,  and  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M,  and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 2, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, shall be deemed to rank on a parity with the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 2, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (9)   Exclusion of Other Rights  . Unless otherwise required by law, shares of Preferred Stock, Series 2, shall not have any rights, including preemptive rights, or preferences other than those specifically set forth herein or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  (10)   Notices  . All notices or communications unless otherwise specified in the By-laws of the Corporation or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or the date such notice is mailed. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31  st   day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 2  ] 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION  
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  6.375% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 3  
  (Par Value $0.01 Per Share) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the    Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  6.375% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 3 
    
  (1)   Number of Shares and Designation  . 27,000 shares of the preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as 6.375% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3 (hereinafter called the    Preferred Stock, Series 3   ). 
    
  (2)   Dividends  . (a) The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be entitled to receive, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), out of assets of the Corporation legally available under Delaware law for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate set forth below in this Section (2) applied to the amount of $30,000 per share. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, as, if and 
  when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), on February 28, May 28, August 28 and November 28 (the    Payment Dates   ) commencing on February 28, 2009; provided that if any such Payment Date is not a New York Business Day, the Payment Date will be the next succeeding day that is a New York Business Day. Each such dividend shall be payable to the holders of record of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be a date not more than 30 days nor less than 10 days preceding the applicable Payment Dates, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof). A  New York Business Day  means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed. 
    
  (b) (i) Dividend periods (   Dividend Periods   ) shall commence on each Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on November 28, 2008) and shall end on and exclude the next succeeding Payment Date. The dividend rate on the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, for each Dividend Period shall be 6.375% per annum, of the $30,000 liquidation preference per share of Preferred Stock, Series 3. 
    
  (ii) The amount of dividends payable for each full Dividend Period (including the initial Dividend Period) for the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be computed by dividing the dividend rate of 6.375% per annum by four and applying the resulting rate to the amount of $30,000 per share. The amount of dividends payable for any period shorter than a full Dividend Period on the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be computed on the basis of 30-day months, a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in any period of less than one month. The amount of dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upwards. 
    
  (c) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 are outstanding, the Corporation may not declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire (except for purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such stock), or make a liquidation payment with respect to the preferred stock of the Corporation of any series and any other stock of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 3 unless for such Dividend Period full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, Series 3, all dividends declared upon shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, and any other  

preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Preferred Stock, Series 3, and all such other stock of the Corporation shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 (but without, in the case of any non-cumulative preferred stock, accumulation of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and all such other stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 are outstanding, the Corporation may not, at any time, declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3 unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period (except for (x) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 3 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (y) redemptions or purchases of any rights pursuant to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, adopted on December 2, 1997 or any agreement that replaces such Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, or by conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 3 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation and (z) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock);   provided  ,   however  , that the foregoing dividend preference shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3 in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid on the Preferred Stock, Series 3 in respect of any prior Dividend Period. If the full dividend on the Preferred Stock, Series 3 is not paid for any Dividend Period, the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3 will have no claim in respect of the unpaid amount so long as no dividend (other than those referred to above) is paid on the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 3 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (e) No dividends may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3 if at the same time any arrears exists in the payment of dividends on any outstanding class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking, as to the payment of dividends, prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3. 
    
  (f) Holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends, as herein provided, on the Preferred Stock, Series 3. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Preferred Stock, Series 3, which may be in arrears. 
    
  (3)   Liquidation Preference  . (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3, upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be entitled to receive $30,000 per share plus an amount equal to declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of undeclared dividends. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares of preferred stock ranking, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 3, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, and any such other preferred stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section (3), neither the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation, merger or combination of the Corporation into or with one or more corporations or the consolidation, merger or combination of any other corporation or entity into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for purposes of this Section (3). 
    
  (b) After payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3, as provided in this Section (3), the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3 will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3, as provided in this Section (3), but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred  

Stock, Series 3, shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
  (4)   Redemption  . (a) The Preferred Stock, Series 3, may not be redeemed prior to November 28, 2010. On and after November 28, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price of $30,000 per share, together in each case with declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may exercise the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 3 as a whole at any time without further action of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. The Corporation may only elect to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 3 in part pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. 
    
  (b) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. The Corporation's obligation to provide moneys in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the redemption date, the Corporation shall deposit with a bank or trust company (which may be an affiliate of the Corporation) having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, having a capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, funds necessary for such redemption, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such funds be applied to the redemption of the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, so called for redemption. Any interest accrued on such funds shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from such redemption date shall be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which the holder or holders of such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price. 
    
  Upon surrender, in accordance with said notice, of the certificates for any such shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, not previously called for redemption by lot or pro rata or by any other method determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) to be equitable. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  The Preferred Stock, Series 3 will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3 will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3. 
    
  (5)   Terms Dependent on Regulatory Changes  . If, (a) the Corporation (by election or otherwise) is subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,    Regulations   ) relating to its capital adequacy which Regulation (x) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  in, or pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation and implementing, the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or body, or (y) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital described in either (x) or (y) is referred to below as  Tier 1 Capital ), and (b) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) affirmatively elects to qualify the Preferred Stock, Series 3 for such Tier 1 Capital treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative restrictions on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 3 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) under such Regulations, then, upon such affirmative election, the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 shall automatically be amended to reflect the following modifications (without any action or consent by the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 or any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation): 

(i) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision (as defined below), the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 3 on and after November 28, 2010 pursuant to Section 3 hereof shall be restricted (such restrictions including but not limited to any requirement that the Corporation receive prior approval for such redemption from any applicable governmental agency, authority or body or that such redemption be prohibited); 
    
  (ii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, the Corporation's right to make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make payments on, securities junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3 (upon a non-payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 3) shall become subject to additional restrictions (other than those set forth in Section 2(d) hereof) pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 3; and 
    
  (iii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, any other new provisions or terms shall be added to the Preferred Stock, Series 3, or existing terms shall be modified; provided, however, that no such provision or term shall be added, and no such modification shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5(iii), if it would alter or change the rights, powers or preferences of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 so as to affect the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 adversely. 
    
  As used above, the term    Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision    means a term which is, in the written opinion of legal counsel of recognized standing and delivered to the Corporation, required for the Preferred Stock, Series 3 to be treated as Tier 1 Capital of the Corporation without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 3 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) pursuant to the applicable Regulations. The Corporation shall provide notice to holders of any Preferred Stock, Series 3 of any such changes in the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 3 made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5 on or about the date of effectiveness of any such modification and shall maintain a copy of such notice on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. A copy of the relevant Regulations shall also be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to such holders. 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt,    amend   ,    modify   ,    change    and words of similar effect used in this Section (5) mean that the Preferred Stock, Series 3 shall have such additional or different rights, powers and preferences, and such qualifications, limitations and restrictions as may be established by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) pursuant to this Section (5), subject to the limitations set forth herein. 
    
  (6)   Voting Rights  . The Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall have no voting rights, except as hereinafter set forth or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 150 votes. 
    
  Whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 3, have not been declared or paid for such number of Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, which in the aggregate is equivalent to six Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment   ), the holders of outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall have the exclusive right, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 3, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (to the extent such other series of preferred stock are entitled to vote pursuant to the terms thereof), to vote for the election of two additional directors at the next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders on the terms set forth below. At elections for such directors, each holder of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be entitled to three votes for each share of Preferred Stock, Series 3 held (the holders of shares of any other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, (either alone or together with the holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity) as hereinafter set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity, to elect members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as aforesaid shall continue until all dividends on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall have been paid in full for at least four Dividend Periods following the Nonpayment. Upon payment in full of such dividends, such voting rights shall terminate except as expressly provided by law, subject to re-vesting in the event of each and every subsequent Nonpayment in the payment of dividends as aforesaid. 
    
  Upon termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, to vote for directors as provided in the previous paragraph, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders will terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement,  

disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders voting as a class may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting rights shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions hereof. 
    
  So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, remain outstanding, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, outstanding at the time (voting as a class with all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 3, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable), given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3, with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or 
    
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 3, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, or of the holders thereof;   provided,however  , that any increase in the amount of issued Preferred Stock, Series 3 or authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends were cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
  Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 3: 
    
  (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 3 that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Preferred Stock, Series 3 that is not inconsistent with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 3. 
    
  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3 (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents, and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Preferred Stock, Series 3 are listed at the time. 
    
  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such a redemption which is scheduled to be consummated within three months after the time that such rights would otherwise be exercisable. 
    
  (7)   Record Holders  . The Corporation and the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock, Series 3, may deem and treat the record holder of any share of such Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  (8)   Ranking  . Any class or classes of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (i) on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 3, as to dividends or as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, if the holders of such class of stock and the Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) or liquidation prices, without preference or priority one over the other; and 

(ii) junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 3, as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such stock shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such stock. 
    
  (iii) The Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5,   6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6,   6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7,   8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8,   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,   6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F,   Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,   8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,   6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,  and  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M,  and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 3, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, shall be deemed to rank on a parity with the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 3, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (9)   Exclusion of Other Rights  . Unless otherwise required by law, shares of Preferred Stock, Series 3, shall not have any rights, including preemptive rights, or preferences other than those specifically set forth herein or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  (10)   Notices  . All notices or communications unless otherwise specified in the By-laws of the Corporation or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or the date such notice is mailed.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31  st   day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 3  ] 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION  
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 4  
  (Par Value $0.01 Per Share) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the    Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 4 
    
  (1)   Number of Shares and Designation  . 20,000 shares of the preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4 (hereinafter called the    Preferred Stock, Series 4   ). 
    
  (2)   Dividends  . (a) The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be entitled to receive, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), out of assets of the Corporation legally available under Delaware law for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate set forth below in this Section (2) applied to the amount of $30,000 per share. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), on February 28, May 28, August 28 and November 28 (the    Payment Dates   ) commencing on February 28, 2009;   provided   that if any such Payment Date is not a New York Business Day and London Business Day, the Payment Date will be the next succeeding day that is a New York Business Day and London Business Day, unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Payment Date will be the immediately preceding New York Business Day and London Business Day. Each such dividend shall be payable to the holders of record of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be a date not more than 30 days nor less than 10 days preceding the applicable Payment Dates, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof).    London Business Day    means a day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted, or with respect to any future date are expected to be transacted, in the London interbank market. A    New York        Business Day    means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed. 
    
  (b) (i) Dividend periods (   Dividend Periods   ) shall commence on each Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on November 28, 2008) and shall end on and exclude the next succeeding Payment Date. The dividend rate on the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, for each Dividend Period shall be a floating rate   per annum   equal to three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR plus 0.75%, but in no event will the rate be less than 4.00%   per annum  , of the $30,000 liquidation preference per share of Preferred Stock, Series 4. 
    
  The    three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR   , with respect to a Dividend Period, means the rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period that normally appears on Moneyline Telerate Page 3750, as displayed on page    BBAM    (British Bankers Association Official BBA LIBOR Fixings) in the Bloomberg Professional Service (or any other service that may replace Moneyline Telerate, Inc. on page BBAM or any other page that may replace page BBAM on the Bloomberg Professional Service or a successor service, in each case, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks) as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. 
    
  If three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR cannot be determined as described above, the Corporation will select four major banks in the London interbank market. The Corporation will request that the principal London offices of those four selected banks provide their offered quotations to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on  

the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. These quotations will be for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period. Offered quotations must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. 
    
  If two or more quotations are provided, three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, the Corporation will select three major banks in New York City and will then determine three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of rates quoted by those three major banks in New York City to leading European banks at approximately 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. The rates quoted will be for loans in U.S. dollars, for a three month period. Rates quoted must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. If fewer than three New York City banks selected by the Corporation are quoting rates, three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the applicable period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Dividend Period. 
    
  (ii) Dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in each Dividend Period. Accordingly, the amount of dividends payable per share for each Dividend Period (including the initial Dividend Period) for the Preferred Stock, Series 4 shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) equal the product of (i) the applicable dividend rate, (ii) $30,000 and (iii) a fraction (A) the numerator of which will be the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period, and (B) the denominator of which will be 360. The amount of dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upwards. 
    
  (c) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 are outstanding, the Corporation may not declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire (except for purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such stock), or make a liquidation payment with respect to the preferred stock of the Corporation of any series and any other stock of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 4 unless for such Dividend Period full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, Series 4, all dividends declared upon shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) shall be declared  pro rata   so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Preferred Stock, Series 4, and all such other stock of the Corporation shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 (but without, in the case of any non-cumulative preferred stock, accumulation of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and all such other stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 are outstanding, the Corporation may not, at any time, declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4 unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period (except for (x) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 4 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (y) redemptions or purchases of any rights pursuant to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, adopted on December 2, 1997 or any agreement that replaces such Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, or by conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 4 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation and (z) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock);   provided  ,   however  , that the foregoing dividend preference shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4 in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid on the Preferred Stock, Series 4 in respect of any prior Dividend Period. If the full dividend on the Preferred Stock, Series 4 is not paid for any Dividend Period, the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4 will have no claim in respect of the unpaid amount so long as no dividend (other than those referred to above) is paid on the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 4 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (e) No dividends may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4 if at the same time any arrears exists in the payment of dividends on any outstanding class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking, as to the payment of dividends, prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4. 

(f) Holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends, as herein provided, on the Preferred Stock, Series 4. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Preferred Stock, Series 4, which may be in arrears. 
    
  (3)   Liquidation Preference  . (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be entitled to receive $30,000 per share plus an amount equal to declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of undeclared dividends. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares of preferred stock ranking, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 4, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, and any such other preferred stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section (3), neither the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation, merger or combination of the Corporation into or with one or more corporations or the consolidation, merger or combination of any other corporation or entity into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for purposes of this Section (3). 
    
  (b) After payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4, as provided in this Section (3), the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4 will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4, as provided in this Section (3), but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
  (4)   Redemption  . (a) The Preferred Stock, Series 4, may not be redeemed prior to November 28, 2010. On and after November 28, 2010, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price of $30,000 per share, together in each case with declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may exercise the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 4 as a whole at any time without further action of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. The Corporation may only elect to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 4 in part pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. 
    
  (b) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. The Corporation's obligation to provide moneys in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the redemption date, the Corporation shall deposit with a bank or trust company (which may be an affiliate of the Corporation) having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, having a capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, funds necessary for such redemption, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such funds be applied to the redemption of the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, so called for redemption. Any interest accrued on such funds shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from such redemption date shall be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which the holder or holders of such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price. 

Upon surrender, in accordance with said notice, of the certificates for any such shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, not previously called for redemption by lot or   pro rata   or by any other method determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) to be equitable. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. The Preferred Stock, Series 4 will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4 will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4. 
    
  (5)   Terms Dependent on Regulatory Changes  . If, (a) the Corporation (by election or otherwise) is subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,    Regulations   ) relating to its capital adequacy which Regulation (x) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  in, or pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation and implementing, the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or body, or (y) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital described in either (x) or (y) is referred to below as    Tier 1 Capital   ), and (b) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) affirmatively elects to qualify the Preferred Stock, Series 4 for such Tier 1 Capital treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative restrictions on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 4 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) under such Regulations, then, upon such affirmative election, the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 shall automatically be amended to reflect the following modifications (without any action or consent by the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 or any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation): 
    
  (i) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision (as defined below), the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 4 on and after November 28, 2010 pursuant to Section 4 hereof shall be restricted (such restrictions including but not limited to any requirement that the Corporation receive prior approval for such redemption from any applicable governmental agency, authority or body or that such redemption be prohibited); 
    
  (ii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, the Corporation's right to make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make payments on, securities junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4 (upon a non-payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 4) shall become subject to additional restrictions (other than those set forth in Section 2(d) hereof) pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 4; and 
    
  (iii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, any other new provisions or terms shall be added to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, or existing terms shall be modified;   provided  ,   however  , that no such provision or term shall be added, and no such modification shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5(iii), if it would alter or change the rights, powers or preferences of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 so as to affect the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 adversely. 
    
  As used above, the term    Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision    means a term which is, in the written opinion of legal counsel of recognized standing and delivered to the Corporation, required for the Preferred Stock, Series 4 to be treated as Tier 1 Capital of the Corporation without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 4 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) pursuant to the applicable Regulations. The Corporation shall provide notice to holders of any Preferred Stock, Series 4 of any such changes in the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 4 made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5 on or about the date of effectiveness of any such modification and shall maintain a copy of such notice on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. A copy of the relevant Regulations shall also be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to such holders. 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt,    amend   ,    modify   ,    change    and words of similar effect used in this Section (5) mean that the Preferred Stock, Series 4 shall have such additional or different rights, powers and preferences, and such qualifications, limitations and restrictions as may be established by the Board of directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) pursuant to this Section (5), subject to the limitations set forth herein. 
    
  (6)   Voting Rights  . The Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall have no voting rights, except as hereinafter set forth or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 

The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 150 votes. 
    
  Whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 4, have not been declared or paid for such number of Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, which in the aggregate is equivalent to six Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment   ), the holders of outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall have the exclusive right, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 4, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (to the extent such other series of preferred stock are entitled to vote pursuant to the terms thereof), to vote for the election of two additional directors at the next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders on the terms set forth below. At elections for such directors, each holder of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be entitled to three votes for each share of Preferred Stock, Series 4 held (the holders of shares of any other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, (either alone or together with the holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity) as hereinafter set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity, to elect members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as aforesaid shall continue until all dividends on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall have been paid in full for at least four Dividend Periods following the Nonpayment. Upon payment in full of such dividends, such voting rights shall terminate except as expressly provided by law, subject to re-vesting in the event of each and every subsequent Nonpayment in the payment of dividends as aforesaid. 
    
  Upon termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, to vote for directors as provided in the previous paragraph, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders will terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders voting as a class may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting rights shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions hereof. 
    
  So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, remain outstanding, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, outstanding at the time (voting as a class with all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 4, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable), given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or 
    
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 4, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, or of the holders thereof;   provided  ,   however  , that any increase in the amount of issued Preferred Stock, Series 4 or authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends were cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
  Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 4: 
    
  (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 4 that may be defective or inconsistent; or 

(ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Preferred Stock, Series 4 that is not inconsistent with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 4. 
    
  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4 (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents, and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Preferred Stock, Series 4 are listed at the time. 
    
  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such a redemption which is scheduled to be consummated within three months after the time that such rights would otherwise be exercisable. 
    
  (7)   Record Holders  . The Corporation and the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock, Series 4, may deem and treat the record holder of any share of such Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  (8)   Ranking  . Any class or classes of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (i) on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 4, as to dividends or as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, if the holders of such class of stock and the Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) or liquidation prices, without preference or priority one over the other; and 
    
  (ii) junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 4, as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such stock shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such stock. 
    
  (iii) The Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1  and  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2  and the Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5,   6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6,   6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7,   8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8,   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,   6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D   Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F,   Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,   8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,   6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,  and  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M,  and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 4, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, , shall be deemed to rank on a parity with the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 4, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (9)   Exclusion of Other Rights  . Unless otherwise required by law, shares of Preferred Stock, Series 4, shall not have any rights, including preemptive rights, or preferences other than those specifically set forth herein or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  (10)   Notices  . All notices or communications unless otherwise specified in the By-laws of the Corporation or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or the date such notice is mailed. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31   st    day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 4  ] 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 5  
  (Par Value $0.01 Per Share) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the 
  State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the    Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 

FLOATING RATE NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 5 
    
  (1)   Number of Shares and Designation  . 50,000 shares of the preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5 (hereinafter called the    Preferred Stock, Series 5   ). 
    
  (2)   Dividends  . (a) The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be entitled to receive, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), out of assets of the Corporation legally available under Delaware law for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate set forth below in this Section (2) applied to the amount of $30,000 per share. Such dividends shall be payable quarterly, in arrears, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), on February 21, May 21, August 21 and November 21 (the    Payment Dates   ) commencing on February 21, 2009; provided that if any such Payment Date is not a New York Business Day and London Business Day, the Payment Date will be the next succeeding day that is a New York Business Day and London Business Day, unless such day falls in the next calendar month, in which case the Payment Date will be the immediately preceding New York Business Day and London Business Day. Each such dividend shall be payable to the holders of record of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be a date not more than 30 days nor less than 10 days preceding the applicable Payment Dates, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof).    London Business Day    means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday on which dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars are transacted, or with respect to any future date are expected to be transacted, in the London interbank market. A    New York        Business Day    means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed. 
    
  (b) (i) Dividend periods (   Dividend Periods   ) shall commence on each Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on November 21, 2008) and shall end on and exclude the next succeeding Payment Date. The dividend rate on the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5 for each Dividend Period shall be a floating rate per annum equal to three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR plus .50%, but in no event will the rate be less than 4.00% per annum, of the $30,000 liquidation preference per share of Preferred Stock, Series 5. 
    
  The  three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR , with respect to a Dividend Period, means the rate (expressed as a percentage per annum) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period that normally appears on Telerate Page 3750, as displayed on page  BBAM  (British Bankers Association Official BBA LIBOR Fixings) in the Bloomberg Professional Service (or any other service that may replace Telerate, Inc. on page BBAM or any other page that may replace page BBAM on the Bloomberg Professional Service or a successor service, in each case, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates of major banks) as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. 

If three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR cannot be determined as described above, the Corporation will select four major banks in the London interbank market. The Corporation will request that the principal London offices of those four selected banks provide their offered quotations to prime banks in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. These quotations will be for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three month period. Offered quotations must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. 
    
  If two or more quotations are provided, three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean of the quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, the Corporation will select three major banks in New York City and will then determine three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the Dividend Period as the arithmetic mean of rates quoted by those three major banks in New York City to leading European banks at approximately 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the second London Business Day immediately preceding the first day of such Dividend Period. The rates quoted will be for loans in U.S. dollars, for a three month period. Rates quoted must be based on a principal amount equal to an amount that is representative of a single transaction in U.S. dollars in the market at the time. If fewer than three New York City banks selected by the Corporation are quoting rates, three-month U.S. dollar LIBOR for the applicable period will be the same as for the immediately preceding Dividend Period. 
    
  (ii) Dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in each Dividend Period. Accordingly, the amount of dividends payable per share for each Dividend Period (including the initial Dividend Period) for the Preferred Stock, Series 5 shall (if and when declared, as herein provided) equal the product of (i) the applicable dividend rate, (ii) $30,000 and (iii) a fraction (A) the numerator of which will be the actual number of days elapsed in such Dividend Period, and (B) the denominator of which will be 360. The amount of dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upwards. 
    
  (c) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 are outstanding, the Corporation may not declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire (except for purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such stock), or make a liquidation payment with respect to the preferred stock of the Corporation of any series and any other stock of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 5 unless for such Dividend Period full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, Series 5, all dividends declared upon shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Preferred Stock, Series 5, and all such other stock of the Corporation shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 (but without, in the case of any non-cumulative preferred stock, accumulation of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and all such other stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 are outstanding, the Corporation may not, at any time, declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5 unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period (except for (x) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 5 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (y) redemptions or purchases of any rights pursuant to the Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, adopted on December 2, 1997 or any agreement that replaces such Amended and Restated Rights Agreement, or by conversion or exchange for the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 5 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation and (z) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock);   provided  ,   however  , that the foregoing dividend preference shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5 in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid on the Preferred Stock, Series 5 in respect of any prior Dividend Period. If the full dividend on the Preferred Stock, Series 5 is not paid for any Dividend Period, the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5 will have no claim in respect of the unpaid amount so long as no dividend (other than those referred to above) is paid on the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 5 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 

(e) No dividends may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5 if at the same time any arrears exists in the payment of dividends on any outstanding class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking, as to the payment of dividends, prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5. 
    
  (f) Holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends, as herein provided, on the Preferred Stock, Series 5. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Preferred Stock, Series 5, which may be in arrears. 
    
  (3)   Liquidation Preference  . (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be entitled to receive $30,000 per share plus an amount equal to declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of undeclared dividends. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares of preferred stock ranking, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 5, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, and any such other preferred stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section (3), neither the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation, merger or combination of the Corporation into or with one or more corporations or the consolidation, merger or combination of any other corporation or entity into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (b) After payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5, as provided in this Section (3), the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5 will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5, as provided in this Section (3), but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall not be entitled to share therein. 
    
  (4)   Redemption  . (a) The Preferred Stock, Series 5, may not be redeemed prior to May 21, 2012. On and after May 21, 2012, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price of $30,000 per share, together in each case with declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may exercise the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 5 as a whole at any time without further action of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. The Corporation may only elect to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 5 in part pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. 
    
  (b) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. The Corporation's obligation to provide moneys in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the redemption date, the Corporation shall deposit with a bank or trust company (which may be an affiliate of the Corporation) having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, having a capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, funds necessary for such redemption, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such funds be applied to the redemption of the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, so called for redemption. Any interest accrued on such funds shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from such redemption date shall be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which the holder or holders  

of such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price. 
    
  Upon surrender, in accordance with said notice, of the certificates for any such shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, not previously called for redemption by lot or   pro rata   or by any other method determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) to be equitable. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. The Preferred Stock, Series 5 will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5 will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5. 
    
  (5)   Terms Dependent on Regulatory Changes  . If, (a) the Corporation (by election or otherwise) is subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,    Regulations   ) relating to its capital adequacy which Regulation (x) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  in, or pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation and implementing, the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or body, or (y) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital described in either (x) or (y) is referred to below as  Tier 1 Capital ), and (b) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) affirmatively elects to qualify the Preferred Stock, Series 5 for such Tier 1 Capital treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative restrictions on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 5 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) under such Regulations, then, upon such affirmative election, the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 shall automatically be amended to reflect the following modifications (without any action or consent by the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 or any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation): 
    
  (i) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision (as defined below), the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 5 on and after May 21, 2012 pursuant to Section 5 hereof shall be restricted (such restrictions including but not limited to any requirement that the Corporation receive prior approval for such redemption from any applicable governmental agency, authority or body or that such redemption be prohibited); 
    
  (ii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, the Corporation's right to make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make payments on, securities junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5 (upon a non-payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 5) shall become subject to additional restrictions (other than those set forth in Section 2(d) hereof) pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 5; and 
    
  (iii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, any other new provisions or terms shall be added to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, or existing terms shall be modified;   provided  ,   however  , that no such provision or term shall be added, and no such modification shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5(iii), if it would alter or change the rights, powers or preferences of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 so as to affect the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 adversely. 
    
  As used above, the term    Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision    means a term which is, in the written opinion of legal counsel of recognized standing and delivered to the Corporation, required for the Preferred Stock, Series 5 to be treated as Tier 1 Capital of the Corporation without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 5 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) pursuant to the applicable Regulations. The Corporation shall provide notice to holders of any Preferred Stock, Series 5 of any such changes in the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 5 made pursuant to the terms of this Section 5 on or about the date of effectiveness of any such modification and shall maintain a copy of such notice on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. A copy of the relevant Regulations shall also be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to such holders. 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt,  amend ,  modify ,  change  and words of similar effect used in this Section (5) mean that the Preferred Stock, Series 5 shall have such additional or different rights, powers and preferences, and such qualifications, limitations and restrictions as may be established by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) pursuant to this Section (5), subject to the limitations set forth herein. 

(6)   Voting Rights  . The Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall have no voting rights, except as hereinafter set forth or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 150 votes. 
    
  Whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 5, have not been declared or paid for such number of Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, which in the aggregate is equivalent to six Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment   ), the holders of outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall have the exclusive right, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 5, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (to the extent such other series of preferred stock are entitled to vote pursuant to the terms thereof), to vote for the election of two additional directors at the next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders on the terms set forth below. At elections for such directors, each holder of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be entitled to three votes for each share of Preferred Stock, Series 5 held (the holders of shares of any other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, (either alone or together with the holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity) as hereinafter set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity, to elect members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as aforesaid shall continue until all dividends on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall have been paid in full for at least four Dividend Periods following the Nonpayment. Upon payment in full of such dividends, such voting rights shall terminate except as expressly provided by law, subject to re-vesting in the event of each and every subsequent Nonpayment in the payment of dividends as aforesaid. 
    
  Upon termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, to vote for directors as provided in the previous paragraph, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders will terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders voting as a class may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting rights shall have expired, the number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions hereof. 
    
  So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, remain outstanding, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, outstanding at the time (voting as a class with all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 5, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable), given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or 
    
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 5, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, or of the holders thereof;   provided  ,   however  , that any increase in the amount of issued Preferred Stock, Series 5 or authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends were cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
  Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 5: 

(i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 5 that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Preferred Stock, Series 5 that is not inconsistent with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 5. 
    
  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5 (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents, and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Preferred Stock, Series 5 are listed at the time. 
    
  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such a redemption which is scheduled to be consummated within three months after the time that such rights would otherwise be exercisable. 
    
  (7)   Record Holders  . The Corporation and the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock, Series 5, may deem and treat the record holder of any share of such Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  (8)   Ranking  . Any class or classes of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (i) on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 5, as to dividends or as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, if the holders of such class of stock and the Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) or liquidation prices, without preference or priority one over the other; and 
    
  (ii) junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 5, as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such stock shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such stock. 
    
  (iii) The Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2,   6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4,   6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6,   6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7,   8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8,   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,   6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F,   Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,   8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,   6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,  and  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M,  and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 5, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, shall be deemed to rank on a parity with the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 5, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (9)   Exclusion of Other Rights  . Unless otherwise required by law, shares of Preferred Stock, Series 5, shall not have any rights, including preemptive rights, or preferences other than those specifically set forth herein or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  (10)   Notices  . All notices or communications unless otherwise specified in the By-laws of the Corporation or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or the date such notice is mailed. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31  st   day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 5  ] 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  6.70% NONCUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 6 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of preferred stock of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, such series to be designated 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6, to consist of 65,000 shares (the    Series 6 Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  Section 1.   Liquidation Value  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock at the time outstanding will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to the Series 6 Preferred Stock in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $1,000 per share, plus any dividends declared thereon and not yet paid prior to the date of liquidation. 
    
  After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation. In the event that, upon any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the available assets of the Corporation are insufficient to pay the full amount of the liquidating distributions on all outstanding Series 6 Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable on all shares of other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity with the Series 6 Preferred Stock in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, then the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock and such other classes or series of capital stock ranking on a parity with the Series 6 Preferred Stock shall share ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to the full liquidating distributions to which they otherwise respectively would be entitled. 
    
  For the purposes of this Section 1, the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other entity, or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property or business of the Corporation, shall not be deemed to constitute the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.   Dividends  . 
    
  (a)   Payment of Dividends  . Holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, when and as authorized and declared by the Board of Directors, out of assets of the Corporation legally available therefor, cash dividends at an annual rate of 6.70% of the $1,000 liquidation preference per share (equivalent to $67.00 per share per annum), and no more. Such noncumulative cash dividends shall be payable, if authorized and declared, quarterly on March 30, June 30, September 30 and December 30 of each year, or, if any such day is not a Business Day (as defined herein), on the preceding Business Day (each such date,    Dividend Payment Date   ). Each authorized and declared dividend shall be payable to holders of record of the Series 6 Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock books of the Corporation at the close of business on such record date, not more than 45 calendar days nor less than 10 calendar days preceding the Dividend Payment Date therefor, as may be determined by the Board of Directors (each such date, a    Record Date      provided  ,   however  , that if the date fixed for redemption of any of the Series 6 Preferred Stock occurs after a dividend is authorized and declared but before it is paid, such dividend shall be paid as part of the redemption price to the person to whom the redemption price is paid. Quarterly dividend periods (each, a    Dividend        Period   ) shall commence on and include the first day of each Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on December 30, 2008), and shall end on and include the last day, of the quarterly period in which the corresponding Dividend Payment Date occurs. 
    
  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period which, as to any share of Series 6 Preferred Stock (determined by reference to the issuance date and the redemption or retirement date thereof), is greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of the number of days elapsed in the period using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  Holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any interest, or any sum of money in lieu of interest, in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Series 6 Preferred Stock authorized and declared by the Board of Directors that may be unpaid. 

(b)   Dividends Noncumulative  . The right of holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock to receive dividends is noncumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors does not authorize or declare a dividend payable in respect of any Dividend Period, holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive a dividend in respect of such Dividend Period and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay a dividend in respect of such Dividend Period, whether or not dividends are authorized and declared payable in respect of any prior or subsequent Dividend Period. 
    
  (c)   Priority as to Dividends; Limitations on Dividends on Junior Equity  . If full dividends on the Series 6 Preferred Stock for a completed Dividend Period shall not have been declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof shall not have been set apart for such payments, no dividends or distributions shall be authorized, declared or paid or set aside for payment (other than as provided in the second paragraph of this Section 2(c)) during the next subsequent Dividend Period with respect to the Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series 6 Preferred Stock as to dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation (together with the Common Stock,    Junior Equity   ) or any stock on parity with the Series 6 Preferred Stock as to dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation (   Parity Stock   ), nor shall any Junior Equity or Parity Stock be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any monies to be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such stock) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for other Junior Equity), until such time as dividends on all outstanding Series 6 Preferred Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods have been paid in full. 
    
  When dividends are not paid in full (or a sum sufficient for such full payment is not so set apart) for any Dividend Period on the Series 6 Preferred Stock, all dividends declared on the Series 6 Preferred Stock and any other series ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series 6 Preferred Stock shall be declared   pro rata   so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Series 6 Preferred Stock and each such other series of capital stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that full dividends, for such Dividend Period, per share of Series 6 Preferred Stock (which shall not include any accumulation in respect of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and full dividends, including required or permitted accumulations, if any, on the stock of each other series ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series 6 Preferred Stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation shall not authorize or issue any class or series of stock with a preference as to payment of distributions or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up that is senior in right to the preferences of the Series 6 Preferred Stock as to payment of distributions or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. 
    
  (e) Any reference to  dividends  or  distributions  in this Section 2 shall not be deemed to include any distribution made in connection with any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 3.   Optional Redemption  . The Series 6 Preferred Stock will not be redeemable prior to February 3, 2009. On or after February 3, 2009, the Series 6 Preferred Stock will be redeemable at the option of the Corporation, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a cash redemption price equal to the sum of the liquidation preference thereof plus the amount of the declared and unpaid dividends thereon from the beginning of the Dividend Period in which the redemption occurs to the date of redemption. 
    
  In the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the number of shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board of Directors, and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or   pro rata   as may be determined by the Board of Directors or by any other method as may be determined by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion to be equitable,   provided   that such method satisfies any applicable requirements of any securities exchange (if any) on which the shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock are then listed. 
    
  Unless full dividends on the Series 6 Preferred Stock in respect of the most recently completed Dividend Period have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or full dividends have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for payment in respect of the most recently completed Dividend Period, no Series 6 Preferred Stock shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock are redeemed and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any Series 6 Preferred Stock;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation may purchase or acquire Series 6 Preferred Stock pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding Series 6 Preferred Stock. 
    
  The Corporation will give notice of redemption of the Series 6 Preferred Stock by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior to the redemption date. A failure to give such notice or any defect in the notice or in the Corporation's mailing will not affect the validity of the proceedings for the given redemption of any Series 6 Preferred Stock except as to the holder to whom notice was defective or not given. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the redemption price and (iii) the number of shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock to be redeemed. 

A notice by the Corporation pursuant to this Section 3 shall be sufficiently given if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each record holder of Series 6 Preferred Stock at the holder's address as it appears in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent. In any case where notice is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice nor any defect in the notice to any particular holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice, to any other holder. Any notice mailed to a holder in the manner described above shall be deemed given on the date mailed, whether or not the holder actually receives the notice. A notice of redemption shall be given not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date of redemption specified in the notice, and shall specify (i) the redemption date, (ii) the number of Series 6 Preferred Stock to be redeemed, (iii) the redemption price and (iv) the manner in which holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock called for redemption may obtain payment of the redemption price in respect of those shares. 
    
  Any shares of Series 6 Preferred Stock that are duly called for redemption pursuant to this Section 3 shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose from and after that time that the Corporation shall have irrevocably deposited with the paying agent identified in the notice of redemption funds in an amount equal to the aggregate redemption price. From and after that time, the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall have no further rights as stockholders of the Corporation and in lieu thereof shall have only the right to receive the redemption price, without interest. 
    
  Series 6 Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to this Section 3 or purchased or otherwise acquired for value by the Corporation shall, after such acquisition, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued by the Corporation at any time as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than as Series 6 Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 4.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . Except as expressly provided in this Section 4 and as required by law, holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights. 
    
  The holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Series 6 Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 5 votes. 
    
  When the holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as a separate series, each Series 6 Preferred Stock will be entitled to 40 votes and may designate up to 40 proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote a whole number of votes, totaling 40 votes per share of Series 6 Preferred Stock. 
    
  When the holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock are entitled to vote together as a class with all other series of Preferred Stock pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 4 hereof, each share of Series 6 Preferred stock will be entitled to one vote. 
    
  (b)   Right to Elect Directors  . If, at the time of any annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders for the election of directors, the Corporation has failed to pay or declare and set aside for payment all scheduled dividends during any six Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) on the Series 6 Preferred Stock, the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation will be increased by two (if not already increased by two due to failure to pay or declare and set aside dividends on any series of Preferred Stock), and the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class with all other series of Preferred Stock then entitled by the terms of such Preferred Stock to vote for additional directors, will be entitled to elect such two additional directors to serve on the Corporation's Board of Directors at each such annual meeting. Each director elected by the holders of shares of the Preferred Stock (a    Preferred Director   ) shall continue to serve as such director until the payment of all dividends on the Preferred Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods, including the Series 6 Preferred Stock. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding Series 6 Preferred Stock entitled to vote, voting separately as a class with all other holders of all other series of Preferred Stock entitled to vote on the matter, at a meeting of the Corporation's stockholders, or of the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock and all other series of Preferred Stock so entitled to vote thereon, called for that purpose. As long as dividends on the Series 6 Preferred Stock shall not have been paid for the preceding quarterly Dividend Period, (i) any vacancy in the office of any Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (ii)) by any instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation, and (ii) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding Series 6 Preferred Stock entitled to vote, voting together as a single class with the holders of all other series of Preferred Stock entitled to vote on the matter, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid by the remaining Preferred Director shall be deemed, for all purposes hereof, to be Preferred Director. Any Preferred Director will be deemed to be an Independent Director for purposes of the actions requiring the approval of a majority of the Independent Directors. 

(c)   Certain Voting Rights  . The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 67% of the outstanding voting power of each series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, including the Series 6 Preferred Stock, will be required (i) to create any class or series of stock which shall, as to dividends or distribution of assets, rank prior to any outstanding series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation other than a series which shall not have any right to object to such creation or (ii) alter or change the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including the terms of the Series 6 Preferred Stock), including by consolidation or merger, so as to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the holders of a series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation;   provided  ,   however  , that if such amendment shall not adversely affect all series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, such amendment need only be approved by at least 67% of the voting power of each series of Preferred Stock adversely affected thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an alteration or change to the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be deemed to affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock,   provided   that: (x) the Series 6 Preferred Stock remain outstanding with the terms thereof unchanged; or (y) the Series 6 Preferred Stock are converted in a merger or consolidation transaction into shares of the surviving or successor corporation or the direct or indirect parent of the surviving or successor corporation having terms identical to the terms of the Series 6 Preferred Stock set forth herein. Additionally, an increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock or the creation or issuance of any other series of Preferred Stock or an increase in the amount of authorized shares of any such series, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Series 6 Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 5.   Independent Directors  . 
    
  (a)   Number; Definition  . As long as any Series 6 Preferred Stock are outstanding, at least two directors on the Board of Directors shall be Independent Directors. As used herein,    Independent Director    means any director of the Corporation who is either (i) not a current officer or employee of the Corporation or (ii) a Preferred Director. 
    
  (b)   Determination by Independent Directors  . In determining whether any proposed action requiring their consent is in the best interests of the Corporation, the Independent Directors shall consider the interests of holders of both the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock, including, without limitation, the holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock. In considering the interests of the holders of the Preferred Stock, including, without limitation, holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock, the Independent Directors shall owe the same duties that the Independent Directors owe with respect to holders of shares of Common Stock. 
    
  Section 6.   No Conversion Rights  . The holders of Series 6 Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such shares into shares of any other class or series of stock or into any other securities of, or any interest in, the Corporation. 
    
  Section 7.   No Sinking Fund  . No sinking fund shall be established for the retirement or redemption of Series 6 Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 8.   Preemptive or Subscription Rights  . No holder of Series 6 Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall, as such holder, have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any additional shares of stock of the Corporation or any other security of the Corporation that it may issue or sell. 
    
  Section 9.   No Other Rights  . The Series 6 Preferred Stock shall not have any designations, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights except as set forth in the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or as otherwise required by law. 
    
  Section 10.   Compliance with Applicable Law  . Declaration by the Board of Directors and payment by the Corporation of dividends to holders of the Series 6 Preferred Stock and repurchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Corporation (or another entity as provided in subsection (a) of Section 3 hereof) of Series 6 Preferred Stock shall be subject in all respects to any and all restrictions and limitations placed on dividends, redemptions or other distributions by the Corporation (or any such other entity) under (i) laws, regulations and regulatory conditions or limitations applicable to or regarding the Corporation (or any such other entity) from time to time and (ii) agreements with federal or state regulatory or banking authorities with respect to the Corporation (or any such other entity) from time to time in effect. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31  st   day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 6  ] 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATION 
  6.25% NONCUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 7 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of preferred stock of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, such series to be designated 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7, to consist of 50,000 shares (the    Series 7 Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  Section 1.   Liquidation Value  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock at the time outstanding will be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders, before any distribution of assets is made to holders of Common Stock or any other class of stock ranking junior to the Series 7 Preferred Stock in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, liquidating distributions in the amount of $1,000 per share, plus any dividends declared thereon and not yet paid prior to the date of liquidation. 
    
  After payment of the full amount of the liquidating distributions to which they are entitled pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock will have no right or claim to any of the remaining assets of the Corporation. In the event that, upon any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the available assets of the Corporation are insufficient to pay the full amount of the liquidating distributions on all outstanding Series 7 Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable on all shares of other classes or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity with the Series 7 Preferred Stock in the distribution of assets upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, then the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock and such other classes or series of capital stock ranking on a parity with the Series 7 Preferred Stock shall share ratably in any such distribution of assets in proportion to the full liquidating distributions to which they otherwise respectively would be entitled. 
    
  For the purposes of this Section 1, the consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into any other entity, or the sale, lease or conveyance of all or substantially all of the property or business of the Corporation, shall not be deemed to constitute the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.   Dividends  . 
    
  (a)   Payment of Dividends  . Holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, if, when and as authorized and declared by the Board of Directors, out of assets of the Corporation legally available therefor, cash dividends at an annual rate of 6.25% of the $1,000 liquidation preference per share (equivalent to $62.50 per share per annum), and no more. Such noncumulative cash dividends shall be payable, if authorized and declared, quarterly on March 30, June 30, September 30 and December 30 of each year, or, if any such day is not a Business Day (as defined herein), on the preceding Business Day (each such date,    Dividend Payment Date   ). Each authorized and declared dividend shall be payable to holders of record of the Series 7 Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock books of the Corporation at the close of business on such record date, not more than 30 calendar days nor less than 10 calendar days preceding the Dividend Payment Date therefor, as may be determined by the Board of Directors (each such date, a    Record Date      provided  ,   however  , that if the date fixed for redemption of any of the Series 7 Preferred Stock occurs after a dividend is authorized and declared but before it is paid, such dividend shall be paid as part of the redemption price to the person to whom the redemption price is paid. Quarterly dividend periods (each, a    Dividend        Period   ) shall commence on and include the first day of each Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on December 30, 2008), and shall end on and include the last day, of the quarterly period in which the corresponding Dividend Payment Date occurs. 
    
  The amount of dividends payable for any Dividend Period which, as to any share of Series 7 Preferred Stock (determined by reference to the issuance date and the redemption or retirement date thereof), is greater or less than a full Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of the number of days elapsed in the period using a 360-day year composed of twelve 30-day months. 
    
  Holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any interest, or any sum of money in lieu of interest, in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Series 7 Preferred Stock authorized and declared by the Board of Directors that may be unpaid. 

(b)   Dividends Noncumulative  . The right of holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock to receive dividends is noncumulative. Accordingly, if the Board of Directors does not authorize or declare a dividend payable in respect of any Dividend Period, holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive a dividend in respect of such Dividend Period and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay a dividend in respect of such Dividend Period, whether or not dividends are authorized and declared payable in respect of any prior or subsequent Dividend Period. 
    
  (c)   Priority as to Dividends; Limitations on Dividends on Junior Equity  . If full dividends on the Series 7 Preferred Stock for a completed Dividend Period shall not have been declared and paid, or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof shall not have been set apart for such payments, no dividends or distributions shall be authorized, declared or paid or set aside for payment (other than as provided in the second paragraph of this Section 2(c)) during the next subsequent Dividend Period with respect to the Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series 7 Preferred Stock as to dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation (together with the Common Stock,    Junior Equity   ) or any stock on parity with the Series 7 Preferred Stock as to dividends or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation (   Parity Stock   ), nor shall any Junior Equity or Parity Stock be redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired for any consideration (or any monies to be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such stock) by the Corporation (except by conversion into or exchange for other Junior Equity), until such time as dividends on all outstanding Series 7 Preferred Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods have been paid in full. 
    
  When dividends are not paid in full (or a sum sufficient for such full payment is not so set apart) for any Dividend Period on the Series 7 Preferred Stock, all dividends declared on the Series 7 Preferred Stock and any other series ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series 7 Preferred Stock shall be distributed   pro rata   so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Series 7 Preferred Stock and each such other series of capital stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that full dividends, for such Dividend Period, per share of Series 7 Preferred Stock (which shall not include any accumulation in respect of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and full dividends, including required or permitted accumulations, if any, on the stock of each other series ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Series 7 Preferred Stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Corporation shall not authorize or issue any class or series of stock with a preference as to payment of distributions or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up that is senior in right to the preferences of the Series 7 Preferred Stock as to payment of distributions or amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up. 
    
  (e) Any reference to  dividends  or  distributions  in this Section 2 shall not be deemed to include any distribution made in connection with any voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 3.   Optional Redemption  . The Series 7 Preferred Stock will not be redeemable prior to March 18, 2010. On or after March 18, 2010, the Series 7 Preferred Stock will be redeemable at the option of the Corporation, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, at a cash redemption price equal to the sum of the liquidation preference thereof plus the amount of the declared and unpaid dividends thereon from the beginning of the Dividend Period in which the redemption occurs to the date of redemption. 
    
  In the event that fewer than all the outstanding shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock are to be redeemed, the number of shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be determined by the Board of Directors, and the shares to be redeemed shall be determined by lot or   pro rata   as may be determined by the Board of Directors or by any other method as may be determined by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion to be equitable, provided that such method satisfies any applicable requirements of any securities exchange (if any) on which the shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock are then listed. 
    
  Unless full dividends on the Series 7 Preferred Stock in respect of the most recently completed Dividend Period have been or contemporaneously are declared and paid or full dividends have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set apart for payment in respect of the most recently completed Dividend Period, no Series 7 Preferred Stock shall be redeemed unless all outstanding shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock are redeemed and the Corporation shall not purchase or otherwise acquire any Series 7 Preferred Stock;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation may purchase or acquire Series 7 Preferred Stock pursuant to a purchase or exchange offer made on the same terms to holders of all outstanding Series 7 Preferred Stock. 
    
  The Corporation will give notice of redemption of the Series 7 Preferred Stock by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of New York, such publication to be made once a week for two successive weeks commencing not less than 30 nor more than 60 days' prior to the redemption date. A failure to give such notice or any defect in the notice or in the Corporation's mailing will not affect the validity of the proceedings for the given redemption of any Series 7 Preferred Stock except as to the holder to whom notice was defective or not given. Each notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the redemption price and (iii) the number of shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock to be redeemed. 

A notice by the Corporation pursuant to this Section 3 shall be sufficiently given if in writing and mailed, first class postage prepaid, to each record holder of Series 7 Preferred Stock at the holder's address as it appears in the records of the Corporation's transfer agent. In any case where notice is given by mail, neither the failure to mail such notice nor any defect in the notice to any particular holder shall affect the sufficiency of such notice, to any other holder. Any notice mailed to a holder in the manner described above shall be deemed given on the date mailed, whether or not the holder actually receives the notice. A notice of redemption shall be given not less than 30 days and not more than 60 days prior to the date of redemption specified in the notice, and shall specify (i) the redemption date, (ii) the number of Series 7 Preferred Stock to be redeemed, (iii) the redemption price and (iv) the manner in which holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock called for redemption may obtain payment of the redemption price in respect of those shares. 
    
  Any shares of Series 7 Preferred Stock that are duly called for redemption pursuant to this Section 3 shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding for any purpose from and after that time that the Corporation shall have irrevocably deposited with the paying agent identified in the notice of redemption funds in an amount equal to the aggregate redemption price. From and after that time, the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock so called for redemption shall have no further rights as stockholders of the Corporation and in lieu thereof shall have only the right to receive the redemption price, without interest. 
    
  Series 7 Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to this Section 3 or purchased or otherwise acquired for value by the Corporation shall, after such acquisition, have the status of authorized and unissued shares of Preferred Stock and may be reissued by the Corporation at any time as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than as Series 7 Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 4.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . Except as expressly provided in this Section 4 and as required by law, holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock shall have no voting rights. 
    
  The holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all maters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Series 7 Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 5 votes. 
    
  When the holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as a separate series, each Series 7 Preferred Stock will be entitled to 40 votes and may designate up to 40 proxies, with each such proxy having the right to vote a whole number of votes, totaling 40 votes per share of Series 7 Preferred Stock. 
    
  When the holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock are entitled to vote together as a class with all other series of Preferred Stock pursuant to subsection (b) of this Section 4 hereof, each share of Series 7 Preferred stock will be entitled to one vote. 
    
  (b)   Right to Elect Directors  . If, at the time of any annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders for the election of directors, the Corporation has failed to pay or declare and set aside for payment all scheduled dividends during any six Dividend Periods (whether or not consecutive) on the Series 7 Preferred Stock, the number of directors then constituting the Board of Directors of the Corporation will be increased by two (if not already increased by two due to failure to pay or declare and set aside dividends on any series of Preferred Stock), and the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock, voting separately as a class with all other series of Preferred Stock then entitled by the terms of such Preferred Stock to vote for additional directors, will be entitled to elect such two additional directors to serve on the Corporation's Board of Directors at each such annual meeting. Each director elected by the holders of shares of the Preferred Stock (a    Preferred Director   ) shall continue to serve as such director until the payment of all dividends on the Preferred Stock for at least four consecutive Dividend Periods, including the Series 7 Preferred Stock. Any Preferred Director may be removed by, and shall not be removed except by, the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding Series 7 Preferred Stock entitled to vote, voting separately as a class with all other holders of all other series of Preferred Stock entitled to vote on the matter, at a meeting of the Corporation's stockholders, or of the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock and all other series of Preferred Stock so entitled to vote thereon, called for that purpose. As long as dividends on the Series 7 Preferred Stock shall not have been paid for the preceding quarterly Dividend Period, (i) any vacancy in the office of any Preferred Director may be filled (except as provided in the following clause (ii)) by any instrument in writing signed by the remaining Preferred Director and filed with the Corporation, and (ii) in the case of the removal of any Preferred Director, the vacancy may be filled by the vote of the holders of the outstanding Series 7 Preferred Stock entitled to vote, voting together as a single class with the holders of all other series of Preferred Stock entitled to vote on the matter, at the same meeting at which such removal shall be voted. Each director appointed as aforesaid by the remaining Preferred Director shall be deemed, for all purposes hereof, to be Preferred Director. Any Preferred Director will be deemed to be an Independent Director for purposes of the actions requiring the approval of a majority of the Independent Directors. 

(c)   Certain Voting Rights  . The affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 67% of the outstanding voting power of each series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, including the Series 7 Preferred Stock, will be required (i) to create any class or series of stock which shall, as to dividends or distribution of assets, rank prior to any outstanding series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation other than a series which shall not have any right to object to such creation or (ii) alter or change the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation (including the terms of the Series 7 Preferred Stock), including by consolidation or merger, so as to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the holders of a series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation;   provided  ,   however  , that if such amendment shall not adversely affect all series of Preferred Stock of the Corporation, such amendment need only be approved by at least 67% of the voting power of each series of Preferred Stock adversely affected thereby. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an alteration or change to the provisions of the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation shall not be deemed to affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock, provided that: (x) the Series 7 Preferred Stock remain outstanding with the terms thereof unchanged; or (y) the Series 7 Preferred Stock are converted in a merger or consolidation transaction into shares of the surviving or successor corporation or the direct or indirect parent of the surviving or successor corporation having terms identical to the terms of the Series 7 Preferred Stock set forth herein. Additionally, an increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock or the creation or issuance of any other series of Preferred Stock or an increase in the amount of authorized shares of any such series, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Series 7 Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect the voting powers, preferences or special rights of the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 5.   Independent Directors  . 
    
  (a)   Number; Definition  . As long as any Series 7 Preferred Stock are outstanding, at least two directors on the Board of Directors shall be Independent Directors. As used herein,    Independent Director    means any director of the Corporation who is either (i) not a current officer or employee of the Corporation or (ii) a Preferred Director. 
    
  (b)   Determination by Independent Directors  . In determining whether any proposed action requiring their consent is in the best interests of the Corporation, the Independent Directors shall consider the interests of holders of both the Common Stock and the Preferred Stock, including, without limitation, the holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock. In considering the interests of the holders of the Preferred Stock, including, without limitation, holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock, the Independent Directors shall owe the same duties that the Independent Directors owe with respect to holders of shares of Common Stock. 
    
  Section 6.   No Conversion Rights  . The holders of Series 7 Preferred Stock shall not have any rights to convert such shares into shares of any other class or series of stock or into any other securities of, or any interest in, the Corporation. 
    
  Section 7.   No Sinking Fund  . No sinking fund shall be established for the retirement or redemption of Series 7 Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 8.   Preemptive or Subscription Rights  . No holder of Series 7 Preferred Stock of the Corporation shall, as such holder, have any preemptive right to purchase or subscribe for any additional shares of stock of the Corporation or any other security of the Corporation that it may issue or sell. 
    
  Section 9.   No Other Rights  . The Series 7 Preferred Stock shall not have any designations, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights except as set forth in the Corporation's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or as otherwise required by law. 
    
  Section 10.   Compliance with Applicable Law  . Declaration by the Board of Directors and payment by the Corporation of dividends to holders of the Series 7 Preferred Stock and repurchase, redemption or other acquisition by the Corporation (or another entity as provided in subsection (a) of Section 3 hereof) of Series 7 Preferred Stock shall be subject in all respects to any and all restrictions and limitations placed on dividends, redemptions or other distributions by the Corporation (or any such other entity) under (i) laws, regulations and regulatory conditions or limitations applicable to or regarding the Corporation (or any such other entity) from time to time and (ii) agreements with federal or state regulatory or banking authorities with respect to the Corporation (or any such other entity) from time to time in effect. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31  st   day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 7  ] 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION  
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  8.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 8  
  (Par Value $0.01 Per Share) 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that the following resolutions were adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) pursuant to the authority of the Board of Directors as conferred by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, at a meeting duly convened and held on December 9, 2008: 
    
  RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of the Corporation's previously authorized preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share (the    Preferred Stock   ), and hereby states the designation and number of shares thereof and establishes the voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, as follows: 
    
  8.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES 8 
    
  (1)   Number of Shares and Designation  . 89,100 shares of the preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation are hereby constituted as a series of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, designated as 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8 (hereinafter called the    Preferred Stock, Series 8   ). 
    
  (2)   Dividends  . (a) The holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be entitled to receive, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof), out of assets of the Corporation legally available under Delaware law for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends at the rate set forth below in this Section (2) applied to the amount of $30,000 per share. Such dividends shall be payable in arrears, as, if and when declared by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) quarterly, on February 28, May 28, August 28 and November 28 of each year (the    Payment Dates   ) commencing on February 28, 2009;   provided   that if any such Payment Date is not a New York Business Day, the Payment Date will be the next succeeding day that is a New York Business Day. Each such dividend shall be payable to the holders of record of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on such record dates, which shall be a date not more than 30 days nor less than 10 days preceding the applicable Payment Dates, as shall be fixed by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof). A    New York Business Day    means any day that is not a Saturday or Sunday and that, in New York City, is not a day on which banking institutions generally are authorized or obligated by law or executive order to be closed. 
    
  (b)(i) Dividend periods (   Dividend Periods   ) shall commence on each Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period which shall be deemed to have commenced on November 28, 2008) and shall end on and exclude the next succeeding Payment Date. The dividend rate on the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8 for each Dividend Period shall be 8.625% per annum, of the $30,000 liquidation preference per share of Preferred Stock, Series 8. 
    
  (ii) The amount of dividends payable for each full Dividend Period (including the initial Dividend Period) for the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be computed by dividing the dividend rate of 8.625% per annum by four and applying the resulting rate to the amount of $30,000 per share. The amount of dividends payable for any period shorter than a full Dividend Period on the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be computed on the basis of 30-day months, a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in any period of less than one month. The amount of dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upwards. 
    
  (c) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 are outstanding, the Corporation may not declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire (except for purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such stock), or make a liquidation payment with respect to the preferred stock of the Corporation of any series and any other stock of the Corporation ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 8 unless for such Dividend Period full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment. When dividends are not paid in full, as aforesaid, upon the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, and any other preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends with the Preferred Stock, Series 8, all dividends declared upon shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, and any other  

preferred stock and other stock of the Corporation ranking on a parity as to dividends (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) shall be declared pro rata so that the amount of dividends declared per share on the Preferred Stock, Series 8, and all such other stock of the Corporation shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued dividends per share on the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 (but without, in the case of any non-cumulative preferred stock, accumulation of unpaid dividends for prior Dividend Periods) and all such other stock bear to each other. 
    
  (d) So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 are outstanding, the Corporation may not, at any time, declare or pay dividends on, make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire, or make a liquidation payment with respect to, any Common Stock or any other stock of the Corporation ranking as to dividends or distribution of assets junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8 unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8 have been declared, paid or set aside for payment for the immediately preceding Dividend Period (except for (x) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of, the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 8 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation, (y) conversions or exchanges for the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 8 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation and (z) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock);   provided  ,   however  , that the foregoing dividend preference shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8 in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid on the Preferred Stock, Series 8 in respect of any prior Dividend Period. If the full dividend on the Preferred Stock, Series 8 is not paid for any Dividend Period, the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8 will have no claim in respect of the unpaid amount so long as no dividend (other than those referred to above) is paid on the Common Stock or other of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior to Preferred Stock, Series 8 as to dividends and distribution of assets upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (e) No dividends may be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8 if at the same time any arrears exists in the payment of dividends on any outstanding class or series of stock of the Corporation ranking, as to the payment of dividends, prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8. 
    
  (f) Holders of shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, property or stock, in excess of full dividends, as herein provided, on the Preferred Stock, Series 8. No interest, or sum of money in lieu of interest, shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on the Preferred Stock, Series 8, which may be in arrears. 
    
  (3)   Liquidation Preference  . (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, before any payment or distribution of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) shall be made to or set apart for the holders of any series or class or classes of stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, upon liquidation, dissolution, or winding up, the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be entitled to receive $30,000 per share plus an amount equal to declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of undeclared dividends. If, upon any liquidation, dissolution, or winding up of the Corporation, the assets of the Corporation, or proceeds thereof, distributable among the holders of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be insufficient to pay in full the preferential amount aforesaid and liquidating payments on any other shares of preferred stock ranking, as to liquidation, dissolution or winding up, on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 8, then such assets, or the proceeds thereof, shall be distributed among the holders of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, and any such other preferred stock ratably in accordance with the respective amounts which would be payable on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, and any such other preferred stock if all amounts payable thereon were paid in full. For the purposes of this Section (3), neither the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation, nor the consolidation, merger or combination of the Corporation into or with one or more corporations or the consolidation, merger or combination of any other corporation or entity into or with the Corporation, shall be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (b) After payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8, as provided in this Section (3), the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8 will not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets of the Corporation. Subject to the rights of the holders of shares of any series or class or classes of stock ranking on a parity with or prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, after payment shall have been made in full to the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8, as provided in this Section (3), but not prior thereto, any other series or class or classes of stock ranking junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall, subject to the respective terms and provisions (if any) applying thereto, be entitled to receive any and all assets remaining to be paid or distributed, and the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall not be entitled to share therein. 

(4)   Redemption  . (a) The Preferred Stock, Series 8, may not be redeemed prior to May 28, 2013. On and after May 28, 2013, the Corporation, at its option, may redeem shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, as a whole at any time or in part from time to time, at a redemption price of $30,000 per share, together in each case with declared and unpaid dividends, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. The Chief Financial Officer or the Treasurer may exercise the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 8 as a whole at any time without further action of the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. The Corporation may only elect to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 8 in part pursuant to a resolution by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof. 
  (b) In the event the Corporation shall redeem shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, notice of such redemption shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days prior to the redemption date, to each holder of record of the shares to be redeemed, at such holder's address as the same appears on the stock register of the Corporation. Each such notice shall state: (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; and (iv) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notice having been mailed as aforesaid, from and after the redemption date (unless default shall be made by the Corporation in providing money for the payment of the redemption price) said shares shall no longer be deemed to be outstanding, and all rights of the holders thereof as stockholders of the Corporation (except the right to receive from the Corporation the redemption price) shall cease. The Corporation's obligation to provide moneys in accordance with the preceding sentence shall be deemed fulfilled if, on or before the redemption date, the Corporation shall deposit with a bank or trust company (which may be an affiliate of the Corporation) having an office in the Borough of Manhattan, City of New York, having a capital and surplus of at least $50,000,000, funds necessary for such redemption, in trust, with irrevocable instructions that such funds be applied to the redemption of the shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, so called for redemption. Any interest accrued on such funds shall be paid to the Corporation from time to time. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of two years from such redemption date shall be released or repaid to the Corporation, after which the holder or holders of such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price. 
  Upon surrender, in accordance with said notice, of the certificates for any such shares so redeemed (properly endorsed or assigned for transfer, if the Board of Directors of the Corporation shall so require and the notice shall so state), such shares shall be redeemed by the Corporation at the applicable redemption price aforesaid. If less than all the outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, are to be redeemed, shares to be redeemed shall be selected by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) from outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, not previously called for redemption by lot or pro rata or by any other method determined by the Board of Directors of the Corporation (or a duly authorized committee thereof) to be equitable. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  The Preferred Stock, Series 8 will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8 will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8. 
    
  (5)   Terms Dependent on Regulatory Changes  . If, (a) the Corporation (by election or otherwise) is subject to any law, rule, regulation or guidance (together,    Regulations   ) relating to its capital adequacy which Regulation (x) provides for a type or level of capital characterized as  Tier 1  in, or pursuant to Regulations of any governmental agency, authority or body having regulatory jurisdiction over the Corporation and implementing, the capital standards published by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, or any other United States national governmental agency, authority or body, or (y) provides for a type or level of capital that in the judgment of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) after consultation with legal counsel of recognized standing is substantially equivalent to such  Tier 1  capital (such capital described in either (x) or (y) is referred to below as    Tier 1 Capital   ), and (b) the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) affirmatively elects to qualify the Preferred Stock, Series 8 for such Tier 1 Capital treatment without any sublimit or other quantitative restrictions on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 8 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) under such Regulations, then, upon such affirmative election, the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 shall automatically be amended to reflect the following modifications (without any action or consent by the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 or any other vote of stockholders of the Corporation): 
  (i) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision (as defined below), the Corporation's right to redeem the Preferred Stock, Series 8 on and after May 28, 2013 pursuant to Section (5) hereof shall be restricted (such restrictions including but not limited to any requirement that the Corporation receive prior approval for such redemption from any applicable governmental agency, authority or body or that such redemption be prohibited); 

(ii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, the Corporation's right to make distributions with respect to, or redeem, purchase or acquire or make payments on, securities junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8 (upon a non-payment of dividends on the Preferred Stock, Series 8) shall become subject to additional restrictions (other than those set forth in Section (2)(d) hereof) pursuant to the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 8; and 
    
  (iii) If and to the extent such modification is a Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision, any other new provisions or terms shall be added to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, or existing terms shall be modified;   provided  ,   however  , that no such provision or term shall be added, and no such modification shall be made pursuant to the terms of this Section (5)(iii), if it would alter or change the rights, powers or preferences of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 so as to affect the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 adversely. 
    
  As used above, the term  Required Unrestricted Tier 1 Provision  means a term which is, in the written opinion of legal counsel of recognized standing and delivered to the Corporation, required for the Preferred Stock, Series 8 to be treated as Tier 1 Capital of the Corporation without any sublimit or other quantitative restriction on the inclusion of such Preferred Stock, Series 8 in Tier 1 Capital (other than any limitation requiring that common equity or a specified form of common equity constitute the dominant form of Tier 1 Capital) pursuant to the applicable Regulations. The Corporation shall provide notice to holders of any Preferred Stock, Series 8 of any such changes in the terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 8 made pursuant to the terms of this Section (5) on or about the date of effectiveness of any such modification and shall maintain a copy of such notice on file at the principal offices of the Corporation. A copy of the relevant Regulations shall also be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation and, upon request, will be made available to such holders. 
    
  For the avoidance of doubt,  amend ,  modify ,  change  and words of similar effect used in this Section (5) mean that the Preferred Stock, Series 8 shall have such additional or different rights, powers and preferences, and such qualifications, limitations and restrictions as may be established by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee thereof) pursuant to this Section (5), subject to the limitations set forth herein. 
    
  (6)   Voting Rights  . The Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall have no voting rights, except as hereinafter set forth or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  The holders of the Preferred Stock shall be entitled to vote on all matters submitted to a vote of the holders of Common Stock of the Corporation, voting together with the holders of Common Stock as one class. Each share of Preferred Stock shall be entitled to 150 votes. 
    
  Whenever dividends payable on the Preferred Stock, Series 8, have not been declared or paid for such number of Dividend Periods, whether or not consecutive, which in the aggregate is equivalent to six Dividend Periods (a    Nonpayment   ), the holders of outstanding shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall have the exclusive right, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 8, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable (to the extent such other series of preferred stock are entitled to vote pursuant to the terms thereof), to vote for the election of two additional directors to the Board of Directors of the Corporation at the next annual meeting of stockholders and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders on the terms set forth below. At elections for such directors, or on any other matters requiring their consent and approval, each holder of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be entitled to three votes for each share of Preferred Stock, Series 8 held (the holders of shares of any other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity being entitled to such number of votes, if any, for each share of stock held as may be granted to them). Upon the vesting of such right of such holders, the maximum authorized number of members of the Board of Directors shall automatically be increased by two and the two vacancies so created shall be filled by vote of the holders of such outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8 (either alone or together with the holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity) as hereinafter set forth. The right of such holders of such shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, voting as a class with holders of shares of all other series of preferred stock ranking on such a parity, to elect members of the Board of Directors of the Corporation as aforesaid shall continue until all dividends on such shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall have been paid in full for at least four Dividend Periods following the Nonpayment. Upon payment in full of such dividends, such voting rights shall terminate except as expressly provided by law, subject to re-vesting in the event of each and every subsequent Nonpayment in the payment of dividends as aforesaid. 
    
  Upon termination of the right of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, to vote for directors as provided in the previous paragraph, the term of office of all directors then in office elected by such holders will terminate immediately. If the office of any director elected by such holders voting as a class becomes vacant by reason of death, resignation, retirement, disqualification, removal from office or otherwise, the remaining director elected by such holders voting as a class may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. Whenever the term of office of the directors elected by such holders voting as a class shall end and the special voting rights shall have expired, the  

number of directors shall be such number as may be provided for in the By-laws irrespective of any increase made pursuant to the provisions hereof. 
    
  So long as any shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, remain outstanding, the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least two-thirds of the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, outstanding at the time (voting as a class with all other series of preferred stock ranking on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 8, either as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable), given in person or by proxy, either in writing or at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary to permit, effect or validate any one or more of the following: 
    
  (i) the authorization, creation or issuance, or any increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any class or series of stock ranking prior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, with respect to payment of dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up; or 
    
  (ii) the amendment, alteration or repeal, whether by merger, consolidation or otherwise, of any of the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, or of the resolutions set forth in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 8, which would adversely affect any right, preference, privilege or voting power of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, or of the holders thereof;   provided  ,   however  , that (a) any increase in the amount of issued Preferred Stock, Series 8 or authorized preferred stock or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of other series of preferred stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends were cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up and (b) a conversion of the Offered Preferred Stock in a merger or consolidation transaction into shares of the surviving or successor corporation or the direct or indirect parent of the surviving or successor corporation having terms substantially identical to the terms of the Offered Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect such rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers. 
    
  Without the consent of the holders of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, so long as such action does not adversely affect the interests of holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8, the Corporation may amend, alter, supplement or repeal any terms of the Preferred Stock, Series 8: 
    
  (i) to cure any ambiguity, or to cure, correct or supplement any provision contained in a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 8 that may be defective or inconsistent; or 
    
  (ii) to make any provision with respect to matters or questions arising with respect to the Preferred Stock, Series 8 that is not inconsistent with the provisions of a Certificate of Designations for such Preferred Stock, Series 8. 
    
  The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8 (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents, and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors of the Corporation, or a duly authorized committee thereof, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Preferred Stock, Series 8 are listed at the time. 
    
  The foregoing voting provisions shall not apply if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to which such vote would otherwise be required shall be effected, all outstanding shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall have been redeemed or sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust to effect such a redemption which is scheduled to be consummated within three months after the time that such rights would otherwise be exercisable. 
    
  (7)   Record Holders  . The Corporation and the transfer agent for the Preferred Stock, Series 8, may deem and treat the record holder of any share of such Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  (8)   Ranking  . Any class or classes of stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to rank: 
    
  (i) on a parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 8, as to dividends or as to distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, whether or not the dividend rates, dividend payment dates, or redemption or liquidation prices per share thereof be different from those of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, if the holders of such class of stock and the Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be entitled to the receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, as the case may be, in proportion to their respective dividend rates (whether cumulative or non-cumulative) or liquidation prices, without preference or priority one over the other; and 

(ii) junior to the Preferred Stock, Series 8, as to dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, if such stock shall be Common Stock or if the holders of Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall be entitled to receipt of dividends or of amounts distributable upon dissolution, liquidation or winding up, as the case may be, in preference or priority to the holders of shares of such stock. 
    
  (iii) The Shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated  Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2,   6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5,   6.70% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6,   6.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7,   Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B,   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E,   6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D   Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F,   Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G,   8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H,   6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J,   7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K,   Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M,  and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on parity with the Preferred Stock, Series 8, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, shall be deemed to rank on a parity with the shares of the Preferred Stock, Series 8, as to dividends and distribution of assets upon the liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (9)   Exclusion of Other Rights  . Unless otherwise required by law, shares of Preferred Stock, Series 8, shall not have any rights, including preemptive rights, or preferences other than those specifically set forth herein or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  (10)   Notices  . All notices or communications unless otherwise specified in the By-laws of the Corporation or the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, shall be sufficiently given if in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or the date such notice is mailed.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned, being duly authorized thereto, does hereby affirm, under penalties of perjury, that this certificate is the act and deed of the Corporation and that the facts herein stated are true, and accordingly has hereunto set her hand this 31st day of December, 2008. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

[  Signature Page to Certificate of Designations, Series 8  ] 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
    
  OF 
    
  FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Q  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 141 and 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify: 
    
  At meetings duly convened and held by the board of directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) on July 23, 2008 and October 15, 2008, the Board of Directors duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's Preferred Stock, and (b) appointing a Special Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board of Directors to act on behalf of the Board of Directors in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate, the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of such series of Preferred Stock. 
    
  Thereafter, on January 7, 2009, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution creating a series of 400,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as    Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q    by written consent 
    
  RESOLVED  , that pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Part 1.   Designation and Number of Shares  . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the  Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q  (the    Designated Preferred Stock   ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 400,000. 
    
  Part 2.   Standard Provisions  . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. 
    
  Part. 3.   Definitions  . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below: 
    
  (a)    Common Stock    means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation. 
    
  (b)    Dividend Payment Date    means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year. 
    
  (c)    Junior Stock    means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (d)    Liquidation Amount    means $25,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock. (e)    Minimum Amount    means $2,500,000,000. 
    
  (e)  Minimum Amount  means $2,500,000,000. 

(f)    Parity Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B; (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D; (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E; (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding); (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding); (vi) 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H; (vii) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I; (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J; (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K; (x) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L; (xi) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M; (xii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N; (xiii) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1; (xiv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2; (xv) 6.375% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3; (xvi) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4; (xvii) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5; (xviii) 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6; (xix) 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7; and (xx) 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8. 
    
  (g)    Signing Date    means October 26, 2008. 
    
  (h)    UST Preferred Stock    means the Corporation's Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N. 
    
  Part. 4.   Certain Voting Matters  . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent. 
    
  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank] 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Teresa M. Brenner, its Associate General Counsel, this 7  th   day of January, 2009. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

ANNEX A 
    
  STANDARD PROVISIONS 
    
  Section 1.   General Matters  . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.   Standard Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock: 
    
  (a)    Applicable Dividend Rate    means (i) during the period from the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 5% per annum and (ii) from and after the first day of the first Dividend Period commencing on or after the fifth anniversary of the Original Issue Date, 9% per annum. 
    
  (b)    Appropriate Federal Banking Agency    means the  appropriate Federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision. 
    
  (c)    Business Combination    means a merger, consolidation, statutory share exchange or similar transaction that requires the approval of the Corporation's stockholders. 
    
   (d)    Business Day    means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close. 
    
  (e)    Bylaws    means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time. 
    
   (f)    Certificate of Designations    means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (g)    Charter    means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document. 
    
  (h)    Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a). 
    
   (i)    Dividend Record Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a).  
    
   (j)    Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
  (k)    Original Issue Date    means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued.  
    
   (l)    Preferred Director    has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
  (m)    Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (n)    Qualified Equity Offering    means the sale and issuance for cash by the Corporation to persons other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries after the Original Issue Date of shares of perpetual Preferred Stock, Common Stock or any combination of such stock, that, in each case, qualify as and may be included in Tier 1 capital of the Corporation at the time of issuance under the applicable risk-based capital guidelines of the Corporation's Appropriate Federal Banking Agency (other than any such sales and issuances (i) made by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program, (ii) to the extent such sales or issuances provided the basis for the redemption of other preferred stock of the Corporation that was originally issued by the Corporation (or any such successor) under the Troubled Asset Relief Program or (iii) made pursuant to agreements or arrangements entered into, or pursuant to financing plans which were publicly announced, on or prior to October 13, 2008). 
    
  (o)    Share Dilution Amount    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). 

(p)    Standard Provisions    mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (q)    Successor Preferred Stock    has the meaning set forth in Section 5(a). 
    
  (r)    Voting Parity Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
    
  Section 3.   Dividends  . 
    
  (a)   Rate  . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a rate per annum equal to the Applicable Dividend Rate on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (  i.e.  , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period   , provided that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360- day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a    Dividend Record Date   ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day. 
    
  Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations). 
    
  (b)   Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,   provided   that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan;  

(v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.    Share Dilution Amount    means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity- based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction. 
    
  When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared   pro rata   so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 4.   Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a)   Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation  . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the    Liquidation Preference   ). 
    
  (b)   Partial Payment  . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled. 
    
  (c)   Residual Distributions  . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)   Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash,  

securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 5.   Redemption  . 
    
  (a)   Optional Redemption  . Except as provided below, the Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the later of (i) the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date and (ii) the date on which all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation. On or after the later of (i) the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date and (ii) the date on which all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, out of funds legally available therefor, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, prior to the first Dividend Payment Date falling on or after the third anniversary of the Original Issue Date, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency and subject to the requirement that all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock shall previously have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;   provided   that (x) the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) has received aggregate gross proceeds of not less than the Minimum Amount (plus the  Minimum Amount  as defined in the relevant certificate of designations for each other outstanding series of preferred stock of such successor (the    Successor Preferred Stock   ) that was originally issued under the Troubled Asset Relief Program) from one or more Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor), and (y) the aggregate redemption price of the Designated Preferred Stock (and any Successor Preferred Stock) redeemed pursuant to this paragraph may not exceed the aggregate net cash proceeds received by the Corporation (or any successor by Business Combination) from such Qualified Equity Offerings (including Qualified Equity Offerings of such successor). 
    
  The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above. 
    
  (b)   No Sinking Fund  . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (c)   Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. 
    
  (d)   Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of  

Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  (e)   Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  (f)   Status of Redeemed Shares  . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (  provided   that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock). 
    
  Section 6.   Conversion  . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities. 
    
  Section 7.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  (b)   Preferred Stock Directors  . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the      Preferred Directors    and each a    Preferred Director   ) to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;   provided   that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. 
    
  (c)   Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66   2  /  3  % of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 

(i)   Authorization of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)   Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or 
    
  (iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)   Changes after Provision for Redemption  . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above. 
    
  (e)   Procedures for Voting and Consents  . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.   Record Holders  . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  Section 9.   Notices  . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility. 
    
  Section 10.   No Preemptive Rights  . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted. 
    
  Section 11.   Replacement Certificates  . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost  

at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation. 
    
  Section 12.   Other Rights  . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
    
  OF 
    
  FIXED RATE CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES R  
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), in accordance with the provisions of Section 151 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware thereof, does hereby certify: 
    
  The board of directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) or an applicable committee of the Board of Directors, in accordance with the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, adopted the following resolution on January 16, 2009 creating a series of 800,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as    Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series R   . 
    
  RESOLVED  , that pursuant to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation and the bylaws of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Part 1.   Designation and Number of Shares  . There is hereby created out of the authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation a series of preferred stock designated as the  Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series R  (the    Designated Preferred Stock   ). The authorized number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be 800,000. 
    
  Part 2.   Standard Provisions  . The Standard Provisions contained in Annex A attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety and shall be deemed to be a part of this Certificate of Designations to the same extent as if such provisions had been set forth in full herein. 
    
  Part 3.   Definitions  . The following terms are used in this Certificate of Designations (including the Standard Provisions in Annex A hereto) as defined below: 
    
  (a)    Common Stock    means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation. 
    
  (b)    Dividend Payment Date    means February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 of each year. 
    
  (c)    Junior Stock    means the Common Stock, and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation the terms of which expressly provide that it ranks junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (d)    Liquidation Amount    means $25,000 per share of Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (e)    Parity Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Designated Preferred Stock) the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior or junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to dividend rights and/or as to rights on liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B; (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D; (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E; (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F (if and when issued and outstanding); (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G (if and when issued and outstanding); (vi) 8.20% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H; (vii) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I; (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J; (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K; (x) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L; (xi) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (xii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N, (xiii) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (xiv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (xv) 6.375% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (xvi) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (xvii) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, (xviii) 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6, (xix) 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7, (xx) 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8, and (xxi) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q. 

(f)    Signing Date    means the Original Issue Date. 
    
  (g)    UST Preferred Stock    means the Corporation's Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series N, and Fixed Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Q. 
    
  Part. 4.   Certain Voting Matters  . Holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock will be entitled to one vote for each such share on any matter on which holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote, including any action by written consent. 
    
  [Remainder of Page Intentionally Left Blank] 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be signed by Teresa M. Brenner, its Associate General Counsel, this 16  th   day of January, 2009. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

ANNEX A 
    
  STANDARD PROVISIONS 
    
  Section 1.   General Matters  . Each share of Designated Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Designated Preferred Stock. The Designated Preferred Stock shall be perpetual, subject to the provisions of Section 5 of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations. The Designated Preferred Stock shall rank equally with Parity Stock and shall rank senior to Junior Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.   Standard Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Designated Preferred Stock: 
    
  (a)    Appropriate Federal Banking Agency    means the  appropriate Federal banking agency  with respect to the Corporation as defined in Section 3(q) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (12 U.S.C. Section 1813(q)), or any successor provision. 
    
  (b)    Business Day    means any day except Saturday, Sunday and any day on which banking institutions in the State of New York generally are authorized or required by law or other governmental actions to close. 
    
  (c)    Bylaws    means the bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (d)    Certificate of Designations    means the Certificate of Designations or comparable instrument relating to the Designated Preferred Stock, of which these Standard Provisions form a part, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (e)    Charter    means the Corporation's certificate or articles of incorporation, articles of association, or similar organizational document. 
    
  (f)    Dividend Period    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a). 
    
  (g)    Dividend Record Date    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(a). (h)    Liquidation Preference    has the meaning set forth in Section 4(a). 
    
  (i)    Original Issue Date    means the date on which shares of Designated Preferred Stock are first issued. (j)    Preferred Director    has the meaning set forth in Section 7(b). 
    
  (k)    Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (l)    Share Dilution Amount    has the meaning set forth in Section 3(b). 
    
  (m)    Standard Provisions    mean these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations relating to the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (n)    Voting Parity Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock are entitled to vote as specified in Sections 7(a) and 7(b) of these Standard Provisions that form a part of the Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
    
  Section 3.   Dividends  . 
    
  (a)   Rate  . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Designated Preferred Stock if, as and when declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of assets legally available therefor, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a per annum rate of 8.0% on (i) the Liquidation Amount per share of Designated Preferred Stock and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends for any prior Dividend Period on such share of Designated Preferred Stock, if any. Such dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each subsequent Dividend Payment Date (  i.e.  , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on each Dividend Payment Date, commencing with the first such Dividend Payment Date to occur at least 20 calendar days after the Original Issue Date. In the event that any Dividend Payment Date would otherwise fall on a day that is not a Business Day, the dividend payment due on that date will be postponed to the next day that is a Business Day and no additional dividends will accrue as a result of that postponement. The period from and including any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend  

Payment Date is a    Dividend Period   ,   provided   that the initial Dividend Period shall be the period from and including the Original Issue Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360- day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Designated Preferred Stock on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Designated Preferred Stock as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day immediately preceding such Dividend Payment Date or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a    Dividend Record Date   ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Designated Preferred Stock as specified in this Section 3 (subject to the other provisions of the Certificate of Designations). 
    
  (b)   Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Designated Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than dividends payable solely in shares of Common Stock) or Parity Stock, subject to the immediately following paragraph in the case of Parity Stock, and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be, directly or indirectly, purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or have been declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock on the applicable record date). The foregoing limitation shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the administration of any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business (including purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount (as defined below) pursuant to a publicly announced repurchase plan) and consistent with past practice,   provided   that any purchases to offset the Share Dilution Amount shall in no event exceed the Share Dilution Amount; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) purchases by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation of capital stock of the Corporation for resale pursuant to an offering by the Corporation of such capital stock underwritten by such broker-dealer subsidiary; (iv) any dividends or distributions of rights or Junior Stock in connection with a stockholders' rights plan or any redemption or repurchase of rights pursuant to any stockholders' rights plan; (v) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians; and (vi) the exchange or conversion of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, in each case, solely to the extent required pursuant to binding contractual agreements entered into prior to the Signing Date or any subsequent agreement for the accelerated exercise, settlement or exchange thereof for Common Stock.    Share Dilution Amount    means the increase in the number of diluted shares outstanding (determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, and as measured from the date of the Corporation's consolidated financial statements most recently filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the Original Issue Date) resulting from the grant, vesting or exercise of equity- based compensation to employees and equitably adjusted for any stock split, stock dividend, reverse stock split, reclassification or similar transaction. 
    
  When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon Designated Preferred Stock and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on Designated Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared   pro rata   so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) (subject to their having been declared by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of  

Directors out of legally available funds and including, in the case of Parity Stock that bears cumulative dividends, all accrued but unpaid dividends) bear to each other. If the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors determines not to pay any dividend or a full dividend on a Dividend Payment Date, the Corporation will provide written notice to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock prior to such Dividend Payment Date. 
    
  Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 4.   Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a)   Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation  . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Designated Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment (such amounts collectively, the    Liquidation Preference   ). 
    
  (b)   Partial Payment  . If in any distribution described in Section 4(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution, holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled. 
    
  (c)   Residual Distributions  . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Designated Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect of any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Designated Preferred Stock as to such distribution has been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)   Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 4, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Designated Preferred Stock receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 5.   Redemption  . 
    
  (a)   Optional Redemption  . The Designated Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to the date on which all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation. On or after the date on which all outstanding shares of UST Preferred Stock have been redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation, the Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Appropriate Federal Banking Agency, may redeem, in whole or in part, at any time and from time to time, the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 5(c) below, out of funds legally available therefor at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) the Liquidation Amount per share and (ii) except as otherwise provided below, any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount) (regardless of whether any dividends are actually declared) to, but excluding, the date fixed for redemption;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation, the holders of a majority of the aggregate Liquidation Amount and the United States Department of the Treasury (if at the time it holds any shares of the Designated Preferred Stock) may in the future discuss alternative consideration for effecting a redemption, including use of Common Stock. 
    
  The redemption price for any shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 3 above. 

(b)   No Sinking Fund  . The Designated Preferred Stock will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Designated Preferred Stock will have no right to require redemption or repurchase of any shares of Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (c)   Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Designated Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Designated Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Designated Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. 
    
  (d)   Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee thereof shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  (e)   Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $500 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  (f)   Status of Redeemed Shares  . Shares of Designated Preferred Stock that are redeemed, repurchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (  provided   that any such cancelled shares of Designated Preferred Stock may be reissued only as shares of any series of Preferred Stock other than Designated Preferred Stock). 
    
  Section 6.   Conversion  . Holders of Designated Preferred Stock shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities. 
    
  Section 7.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . The holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  (b)   Preferred Stock Directors  . Whenever, at any time or times, dividends payable on the shares of Designated Preferred Stock have not been paid for an aggregate of six quarterly Dividend Periods or more, whether or not consecutive, the authorized number of directors of the Corporation shall automatically be increased by two and the holders of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have the right, with holders of shares of any one or more other classes or series of Voting Parity Stock outstanding at the time, voting together as a class, to elect two directors (hereinafter the    Preferred Directors    and each a    Preferred Director   ) to fill such newly created directorships at the Corporation's next annual meeting of stockholders (or at a special meeting called for that purpose prior to such next annual meeting) and at each subsequent annual meeting of stockholders until all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 3(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of  

Designated Preferred Stock have been declared and paid in full at which time such right shall terminate with respect to the Designated Preferred Stock, except as herein or by law expressly provided, subject to revesting in the event of each and every subsequent default of the character above mentioned;   provided   that it shall be a qualification for election for any Preferred Director that the election of such Preferred Director shall not cause the Corporation to violate any corporate governance requirements of any securities exchange or other trading facility on which securities of the Corporation may then be listed or traded that listed or traded companies must have a majority of independent directors. Upon any termination of the right of the holders of shares of Designated Preferred Stock and Voting Parity Stock as a class to vote for directors as provided above, the Preferred Directors shall cease to be qualified as directors, the term of office of all Preferred Directors then in office shall terminate immediately and the authorized number of directors shall be reduced by the number of Preferred Directors elected pursuant hereto. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time, with or without cause, and any vacancy created thereby may be filled, only by the affirmative vote of the holders a majority of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding voting separately as a class together with the holders of shares of Voting Parity Stock, to the extent the voting rights of such holders described above are then exercisable. If the office of any Preferred Director becomes vacant for any reason other than removal from office as aforesaid, the remaining Preferred Director may choose a successor who shall hold office for the unexpired term in respect of which such vacancy occurred. 
    
  (c)   Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . So long as any shares of Designated Preferred Stock are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Charter, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Designated Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, voting as a separate class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 
    
  (i)   Authorization of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter to authorize or create or increase the authorized amount of, or any issuance of, any shares of, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for shares of, any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)   Amendment of Designated Preferred Stock  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Designations for the Designated Preferred Stock or the Charter (including, unless no vote on such merger or consolidation is required by Section 7(c)(iii) below, any amendment, alteration or repeal by means of a merger, consolidation or otherwise) so as to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Designated Preferred Stock; or 
    
  (iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Designated Preferred Stock, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Designated Preferred Stock remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of Designated Preferred Stock immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 7(c), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, including any increase in the authorized amount of Designated Preferred Stock necessary to satisfy preemptive or similar rights granted by the Corporation to other persons prior to the Signing Date, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, whether pursuant to preemptive or similar rights or otherwise, of any other series of Preferred Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for any other series of Preferred Stock, ranking equally with and/or junior to Designated Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers, and shall not require the affirmative vote or consent of, the holders of outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)   Changes after Provision for Redemption  . No vote or consent of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of the Designated Preferred Stock shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 5 above. 
    
  (e)   Procedures for Voting and Consents  . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Designated Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the  

solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Charter, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which Designated Preferred Stock is listed or traded at the time. 
    
  Section 8.   Record Holders  . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for Designated Preferred Stock may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Designated Preferred Stock as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  Section 9.   Notices  . All notices or communications in respect of Designated Preferred Stock shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Charter or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if shares of Designated Preferred Stock are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Designated Preferred Stock in any manner permitted by such facility. 
    
  Section 10.   No Preemptive Rights  . No share of Designated Preferred Stock shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted. 
    
  Section 11.   Replacement Certificates  . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation. 
    
  Section 12.   Other Rights  . The shares of Designated Preferred Stock shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Charter or as provided by applicable law. 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  COMMON EQUIVALENT JUNIOR PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES S  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 151 of the 
  General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of 
  Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1. At meetings duly convened and held on November 16, 2009, November 17, 2009, December 1, 2009 and December 3, 2009, the Board of the Corporation (the    Board   ) duly adopted resolutions (a) authorizing the issuance and sale by the Corporation of one or more series of the Corporation's preferred stock, and (b) appointing a Special Securities Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board to act on behalf of the Board in establishing the number of authorized shares, the dividend rate and other powers, designations, preferences and rights of the preferred stock. 
    
  2. Thereafter, on December 3, 2009, the Committee duly adopted the following resolution by written consent:  
     RESOLVED  , that the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights, and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, of the Corporation's Common Equivalent Junior Preferred Stock, Series S, including those established by the Board and the number of authorized shares and dividend rate established hereby, are authorized and approved as set forth in the Certificate of Designations attached hereto as   Exhibit A  , which is incorporated herein and made a part of these resolutions by reference.  
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Certificate of Designations is executed on behalf of the Corporation by its duly authorized officer this 3rd day of December, 2009. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

Exhibit A 
    
  CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
    
  COMMON EQUIVALENT JUNIOR  
  PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES S 
    
  OF 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors (the  Board ) by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation the (   Certificate of Incorporation   ), the Board does hereby designate, create, authorize and provide for the issue of a series of preferred stock, $0.01 par value per share, which shall be designated as Common Equivalent Junior Preferred Stock, Series S (the    Series S Junior Preferred Stock   ) consisting of 1,286,000 shares having the following voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights, and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof as follows: 
    
  COMMON EQUIVALENT JUNIOR  
  PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES S 
    
  Section I. Definitions 
    
     Adjusted Conversion Rate    means, for each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, that number of shares of Common Stock determined by reference to the Initial Conversion Rate (as adjusted pursuant to Section II(d), as applicable) multiplied by an amount equal to one less a fraction, the numerator of which is 200,000,000 and the denominator of which is the Initial Conversion Rate in effect on the Closing Date (without adjustment pursuant to Section II(d)) multiplied by the number of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock then outstanding, the amount resulting from such calculation being rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one ten-thousandth, with five one-hundred thousandths rounded upwards. 
    
     Adjusted Liquidation Preference    means, for each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, $12,667.19. 
    
     Amendment    means an Amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation increasing the number of shares of Common Stock the Corporation is authorized to issue from 10 billion to such amount as is authorized by the Board, which amount shall be not less than an amount sufficient to effect conversion of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock in full. 
    
     Applicable Conversion Rate    means the Initial Conversion Rate, unless the Triggering Date has occurred, in which case it shall be the Adjusted Conversion Rate, in each case subject to adjustment pursuant to Section II(d), as applicable, for any such event occurring subsequent to the initial determination of such rate. 
    
     Applicable Liquidation Preference    means the Initial Liquidation Preference unless the Triggering Date has occurred, in which case it shall be the Adjusted Liquidation Preference. 
     As Converted Liquidation Amount    has the meaning specified in Section V(c).  
     Board    means the Board of Directors of Bank of America Corporation.  
     Certificate of Incorporation    has the meaning specified in the preamble. 
     Closing Date    means the date that the Series S Junior Preferred Stock is first issued.  
     Common Dividend Equivalent Amount    has the meaning specified in Section III(a).  
     Common Stock    means the Common Stock, $.01 par value per share, of the Corporation. 
     Conversion Date    means the first business day following the receipt of Stockholder Approval and the filing and acceptance of the Amendment with the Office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. 
     Corporation    means Bank of America Corporation. 

Exchange Property    has the meaning specified in Section VI(a). 
    
     Holder    means the Person in whose name the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock are registered, which may be treated by the Corporation as the absolute owner of the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock for the purpose of making payment and settling conversion and for all other purposes. 
     Initial Conversion Rate    means, for each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, 1,000 shares of Common Stock.  
     Initial Liquidation Preference    means, for each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, $15,000. 
     Junior Preferred Director    has the meaning specified in Section IV(b).  
     Liquidation Participation Amount    has the meaning specified in Section V(c).  
     Nonpayment    has the meaning specified in Section IV(b). 
    
     Parity Stock    has the meaning specified in Section III(d). 
    
     Person    means a legal person, including any individual, corporation, estate, partnership, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, limited liability company or trust. 
    
     Record Date    means, with respect to any dividend, distribution or other transaction or event in which the holders of the Common Stock (or other applicable security) have the right to receive any cash, securities or other property or in which the Common Stock (or other applicable security) is exchanged for or converted into any combination of cash, securities or other property, the date fixed for determination of holders of the Common Stock (or other applicable security) entitled to receive such cash, securities or other property (whether such date is fixed by the Board or a duly authorized committee of the Board or by statute, contract or otherwise). 
    
     Reorganization Event    has the meaning specified in Section VI(a). 
     Series S Junior Preferred Stock    has the meaning specified in the preamble. 
     Special Dividend Payment Date    has the meaning specified in Section III(b).  
     Special Dividend Rate    has the meaning specified in Section III(b). 
    
     Special Dividend    has the meaning specified in Section III(b). 
    
     Stockholder Approval    means the requisite approval by the stockholders of the Corporation of the Amendment. 
    
     Triggering Date    means the earlier of (i) the date on which any meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation called for the purpose of obtaining Stockholder Approval is finally adjourned and at which the Amendment is rejected by the Corporation's stockholders and (ii) the date that is 105 days from the Closing Date. 
    
     Voting Parity Securities    has the meaning specified in Section IV(b). 
    
  Section II. Automatic Conversion 
    
  (a) Upon the terms and in the manner set forth in this Section II and subject to the provisions for adjustment in Section II (b) below, at 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the Conversion Date, each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock will automatically convert into an amount of fully-paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock, without any action on the part of Holders or the Corporation, based on the Applicable Conversion Rate. The shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock so converted will be cancelled as described in paragraph (c) below. 
    
  (b) If the Corporation fails to obtain Stockholder Approval on or before the Triggering Date, then at 9:30 a.m., New York City time, on the first business day after the Triggering Date, the Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall automatically partially convert into Common Stock, to be effected by the Corporation's issuance of 200,000,000 shares of Common Stock (as adjusted pursuant to Section II(d)) to the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock, pro rata based on the number of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock held of record by each such Holder on such date, without any action on the part of Holders, and the Applicable Conversion Rate shall thereafter be the Adjusted Conversion Rate. Following the issuance of such Common Stock, all shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock will remain outstanding. 

(c) As promptly as practicable after the Conversion Date, the Corporation shall (i) provide notice of the conversion to each Holder stating the Conversion Date, the number of shares of Common Stock issued upon conversion of each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock held of record by such Holder and subject to conversion and the place or places where certificates representing shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock are to be surrendered for issuance of certificates representing shares of Common Stock and (ii) upon proper surrender (including but not limited to furnishing appropriate endorsements and transfer documents) of such certificates by such Holder, issue and deliver, in exchange for the certificates representing the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock held by such Holder, to each Holder a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock to which such Holder is entitled. Immediately upon conversion, the rights of the Holders as such with respect to the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock so converted shall cease and the persons entitled to receive the shares of Common Stock upon the conversion of such shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall be treated for all purposes as having become the record and beneficial owners of such shares of Common Stock. In the event that a Holder shall not by written notice designate the name in which shares of Common Stock and/or cash, securities or other property (including payments of cash in lieu of fractional shares) to be issued or paid upon conversion of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock should be registered or paid or the manner in which such shares should be delivered, the Corporation shall be entitled to register and deliver such shares, and make such payment, in the name of the Holder and in the manner shown on the records of the Corporation. 
    
  (d) If at any time prior to the Conversion Date, the Corporation issues to all holders of the Common Stock shares of Common Stock or other securities or assets of the Corporation (other than cash) as a dividend or distribution on the Common Stock, or the Corporation effects a share split or share combination of the Corporation's Common Stock, or the Corporation issues to all holders of the Common Stock certain rights or warrants entitling them for a period of 60 days or less to purchase shares of Common Stock at less than the current market value of the Common Stock at that time, or the Corporation purchases shares of Common Stock pursuant to a tender offer or exchange offer at above the current market value at that time, and in each such case the Record Date with respect to such event (or the date such event is effective, as the case may be) occurs on or after the Closing Date and prior to the Conversion Date (each, an  Adjustment Event ), then the Corporation will make such provision as is necessary so that the Holder receives the same dividend, distribution or other asset or property, if any, as it would have received in connection with such Adjustment Event if it had been the holder on the Record Date (or the date such event is effective, as the case may be) of the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock held by such Holder are then convertible, or, to the extent that it is not reasonably practicable for the Corporation to make such provision, the Corporation shall make such adjustment to the Applicable Conversion Rate or other terms of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock to provide the Holder with an economic benefit comparable to that which it would have received had such provision been made; it being understood that this paragraph (d) shall not apply to the extent that any Holder participates on a pro rata basis with the holders of Common Stock. 
    
  (e) No fractional shares of Common Stock or scrip shall be issued upon conversion of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock. If more than one share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall be surrendered for conversion at any one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate number of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock so surrendered. Instead of any fractional shares of Common Stock which would otherwise be issuable upon conversion of any shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fractional interest equal to the value of such fractional interest as based on the closing sales price of the Common Stock on the business day immediately preceding the Conversion Date. 
    
  (f) The Corporation shall not be required to reserve or keep available, out of its authorized but unissued Common Stock, or have sufficient authorized Common Stock to cover, the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon the conversion of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock prior to the Stockholder Approval. 
    
  (g) All shares of Common Stock which may be issued upon conversion of the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock or pursuant to Section II(b) hereof will, upon issuance by the Corporation, be validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable. 
    
  (h) Effective immediately prior to the Conversion Date, dividends shall no longer be declared on the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and such shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall cease to be outstanding, in each case, subject to the rights of Holders of such Series S Junior Preferred Stock to receive any declared and unpaid dividends on such shares and any other payments to which they are otherwise entitled pursuant to Section II(d), Section III or Section VI. 

Section III. Dividend Rights 
    
  (a) From and after the Closing Date to but excluding the Conversion Date, (i) the Holders shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board, but only out of assets legally available therefor, all cash dividends or distributions (including, but not limited to, regular quarterly dividends) declared and paid or made in respect of the shares of Common Stock, at the same time and on the same terms as holders of Common Stock, in an amount per share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock equal to the product of (i) the Applicable Conversion Rate then in effect and (ii) any per share dividend or distribution, as applicable, declared and paid or made in respect of each share of Common Stock (the    Common Equivalent Dividend Amount   ), and (ii) the Board may not declare and pay any such cash dividend or make any such cash distribution in respect of Common Stock unless the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board declares and pays to the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock, at the same time and on the same terms as holders of Common Stock, the Common Equivalent Dividend Amount per share. Notwithstanding any provision in this Section III(a) to the contrary, (i) the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive any cash dividend or distribution made with respect to the Common Stock after the Closing Date where the Record Date for determination of holders of Common Stock entitled to receive such dividend or distribution occurs prior to the Closing Date, and (ii) to the extent an automatic partial conversion pursuant to Section II(b) has occurred in a calendar quarter, the Common Equivalent Dividend Amount payable, if any, shall be determined as if the Initial Conversion Rate were in effect for the entire calendar quarter, unless the Record Date for payment of any such Common Equivalent Dividend Amount occurs after the issuance of such Common Stock, in which case the Common Equivalent Dividend Amount payable, if any, shall be determined as if the Adjusted Conversion Rate were in effect for the entire calendar quarter. 
    
  (b) From and after the date immediately following the Triggering Date to but excluding the Conversion Date, in addition to dividends payable under Section III(a), the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board, but only out of assets legally available therefor, non-cumulative cash dividends on the Adjusted Liquidation Preference per share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, payable quarterly in arrears, on each date that regular quarterly cash dividends are paid with respect to the Common Stock or, if no regular quarterly cash dividends are paid with respect to the Common Stock during such calendar quarter, the last Friday of such calendar quarter (or if such Friday is not a business day, the immediately preceding business day) (each, a    Special        Dividend Payment Date   ). Dividends payable pursuant to this Section III(b) (the    Special Dividend   ) will accrue on the Adjusted Liquidation Preference per share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock at a rate per annum equal to the Special Dividend Rate (as defined below) for each calendar quarter from the Triggering Date to the Conversion Date. The amount of Special Dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation will be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. No interest or sum of money in lieu of interest will be paid with respect to any Special Dividend paid later than the scheduled Special Dividend Payment Date. The    Special Dividend Rate    shall initially be 10% per annum and shall increase by two (2) percentage points on each subsequent Special Dividend Payment Date, subject to a maximum rate of 16% per annum. For purposes of dividends payable pursuant to this Section III(b), the Series S Junior Preferred Stock will rank prior to the Common Stock. 
    
  (c) Each dividend or distribution pursuant to (a) or (b) above will be payable to Holders of record of Series S Junior Preferred Stock as they appear in the records of the Corporation at the close of business on the same day as the Record Date for the corresponding dividend or distribution to the holders of shares of Common Stock (or, in the case of a Special Dividend Payment Date where there is no corresponding quarterly cash dividend with respect to the Common Stock during such calendar quarter, the fifteenth day of the calendar month in which the Special Dividend Payment Date falls). 
    
  (d) The cash dividends on the Series S Junior Preferred Stock are noncumulative. To the extent that any dividends 
  payable on the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock for a calendar quarter are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the applicable dividend payment date, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends for such calendar quarter on the related dividend payment date or at any time in the future or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent calendar quarter or dividend period with respect to Series S Junior Preferred Stock, Parity Stock (as defined below) or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. So long as any share of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared and paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared and made or set aside for payment on any Common Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Common Stock), (ii) no shares of Common Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Common Stock for or into other Common Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Common Stock for or into another share of Common Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Common Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Common Stock by the Corporation, and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock will be repurchased, redeemed, or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to pro rata offers to purchase all,  

or a pro rata portion, of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Common Stock, during a dividend period, unless, in each case, the full dividends payable pursuant to Section III(b) for the then-current calendar quarter on all outstanding shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock have been declared and paid or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment of those dividends has been set aside (except for (w) dividends or distributions paid in shares of, or options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock, (x) redemptions or purchases of any rights pursuant to a stockholder rights plan or by conversion or exchange of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock of the Corporation, (y) purchases by the Corporation or its affiliates as a broker, dealer, advisor, fiduciary, trustee or comparable capacity in connection with transactions effected by or for the account of customers of the Corporation or customers of any of its subsidiaries or in connection with the distribution or trading of such capital stock and (z) acquisitions of Common Stock in respect of exercises of employee equity awards and any related tax withholding and any purchases or acquisitions of Common Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofor or hereafter adopted). Subject to the next succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends payable pursuant to Section III(b) on all outstanding shares of Series S Preferred Stock for the then-current calendar quarter have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but does not make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a pro rata basis among the holders of the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments on a pro rata basis among the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock so that the amount of dividends paid per share on the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that payable dividends per share on the shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock (but without, in the case of any noncumulative preferred stock, accumulation of dividends for prior dividend periods) bear to each other. The foregoing right shall not be cumulative and shall not in any way create any claim or right in favor of Holders in the event that dividends have not been declared or paid in respect of any prior calendar quarter. As used herein,    Parity Stock    shall mean each class or series of equity securities of the Corporation issued after the Closing Date (other than Common Stock) that does not by its terms rank senior to the Series S Junior Preferred Stock with respect to payment of dividends or rights upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation (including options, warrants or rights to subscribe for or purchase shares of such equity securities). 
    
  (e) No interest or sum of money in lieu of interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments on 
  Series S Junior Preferred Stock or on such Parity Stock that may be in arrears. 
    
  (f) Holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on Series S Junior Preferred Stock as specified in this 
  Section III. Notwithstanding any provision in this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to receive any dividends for any calendar quarter in which the Conversion Date occurs, except to the extent that any such dividends have been declared by the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board and the Record Date for such dividend occurs prior to the Conversion Date. 
    
  Section IV. Voting 
    
  (a) Prior to the Conversion Date, Holders are entitled to vote (i) on all matters presented to the holders of Common Stock for approval, voting together with the holders of common stock as one class, as if, on the record date for determining the holders of the Corporation's securities entitled to vote with respect to such matter, the Holders in fact held the shares of Common Stock into which the Series S Junior Preferred Stock are then convertible based on the Applicable Conversion Rate then in effect or (ii) whenever the approval or other action of Holders is required by applicable law or by the Certificate of Incorporation; provided, however that Holders shall not be entitled to vote either together with the Common Stock or as a 
  separate class with respect to the Amendment at any meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation at which the Amendment is presented for approval. 

(b) If and whenever any Special Dividend payable to Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock or any other dividend payable to holders of any other class or series of preferred stock ranking equally with Series S Junior Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section IV have been conferred (   Voting Parity Securities   ) and are exercisable, have not been declared and paid for the equivalent of at least six or more calendar quarters (other than the calendar quarter in which the Series S Junior Preferred Stock is issued) (whether consecutive or not) (a    Nonpayment   ), the number of directors constituting the Board shall be increased by two, and the Holders of the outstanding shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock voting as a class with holders of any Voting Parity Securities, whether or not the holders of such Voting Parity Securities would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such Nonpayment did not exist, shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, with voting rights allocated pro rata based on liquidation preference, to the exclusion of the holders of Common Stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and provided further that the Board shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities is a    Junior        Preferred Director  .  Any Junior Preferred Director elected by the holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities may only be removed by the vote of the holders of record of the outstanding Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any such Voting Parity Securities, voting together as a single and separate class, at a meeting of the Corporation's stockholders called for that purpose. Any vacancy created by the removal of any Junior Preferred Director may be filled only by the vote of the holders of the outstanding Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any such Voting Parity Securities, voting together as a single and separate class. 
    
  (c) The election of the Junior Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting right has vested pursuant to Section IV(b) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any Holder of Series S Junior Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities, for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section IV(d) below. The Junior Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (d) Notice for a special meeting will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's by-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any Holder of Series S Junior Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation's expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section IV(d), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Junior Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation's stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section IV(e). In case any vacancy in the office of a Junior Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Junior Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Junior Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock (voting together as a single and separate class with holders of any Voting Parity Securities, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such Nonpayment did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (e) The voting rights described in Section IV(b) above will terminate, except as provided by law, upon the earlier of (A) the conversion of all of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock on the Conversion Date or (B) the payment of full Special Dividends on the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities, for the equivalent of at least four quarterly periods (but subject to revesting in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future dividend periods) following a Nonpayment on the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and any Voting Parity Securities. Upon termination of the special voting right described above, the terms of office of the Junior Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board will be reduced accordingly. Any Junior Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock (voting together as a single and separate class with holders of any Voting Parity Securities, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such Nonpayment did not exist). 

Section V. Liquidation 
    
  (a) In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation prior to the Conversion Date, whether voluntary or involuntary, Holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, subject to the rights of any creditors of the Corporation and the holders of any other stock of the Corporation ranking senior as to such distributions to the Series S Junior Preferred Stock, and before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock or other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to Series S Junior Preferred Stock as to such distribution, a liquidating distribution in an amount equal to the Applicable Liquidation Preference, plus any dividends that have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. 
    
  (b) If in any distribution described in Section V(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to all outstanding shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect to any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Series S Junior Preferred Stock as to such distribution, Holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and the holders of such other stock shall share ratably in any such distribution in proportion to the full respective distributions to which they are entitled. 
    
  (c) If the liquidating distribution provided in Section V(a) above has been paid in full to all Holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and the corresponding amounts payable with respect to any other stock of the Corporation ranking equally with Series S Junior Preferred Stock as to such distribution have been paid in full, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences; provided that if the amount of such assets or proceeds to be distributed with respect to a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Applicable Conversion Rate then in effect (the    As Converted Liquidation Amount   ) exceeds the Applicable Liquidation Preference, Holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, for each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock, an additional amount (the    Liquidation Participation Amount   ) out of such assets or proceeds such that the As-Converted Liquidation Amount equals the sum of the Applicable Liquidation Preference plus the Liquidation Participation Amount, after making appropriate adjustment such that the holders of Series S Junior Preferred Stock receive the same amount on an as-converted basis as the holders of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the Applicable Conversion Rate then in effect. 
    
  (d) For purposes of this Section V, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) or all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to 
  be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section VI. Adjustments For Reorganization Events 
    
  (a) Upon the occurrence of a Reorganization Event (as defined herein) prior to the Conversion Date, each share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to such Reorganization Event shall, without the consent of Holders, become convertible into the types and amounts of securities, cash, and other property that is or was receivable in such Reorganization Event by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series S Junior Preferred Stock was convertible immediately prior to such Reorganization Event in exchange for such shares of Common Stock (such securities, cash, and other property, the    Exchange Property   ). The Holders shall not have any separate class vote on any Reorganization Event. A    Reorganization Event    shall mean: 
    
  (i) any consolidation or merger of the Corporation with or into another person, in each case pursuant to which the 
  Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property of the Corporation or another person; 
    
  (ii) any sale, transfer, lease, or conveyance to another person of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole, in each case pursuant to which the Common Stock will be converted into cash, securities, or other property; 
    
  (iii) any reclassification of the Common Stock into securities other than the Common Stock; or 

(iv) any statutory exchange of the Corporation's securities for those of another person (other than in connection with a merger or acquisition). 
    
  (b) In the event that holders of the shares of the Common Stock have the opportunity to elect the form of consideration to be received in such Reorganization Event, the consideration that the Holders are entitled to receive upon conversion shall be deemed to be (i) the types and amounts of consideration received by a majority of the holders of shares of Common Stock that affirmatively make such an election or (ii) if no holders of shares of Common Stock affirmatively make such an election, the types and amounts of consideration actually received by such holders. 
    
  (c) The Corporation (or any successor) shall, within 20 days of the occurrence of any Reorganization Event, provide written notice to the Holders of such occurrence of such event and of the type and amount of the cash, securities or other property that constitutes the Exchange Property. Failure to deliver such notice shall not affect the operation of this Section VI. 
    
  Section VII. Reports as to Adjustments 
    
  Whenever the number of shares of Common Stock into which the shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock are convertible is adjusted as provided in Section I(e) or Section VI, the Corporation shall promptly compute such adjustment and furnish to the Holders a certificate, signed by the principal financial officer or treasurer of the Corporation, setting forth the number of shares of Common Stock into which each share of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock is convertible as a result of such adjustment, a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment and the computation thereof and when such adjustment will become effective. 
    
  Section VIII. Exclusion of Other Rights 
    
  Except as may otherwise be required by law, the shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall not have any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, other than those specifically set forth herein (as this Certificate of Designations may be amended from time to time) and in the Certificate of Incorporation. The shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall have no preemptive or subscription rights. 
    
  Section IX. Severability of Provisions 
    
  If any voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof set forth in this Certificate of Designations (as this Certificate of Designations may be amended from time to time) is invalid, unlawful or incapable of being enforced by reason of any rule of law or public policy, all other voting powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional and other special rights of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof set forth in this Certificate of Designations (as so amended) which can be given effect without the invalid, unlawful or unenforceable voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights of Series S Junior Preferred Stock and qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof shall, nevertheless, remain in full force and effect, and no voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights of Series S Junior Preferred Stock or qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof herein set forth shall be deemed dependent upon any other such voting powers, preferences or relative, participating, optional or other special rights of Series S Junior Preferred Stock or qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof unless so expressed herein. 
    
  Section X. Reissuance of Series S Junior Preferred Stock 
    
  Shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock that have been issued and reacquired in any manner, including shares purchased by the Corporation or exchanged or converted, shall (upon compliance with any applicable provisions of the laws of the State of Delaware) have the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock of the Corporation undesignated as to series and may be designated or redesignated and issued or reissued, as the case may be, as part of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation. The Corporation may from time to time take such appropriate action as may be necessary to reduce the authorized number of shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section XI. Rank 
    
  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board or any authorized committee of the Board, without the vote of the Holders of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of stock ranking junior or senior to, or on parity with, the Series S Junior Preferred Stock as to dividends and the distribution of assets upon any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

Section XII. Determinations 
    
  The Corporation shall be solely responsible for making all calculations called for hereunder. Such calculations include, but are not limited to, the calculations under Section I hereof. The Corporation covenants to make all such calculations in good faith. Absent manifest error, such calculations shall be final and binding on all Holders of shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock. The Corporation shall have the power to resolve any ambiguity and its action in so doing, as evidenced by a resolution of the Board, shall be final and conclusive unless clearly inconsistent with the intent hereof. Amounts resulting from any calculation will be rounded, if necessary, to the nearest one ten-thousandth, with five one-hundred thousandths being rounded upwards. 
    
  Section XIII. No Redemption 
    
  The Corporation may not, at any time, redeem the outstanding shares of the Series S Junior Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section XIV. Repurchases 
    
  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board or any duly authorized committee of the Board may determine; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section XV. No Sinking Fund 
    
  Shares of Series S Junior Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  Section XVI. Notices 
    
  All notices, requests and other communications to the Holder of Series S Junior Preferred Stock shall be in writing 
  (including facsimile transmission) and shall be given at the address of such Holder as shown on the books of the Corporation. A Holder of Series S Junior Preferred Stock may waive any notice required hereunder by a writing signed before or after the time required for notice or the action in question. Notice shall be deemed given on the earlier of the date received or three business days after the date such notice is mailed by first-class mail, postage prepaid. 

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT TO THE 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 242 
  of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the 
  State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1.    The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by changing the number of shares of stock the Corporation is authorized to issue, so that, the first sentence of Article 3 thereof shall read as follows: 
    
   3.    The number of shares, par value $.01 per share, the Corporation is authorized to issue is Eleven 
  Billion Four Hundred Million (11,400,000,000), divided into the following classes: 

2.    The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General 
  Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 23rd day of February, 2010. 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT  
  TO THE 
  AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 242 
  of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation duly organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the  Corporation ), does hereby certify that: 
    
  1.    The Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended by changing the number of shares of stock the Corporation is authorized to issue, so that, the first sentence of Article 3 thereof shall read as follows: 
    
   3.    The number of shares, par value $.01 per share, the Corporation is authorized to issue is Twelve Billion 
  Nine Hundred Million (12,900,000,000), divided into the following classes: 

2.    The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 of the General 
  Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be executed by a duly authorized officer on this 28  th   day of April, 2010. 

By: 
    /s/ TERESA M. BRENNER 
      Name: 
    Teresa M. Brenner 
      Title: 
    Associate General Counsel 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  6% CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES T  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION  , a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), in accordance with the provisions of Sections 103 and 151 thereof, DOES HEREBY CERTIFY: 
    
  The board of directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ), in accordance with the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and applicable law, at a meeting duly called and held on August 25, 2011, adopted the following resolution creating a series of 50,000 shares of Preferred Stock of the Corporation designated as    6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T   . 
    
  RESOLVED  , that pursuant to the authority vested in the Board of Directors, the provisions of the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be and hereby is created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.   Designation  . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock is  6% Cumulative Perpetual 
  Preferred Stock, Series T  (   Series T   ). Each share of Series T shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series T. 
    
  Section 2.   Number of Shares  . The authorized number of shares of Series T shall be 50,000. Shares of Series T that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (  provided   that any such cancelled shares of Series T may be reissued only as shares of any now or hereafter designated series other than Series T). 
    
  Section 3.   Definitions  . As used herein with respect to Series T: 
  (a)    Bylaws    means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time.  
    
  (b)    Business Day    means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
    
  (c)    Certificate of Designations    means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series T, as it may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (d)    Certification of Incorporation    shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations. 
    
  (e)    Common Stock    means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation. 
    
  (f)    Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series T) that ranks junior to Series T either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (g)    Original Issue Date    means September 1, 2011. 

(h)    Parity Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series T) that ranks equally with Series T both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation's (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (vi) 8.20% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series H, (vii) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (x) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (xi) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (xii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series N, (xiii) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series Q, (xiv) Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series R, (xv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (xvi) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (xvii) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (xviii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (xix) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, (xx) 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6, (xxi) 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7 and (xxii) 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8. 
    
  (i)    Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series T. 
    
  (j)    Voting Parity Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series T are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
    
  (k)    Voting Preferred Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series T are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series T) that rank equally with Series T either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
    
  Section 4.   Dividends  . 
    
  (a)   Rate  . Holders of Series T shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Series T, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a per annum rate of 6% (as such may be adjusted pursuant to this Section 4(a), the    Dividend Rate   ) on (i) the amount of $100,000 per share of Series T and (ii) the amount of accrued and unpaid dividends on such share of Series T, if any (giving effect to (A) any dividends paid through the Dividend Payment Date (as defined below) that begins such Dividend Period (other than the initial Dividend Period) and (B) any dividends (including dividends thereon at a per annum rate equal to the Dividend Rate to the date of payment) paid during such Dividend Period);   provided   that if, on any Dividend Payment Date, the holder of record (for such Dividend Payment Date) of a share of Series T shall not have received in cash the full amount of any dividend required to be paid on such share on such Dividend Payment Date pursuant to this Section 4(a), then the Dividend Rate shall automatically be at a per annum rate of 8% with respect to the Dividend Period for which the full amount of any dividend required to be paid on such share on such Dividend Payment Date pursuant to this Section 4(a) was not made and for all Dividend Periods thereafter. Dividends shall begin to accrue and be cumulative from the Original Issue Date, shall compound on each Dividend Payment Date (  i.e.  , no dividends shall accrue on other dividends unless and until the first Dividend Payment Date for such other dividends has passed without such other dividends having been paid on such date) and shall be payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) on each October 10, January 10, April 10 and July 10 (each, a    Dividend Payment Date   ), commencing on October 10, 2011;   provided   that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series T on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends payable on the Series T in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on the Series T on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month. 

Dividends that are payable on Series T on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series T as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date (as originally scheduled) or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a    Dividend Record Date   ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day. 
    
  Each dividend period (a    Dividend Period   ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which shall commence on and include the Original Issue Date of the Series T) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period. 
    
  Holders of Series T shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series T as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations). 
    
  (b)   Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series T remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock or of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock (with the same or lesser per share liquidation amount) or Junior Stock) during a Dividend Period, unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all past Dividend Periods, including the latest completed Dividend Period (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), on all outstanding shares of Series T have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Series T on the applicable record date). The foregoing provision shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the cashless exercises and similar actions under any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice prior to the Original Issuance Date; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) in connection with the issuance of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, ordinary sale and repurchase transactions to facilitate the distribution of such Junior Stock or Parity Stock; and (iv) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of, and at the ultimate cost of, any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians. 
    
  When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon the Series T and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series T and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all accrued and unpaid dividends per share on the Series T (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other. 
    
  Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series T shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 5.   Liquidation Rights  . 

(a)   Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation  . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series T shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series T, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series T as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $100,000 per share and (ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the date of payment. Furthermore, without limiting in any way the obligation of the Corporation to make the payments specified in the immediately preceding sentence, in connection with the payment of the amounts specified in clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that, immediately prior to any such liquidation, dissolution or winding up, the Corporation shall declare and pay any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) outstanding as of such time. 
    
  (b)   Partial Payment  . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series T and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series T as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series T and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series T and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the    Liquidation        Preference    of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends (and, in the case of any holder of stock, including the Series T, on which dividends accrue on a cumulative basis, an amount equal to any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, as applicable),   provided   that the Liquidation Preference for any share of Series T shall be determined in accordance with Section 5(a) above. 
    
  (c)   Residual Distributions  . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series T, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)   Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series T receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.   Redemption  . 
    
  (a)   Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at its option, subject to the approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) $105,000 per share and (ii) the accrued and unpaid dividends thereon (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount), whether or not declared, to the redemption date. Without limiting in any way the obligation of the Corporation to make the payments specified in the immediately preceding sentence, in connection with the payment of the amounts specified in clause (ii) of the immediately preceding sentence, the Corporation shall use its best efforts to ensure that, immediately prior to any such redemption, the Corporation shall declare and pay any accrued and unpaid dividends (including, if applicable as provided in Section 4(a) above, dividends on such amount) outstanding as of such time. The minimum number of shares of Series T redeemable at any time is the lesser of (x) 10,000 shares of Series T and (y) the number of shares of Series T outstanding. The redemption price for any shares of Series T shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 

(b)   No Sinking Fund  . The Series T will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series T will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series T. 
    
  (c)   Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series T shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series T designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series T. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series T are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series T at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series T to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon receipt of any notice of redemption hereunder, the holder of any share of Series T outstanding at such time shall have five (5) Business Days to deliver to the Corporation written notice of its election to pay some or all of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of such holder's rights under any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation originally issued by the Corporation in connection with the issuance of the Series T by means of a surrender to the Corporation of shares of the Series T in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof and of any such warrant, and the Corporation's right to redeem the shares of Series T specified in such notice of redemption shall be (x) tolled during such five (5) Business Day period and (y) if the holder so elects to exercise such warrant and surrender such shares of Series T, in whole or in part, automatically terminated only with respect to such shares of Series T to be so surrendered. 
    
  (d)   Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series T shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  (e)   Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $50 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.   Conversion  . Holders of Series T shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities, except in connection with the surrender to the Corporation of shares of the Series T to satisfy any portion of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation issued in connection with the original issuance of the Series T by the Corporation. 
    
  Section 8.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . The holders of Series T shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  (b)   Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . So long as any shares of Series T are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series T and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon,  

voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 
    
  (i)   Authorization of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series T with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)   Amendment of Series T  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of 
  Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T, taken as a whole; or 
    
  (iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series T, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series T remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series T immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 8(b), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series T with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8 (b) would adversely affect the Series T and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series T and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8 (b) would adversely affect the Series T but would not similarly adversely affect all other series of Voting Parity Stock, then only the Series T and each other series of Voting Parity Stock as is similarly adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter, if any, shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  (c)   Series T Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . In addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, so long as at least 10,000 shares of Series T are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 50.1% of the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, voting in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 
    
  (i)   Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or the issuance of any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, in each case, ranking senior to the Series T with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)   Amendment of Series T  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to affect or change the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T so as not to be substantially similar to those in effect immediately prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal; or 
    
  (iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series T, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series T remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof as are substantially similar to the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions of the Series T immediately prior to such consummation;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 8 (c), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series T with respect to  

the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T. 
    
  (d)   Changes after Provision for Redemption  . No vote or consent of the holders of Series T shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series T (or, in the case of Section 8(c), more than 40,000 shares of Series T) shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)   Procedures for Voting and Consents  . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series T (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series T is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series T and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series T are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent (  provided   that the specified liquidation amount for any share of Series T shall be the Liquidation Preference for such share) as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent. 
    
  Section 9.   Record Holders  . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for 
  the Series T may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series T as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  Section 10.   Notices  . All notices or communications in respect of Series T shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series T are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Series T in any manner permitted by such facility. 
    
  Section 11.   No Preemptive Rights  . No share of Series T shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted. 
    
  Section 12.   Replacement Certificates  . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder's expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder's expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation. 
    
  Section 13.   Surrender Rights  . In connection with the exercise of any rights under any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation issued in connection with the original issuance of the Series T, a holder of shares of Series T shall have the right to pay some or all of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of such holder's rights under any such warrant by means of a surrender to the Corporation of the applicable amount shares of the Series T. 
    
  Section 14.   Other Rights  . The shares of Series T shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law. 

I  N   W  ITNESS   W  HEREOF  , BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION has caused this certificate to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 31  st   day of August, 2011. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ MARK D. LINSZ 
      Name: 
    Mark D. Linsz 
      Title: 
    Corporate Treasurer 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES U  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Series U Final Terms Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on May 21, 2013, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  Resolved,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated May 20, 2013, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.        Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U  (the    Series U Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series U Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series U Preferred Stock. Series U Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.        Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be 40,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series U Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series U Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series U Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means, for the Fixed Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina; and, for the Floating Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina and is a London Banking Day. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series U Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below). 
    
     Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series U Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series U Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official  

pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series U Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series U Preferred Stock then outstanding as  Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series U Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.  
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation's common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series U Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation's (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series J, (h) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (i) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (j) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (k) 6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (l) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (m) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (n) 6.375% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (o) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (p) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, (q) 6.70% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 6, (r) 6.25% Noncumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series 7, (s) 8.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 8, and (t) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series U Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series U Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series U Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
   Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01,  Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will  

request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation) to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below). The Calculation Agent's establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series U Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series U Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on June 1 and December 1 of each year, beginning on December 1, 2013, and (y) for the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1, beginning on September 1, 2023;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless, for the Fixed Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar year or, for the Floating Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar month, then in each such case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day) (i) on or prior to June 1, 2023, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and (ii) after June 1, 2023, with dividends accruing to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series U Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series U Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 5.200%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding, June 1, 2023 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) thereafter, Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 3.135%, for each Dividend Period from, and including, June 1, 2023 (the    Floating Rate Period   ). The record date for payment of dividends on the Series U Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month immediately preceding the month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls. For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. 
    
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be non- cumulative. To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series U Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series U Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series U Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series U Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in  

each case unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series U Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation's Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series U Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series U Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series U Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then- current dividend payments due on the shares of Series U Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series U Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series U Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation's depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)        Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series U Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series U Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series U Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series U Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption  . 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series U Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after the Dividend Payment Date on June 1 2023, or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series U Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provide below) dividends that have accrued but  

have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series U Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series U Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series U Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series U Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series U Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series U Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series U Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series U Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series U Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)        General.   The holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law. 
    
  (b)        Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i)        Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series U Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series U Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock  

(together with holders of any class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of the such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation's securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series U Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series U Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii)        Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series U Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation's stock that ranks on parity with Series U Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series U Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation's principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series U Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series U Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii)        Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation's By-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series U Preferred Stock may (at our expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of our stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series U Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series U Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series U Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non- payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series U Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation's authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least of the voting power of the Series U Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series U Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any  

obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock. Further, so long as any shares of the Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least of the shares of the Series U Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series U Preferred Stock. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series U Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which (A) the shares of the Series U Preferred Stock remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series U Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series U Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)        No Vote if Shares Redeemed.   No vote or consent of the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series U Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series U Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Corporation and to applicable law. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series U Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series U Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series U Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.        Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series U Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.        Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series U Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series U Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designation to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 21  st   day of May, 2013. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ ROSS E. JEFFRIES JR. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Corporate Secretary and Associate General Council 

CERTIFICATE OF AMENDMENT TO THE CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  6% NON-CUMULATIVE PERPETUAL PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES T  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Pursuant to Section 242 
  of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION  , a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), does hereby certify that: 
           1. 
    The Certificate of Designations of the Corporation s 6% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, which was previously filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on August 31, 2011, is hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows: 
       
  Section 1.   Designation  . The distinctive serial designation of such series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, is  6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T  (   Series T   ). Each share of Series T shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series T. 
  Section 2.   Number of Shares  . The authorized number of shares of Series T shall be 50,000. Shares of Series T that are redeemed, purchased or otherwise acquired by the Corporation shall revert to authorized but unissued shares of Preferred Stock (  provided   that any such cancelled shares of Series T may be reissued only as shares of any now or hereafter designated series other than Series T). 
  Section 3. Definitions. As used herein with respect to Series T:  
    
  (a)  Amendment Effective Date  means May 7, 2014. 
    
  (b)    Bylaws    means the amended and restated bylaws of the Corporation, as they may be amended from time to time. 
    
  (c)    Business Day    means a day that is a Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday and is not a day on which banking institutions in New York City generally are authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close. 
  (d)    Certificate of Designations    means this Certificate of Designations relating to the Series T, as it may be amended from time to time. 
  (e)    Certification of Incorporation    shall mean the amended and restated certificate of incorporation of the Corporation, as it may be amended from time to time, and shall include this Certificate of Designations. 
    
  (f)    Common Stock    means the common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation. 
    
  (g)    Junior Stock    means the Common Stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series T) that ranks junior to Series T either or both as to the payment of dividends and/or as to the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  (h)    Original Issue Date    means September 1, 2011. 

(i)    Parity Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation (other than Series T) that ranks equally with Series T both in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation (in each case without regard to whether dividends accrue cumulatively or non-cumulatively). Without limiting the foregoing, Parity Stock shall include the Corporation s (i) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (ii) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (iii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (iv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (v) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (vi) 6.625% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (vii) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (viii) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (ix) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (x) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Semi-Annual Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (xi) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (xii) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (xiii) 6.375% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (xiv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4 and (xv) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5. 
    
  (j)    Preferred Stock    means any and all series of preferred stock of the Corporation, including the Series T. 
    
  (k)    Voting Parity Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series T are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Parity Stock upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
    
  (l)    Voting Preferred Stock    means, with regard to any matter as to which the holders of Series T are entitled to vote as specified in Section 8 of this Certificate of Designations, any and all series of Preferred Stock (other than Series T) that rank equally with Series T either as to the payment of dividends or as to the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation and upon which like voting rights have been conferred and are exercisable with respect to such matter. 
  Section 4.   Dividends  . 
  (a)   Rate  . Holders of Series T shall be entitled to receive, on each share of Series T, out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends under Delaware law, non-cumulative cash dividends with respect to each Dividend Period (as defined below) at a per annum rate of 6% (the    Dividend Rate   ) on the amount of $100,000 per share of Series T. Following the Amendment Effective Date, dividends shall be payable in arrears (as provided below in this Section 4(a)), but only when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), on each October 10, January 10, April 10 and July 10 (each, a    Dividend Payment Date   ), commencing on October 10, 2011;   provided   that if any such Dividend Payment Date would otherwise occur on a day that is not a Business Day, such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be (and any dividend payable on Series T on such Dividend Payment Date shall instead be payable on) the immediately succeeding Business Day. Dividends payable on the Series T in respect of any Dividend Period shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months. The amount of dividends payable on the Series T on any date prior to the end of a Dividend Period, and for the initial Dividend Period, shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year consisting of twelve 30-day months, and actual days elapsed over a 30-day month. 
    
  Dividends that are payable on Series T on any Dividend Payment Date will be payable to holders of record of Series T as they appear on the stock register of the Corporation on the applicable record date, which shall be the 15th calendar day before such Dividend Payment Date (as originally scheduled) or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors (or a duly  

authorized committee of the Board of Directors) that is not more than 60 nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date (each, a    Dividend Record Date   ). Any such day that is a Dividend Record Date shall be a Dividend Record Date whether or not such day is a Business Day. 
  Each dividend period (a    Dividend Period   ) shall commence on and include a Dividend Payment Date (other than the initial Dividend Period, which commenced on and included the Original Issue Date of the Series T) and shall end on and include the calendar day next preceding the next Dividend Payment Date. Dividends payable in respect of a Dividend Period shall be payable in arrears on the first Dividend Payment Date after such Dividend Period. 
    
  Holders of Series T shall not be entitled to any dividends, whether payable in cash, securities or other property, other than dividends (if any) declared and payable on the Series T as specified in this Section 4 (subject to the other provisions of this Certificate of Designations). 
    
  (b)   Non-Cumulative Dividends  . Dividends on shares of Series T shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series T with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series T shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to the Series T, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)   Priority of Dividends  . So long as any share of Series T remains outstanding, no dividend shall be declared or paid on the Common Stock or any other shares of Junior Stock (other than a dividend payable solely in Junior Stock), and no Common Stock, Junior Stock or Parity Stock shall be purchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock or of Parity Stock for or into other Parity Stock (with the same or lesser aggregate liquidation amount) or Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock or of one share of Parity Stock for or into another share of Parity Stock (with the same or lesser per share liquidation amount) or Junior Stock) in respect of or during a particular Dividend Period as the case may be, unless dividends for such Dividend Period on all outstanding shares of Series T have been or are contemporaneously declared and paid in full (or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof has been set aside for the benefit of the holders of shares of Series T on the applicable record date). The foregoing provision shall not apply to (i) redemptions, purchases or other acquisitions of shares of Common Stock or other Junior Stock in connection with the cashless exercises and similar actions under any employee benefit plan in the ordinary course of business and consistent with past practice prior to the Original Issue Date; (ii) purchases or other acquisitions by a broker-dealer subsidiary of the Corporation solely for the purpose of market-making, stabilization or customer facilitation transactions in Junior Stock or Parity Stock in the ordinary course of its business; (iii) in connection with the issuance of Junior Stock or Parity Stock, ordinary sale and repurchase transactions to facilitate the distribution of such Junior Stock or Parity Stock; and (iv) the acquisition by the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries of record ownership in Junior Stock or Parity Stock for the beneficial ownership of, and at the ultimate cost of, any other persons (other than the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries), including as trustees or custodians. 
    
  When dividends are not paid (or declared and a sum sufficient for payment thereof set aside for the benefit of the holders thereof on the applicable record date) on any Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment 

dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within a Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) in full upon the Series T and any shares of Parity Stock, all dividends declared on the Series T and all such Parity Stock and payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) shall be declared pro rata so that the respective amounts of such dividends declared shall bear the same ratio to each other as all declared and unpaid dividends per share on the Series T and all Parity Stock payable on such Dividend Payment Date (or, in the case of Parity Stock having dividend payment dates different from the Dividend Payment Dates, on a dividend payment date falling within the Dividend Period related to such Dividend Payment Date) bear to each other. 
    
  Subject to the foregoing, such dividends (payable in cash, securities or other property) as may be determined by the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors) may be declared and paid on any securities, including Common Stock and other Junior Stock, from time to time out of any funds legally available for such payment, and the Series T shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividends. 
    
  Section 5.   Liquidation Rights  . 
    
  (a)   Voluntary or Involuntary Liquidation  . In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, holders of Series T shall be entitled to receive for each share of Series T, out of the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof (whether capital or surplus) available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, and after satisfaction of all liabilities and obligations to creditors of the Corporation, before any distribution of such assets or proceeds is made to or set aside for the holders of Common Stock and any other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series T as to such distribution, payment in full in an amount equal to the sum of (i) $100,000 per share and (ii) any declared and unpaid dividends thereon, without cumulation of any undeclared dividends, to but excluding the date of liquidation, dissolution or winding up. The Series T may be fully subordinated to interests held by the U.S. government in the event that the Corporation enters into a receivership, insolvency, liquidation or similar proceeding. 
    
  (b)   Partial Payment  . If in any distribution described in Section 5(a) above the assets of the Corporation or proceeds thereof are not sufficient to pay the Liquidation Preferences (as defined below) in full to all holders of Series T and all holders of any stock of the Corporation ranking equally with the Series T as to such distribution, the amounts paid to the holders of Series T and to the holders of all such other stock shall be paid   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate Liquidation Preferences of the holders of Series T and the holders of all such other stock. In any such distribution, the    Liquidation        Preference    of any holder of stock of the Corporation shall mean the amount otherwise payable to such holder in such distribution (assuming no limitation on the assets of the Corporation available for such distribution), including an amount equal to any declared but unpaid dividends,   provided   that the Liquidation Preference for any share of Series T shall be determined in accordance with Section 5(a) above. 
    
  (c)   Residual Distributions  . If the Liquidation Preference has been paid in full to all holders of Series T, the holders of other stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation (or proceeds thereof) according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)   Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the merger or consolidation of the Corporation with any other corporation or other entity, including a merger or consolidation in which the holders of Series  

T receive cash, securities or other property for their shares, or the sale, lease or exchange (for cash, securities or other property) of all or substantially all of the assets of the Corporation, shall not constitute a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.   Redemption  . 
    
  (a)   Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at its option, subject to any required prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and to the satisfaction of any conditions set forth in the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System applicable to redemption of the shares of Series T, may redeem, in whole at any time or in part from time to time, but in any case no earlier than May 7, 2019 the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, upon notice given as provided in Section 6(c) below, at a redemption price equal to the sum of (i) $105,000 per share and (ii) any declared and unpaid dividends thereon, without cumulation for any undeclared dividends, to but excluding the redemption date. The minimum number of shares of Series T redeemable at any time is the lesser of (x) 10,000 shares of Series T and (y) the number of shares of Series T outstanding. The redemption price for any shares of Series T shall be payable on the redemption date to the holder of such shares against surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing such shares to the Corporation or its agent. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the Dividend Record Date for a Dividend Period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such Dividend Record Date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)   No Sinking Fund  . The Series T will not be subject to any mandatory redemption, sinking fund or other similar provisions. Holders of Series T will have no right to require redemption of any shares of Series T. 
    
  (c)   Notice of Redemption  . Notice of every redemption of shares of Series T shall be given by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of the shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the books of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Subsection shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series T designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series T. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series T are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any other similar facility, notice of redemption may be given to the holders of Series T at such time and in any manner permitted by such facility. Each notice of redemption given to a holder shall state: (1) the redemption date; (2) the number of shares of Series T to be redeemed and, if less than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (3) the redemption price; and (4) the place or places where certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, upon receipt of any notice of redemption hereunder, the holder of any share of Series T outstanding at such time shall have five (5) Business Days to deliver to the Corporation written notice of its election to pay some or all of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of such holder s rights under any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation originally issued by the Corporation in connection with the issuance of the Series T by means of a surrender to the Corporation of shares of the Series T in accordance with the terms and conditions hereof and of any such warrant, and the Corporation s right to redeem the shares of Series T specified in such notice of redemption shall be (x) tolled during such five (5) Business Day period and (y) if the holder so elects to exercise such warrant and surrender such  

shares of Series T, in whole or in part, automatically terminated only with respect to such shares of Series T to be so surrendered. 
    
  (d)   Partial Redemption  . In case of any redemption of part of the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, the shares to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   or in such other manner as the Corporation may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions hereof, the Corporation shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series T shall be redeemed from time to time. If fewer than all the shares represented by any certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares without charge to the holder thereof. 
    
  (e)   Effectiveness of Redemption  . If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been deposited by the Corporation, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, with a bank or trust company doing business in the Borough of Manhattan, The City of New York, and having a capital and surplus of at least $50 million and selected by the Board of Directors, so as to be and continue to be available solely therefor, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date dividends shall cease to accrue on all shares so called for redemption, all shares so called for redemption shall no longer be deemed outstanding and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company, without interest. Any funds unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released to the Corporation, after which time the holders of the shares so called for redemption shall look only to the Corporation for payment of the redemption price of such shares. 
    
  Section 7.   Conversion  . Holders of Series T shares shall have no right to exchange or convert such shares into any other securities, except in connection with the surrender to the Corporation of shares of the Series T to satisfy any portion of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation issued in connection with the original issuance of the Series T by the Corporation. 
    
  Section 8.   Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)   General  . The holders of Series T shall not have any voting rights except as set forth below or as otherwise from time to time required by law. 
    
  (b)   Class Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . So long as any shares of Series T are outstanding, in addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 2/3% of the shares of Series T and any Voting Preferred Stock at the time outstanding and entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 
    
  (i)   Authorization of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation ranking senior to the Series T with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 

(ii)   Amendment of Series T  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to materially and adversely affect the special rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T, taken as a whole; or 
    
  (iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series T, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series T remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, taken as a whole, as are not materially less favorable to the holders thereof than the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof, of the Series T immediately prior to such consummation, taken as a whole;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 8(b), any increase in the amount of the authorized Preferred Stock, or the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series T with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T. 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8 (b) would adversely affect the Series T and one or more but not all other series of Preferred Stock, then only the Series T and such series of Preferred Stock as are adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  If any amendment, alteration, repeal, share exchange, reclassification, merger or consolidation specified in this Section 8 (b) would adversely affect the Series T but would not similarly adversely affect all other series of Voting Parity Stock, then only the Series T and each other series of Voting Parity Stock as is similarly adversely affected by and entitled to vote on the matter, if any, shall vote on the matter together as a single class (in lieu of all other series of Preferred Stock). 
    
  (c)   Series T Voting Rights as to Particular Matters  . In addition to any other vote or consent of stockholders required by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation, so long as at least 10,000 shares of Series T are outstanding, the vote or consent of the holders of at least 50.1% of the shares of Series T at the time outstanding, voting in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or by vote at any meeting called for the purpose, shall be necessary for effecting or validating: 
    
  (i)   Authorization or Issuance of Senior Stock  . Any amendment or alteration of the Certificate of Incorporation to authorize or create, or increase the authorized amount of, any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, or the issuance of any shares of any class or series of capital stock of the Corporation, in each case, ranking senior to the Series T with respect to either or both the payment of dividends and/or the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation; 
    
  (ii)   Amendment of Series T  . Any amendment, alteration or repeal of any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation so as to affect or change the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T so as not to be substantially similar to those in effect immediately prior to such amendment, alteration or repeal; or 

(iii)   Share Exchanges, Reclassifications, Mergers and Consolidations  . Any consummation of a binding share exchange or reclassification involving the Series T, or of a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with another corporation or other entity, unless in each case (x) the shares of Series T remain outstanding or, in the case of any such merger or consolidation with respect to which the Corporation is not the surviving or resulting entity, are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving or resulting entity or its ultimate parent, and (y) such shares remaining outstanding or such preference securities, as the case may be, have such rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions thereof as are substantially similar to the rights, preferences, privileges and voting powers, and limitations and restrictions of the Series T immediately prior to such consummation;   provided  ,   however  , that for all purposes of this Section 8(c), the creation and issuance, or an increase in the authorized or issued amount, of any other series of Preferred Stock ranking equally with and/or junior to the Series T with respect to the payment of dividends (whether such dividends are cumulative or non-cumulative) and/or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation will not be deemed to adversely affect the rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers of the Series T. 
    
  (d)   Changes after Provision for Redemption  . No vote or consent of the holders of Series T shall be required pursuant to Section 8(b) or (c) above if, at or prior to the time when any such vote or consent would otherwise be required pursuant to such Section, all outstanding shares of Series T (or, in the case of Section 8(c), more than 40,000 shares of Series T) shall have been redeemed, or shall have been called for redemption upon proper notice and sufficient funds shall have been deposited in trust for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)   Procedures for Voting and Consents  . The rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series T (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such a meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules of the Board of Directors (or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors), in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Bylaws, and applicable law and the rules of any national securities exchange or other trading facility on which the Series T is listed or traded at the time. Whether the vote or consent of the holders of a plurality, majority or other portion of the shares of Series T and any Voting Preferred Stock has been cast or given on any matter on which the holders of shares of Series T are entitled to vote shall be determined by the Corporation by reference to the specified liquidation amount of the shares voted or covered by the consent (  provided   that the specified liquidation amount for any share of Series T shall be the Liquidation Preference for such share) as if the Corporation were liquidated on the record date for such vote or consent, if any, or, in the absence of a record date, on the date for such vote or consent. 
    
  Section 9.   Record Holders  . To the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the Corporation and the transfer agent for the Series T may deem and treat the record holder of any share of Series T as the true and lawful owner thereof for all purposes, and neither the Corporation nor such transfer agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. 
    
  Section 10.   Notices  . All notices or communications in respect of Series T shall be sufficiently given if given in writing and delivered in person or by first class mail, postage prepaid, or if given in such other manner as may be permitted in this Certificate of Designations, in the Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws or by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, 

if the Series T are issued in book-entry form through The Depository Trust Company or any similar facility, such notices may be given to the holders of Series T in any manner permitted by such facility. 
    
  Section 11.   No Preemptive Rights  . No share of Series T shall have any rights of preemption whatsoever as to any securities of the Corporation, or any warrants, rights or options issued or granted with respect thereto, regardless of how such securities, or such warrants, rights or options, may be designated, issued or granted. 
    
  Section 12.   Replacement Certificates  . The Corporation shall replace any mutilated certificate at the holder s expense upon surrender of that certificate to the Corporation. The Corporation shall replace certificates that become destroyed, stolen or lost at the holder s expense upon delivery to the Corporation of reasonably satisfactory evidence that the certificate has been destroyed, stolen or lost, together with any indemnity that may be reasonably required by the Corporation. 
    
  Section 13.   Surrender Rights  . In connection with the exercise of any rights under any warrant to purchase Common Stock of the Corporation issued in connection with the original issuance of the Series T, a holder of shares of Series T shall have the right to pay some or all of the applicable exercise price with respect to an exercise, in whole or in part, of such holder s rights under any such warrant by means of a surrender to the Corporation of the applicable amount shares of the Series T. 
    
  Section 14.   Other Rights  . The shares of Series T shall not have any rights, preferences, privileges or voting powers or relative, participating, optional or other special rights, or qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, other than as set forth herein or in the Certificate of Incorporation or as provided by applicable law. 
    
  2.    The foregoing amendment was duly adopted in accordance with the provision of Section 242 of the General Corporation 
    
  Law of the State of Delaware. 
    
  I  N   W  ITNESS   W  HEREOF  , BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION has caused this Certificate of Amendment to be signed by its duly authorized officer this 7  th   day of May, 2014. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ ROSS E. JEFFRIES JR. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Deputy General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES V  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the Series V Final Terms Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on June 12, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 

RESOLVED,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated May 7, 2014, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 

Section 1.        Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V  (the    Series V Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series V Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series V Preferred Stock. Series V Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 

Section 2.        Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be 60,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series V Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series V Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series V Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means, for the Fixed Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina; and, for the Floating Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina and is a London Banking Day. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series V Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below). 
    
     Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series V Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series V Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series V Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series V Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series V Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 

Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.  
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series V Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to- Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (m) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (n) 6.375% Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (o) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (p) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, and (q) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series V Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series V Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 

Series V Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
   Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01,  Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000. However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation) to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below). The Calculation Agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series V Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series V Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on June 17 and December 17 of each year, beginning on December 17, 2014, and (y) for  

the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each March 17, June 17, September 17 and December 17, beginning on September 17, 2019;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless, for the Fixed Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar year or, for the Floating Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar month, then in each such case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day) (i) on or prior to June 17, 2019, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and (ii) after June 17, 2019, with dividends accruing to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series V Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series V Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 5.125%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding, June 17, 2019 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) thereafter, Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 3.387%, for each Dividend Period from, and including, June 17, 2019 (the    Floating Rate Period   ). The record date for payment of dividends on the Series V Preferred Stock shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date. For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series V Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series V Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series V Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and  

other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series V Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series V Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series V Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series V Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series V Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series V Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary  

or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)        Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series V Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series V Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series V Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series V Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this  Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption  . 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series V Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after June 17, 2019, or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series V Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the  

holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series V Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series V Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series V Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series V Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series V Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series V Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series V Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series V Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series V Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount  

payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)        General.   The holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law. 
    
  (b)        Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i)        Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series V Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series V Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series V Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series V Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series V Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
  (ii)        Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series V Preferred Stock and any other  

class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series V Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series V Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series V Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series V Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii)        Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series V Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series V Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series V Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series V Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series V Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series V  

Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least of the voting power of the Series V Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series V Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock. Further, so long as any shares of the Series V Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least of the shares of the Series V Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series V Preferred Stock. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series V Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series V Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series V Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series V Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)        No Vote if Shares Redeemed.   No vote or consent of the holders of the Series V Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series V Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 

(e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series V Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Corporation and to applicable law. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series V Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series V Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series V Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.        Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series V Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.     Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series V Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series V Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 17  th   day of June, 2014. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ ROSS E. JEFFRIES, JR. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES X  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the New Preferred Stock Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on September 2, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated May 7, 2014 and July 24, 2014, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.        Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X  (the    Series X Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series X Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series X Preferred Stock. Series X Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.        Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be 80,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series X Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series X Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series X Preferred Stock: 

59261503_5 

Business Day    means, for the Fixed Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina; and, for the Floating Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina and is a London Banking Day. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series X Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below). 
    
     Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series X Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series X Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series X Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series X Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series X Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.  
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series X Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred 
    2 
  59261503_5 

Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to- Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V, (m) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (n) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (o) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (p) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (q) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, (r) if issued, 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W, and (s) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series X Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series X Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series X Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
   Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ). If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01,  Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation) to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three- Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the  
    3 
  59261503_5 

first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below). The Calculation Agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series X Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series X Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on March 5 and September 5 of each year, beginning on March 5, 2015, and (y) for the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each March 5, June 5, September 5 and December 5, beginning on December 5, 2024;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless, for the Fixed Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar year or, for the Floating Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar month, then in each such case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day) (i) on or prior to September 5, 2024, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and (ii) after September 5, 2024, with dividends accruing to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series X Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series X Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 6.250%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding, September 5, 2024 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) thereafter, Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 3.705%, for each Dividend Period from, and including, September 5, 2024 (the    Floating Rate Period   ). The record date for payment of dividends on the Series X Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month preceding the month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date. For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series X Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series X Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series X Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be  
    4 
  59261503_5 

declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series X Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series X Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series X Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series X Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series X Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series X Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series X Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series X Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
    5 
  59261503_5 

(b)        Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series X Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series X Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series X Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series X Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption  . 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series X Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after September 5, 2024, or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series X Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series X Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series X Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series X Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of  
    6 
  59261503_5 

the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series X Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series X Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series X Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series X Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series X Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine to be fair and equitable. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series X Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)        General.   The holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law. 
    
  (b)        Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i)        Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series X Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series X Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized  
    7 
  59261503_5 

preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series X Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series X Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii)        Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series X Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series X Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series X Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series X Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series X Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii)        Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By- laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series X Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series X Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series X Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the  
    8 
  59261503_5 

equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series X Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series X Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least of the voting power of the Series X Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series X Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock. Further, so long as any shares of the Series X Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least of the shares of the Series X Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series X Preferred Stock. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series X Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series X Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series X Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series X Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)        No Vote if Shares Redeemed.   No vote or consent of the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series X Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series X Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation 
    9 
  59261503_5 

and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By- laws of the Corporation and to applicable law. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series X Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series X Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series X Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.        Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series X Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.        Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series X Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series X Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    10 
  59261503_5 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 5  th   day of September, 2014. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel 

59261503_5 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  6.625% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES W  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the New Preferred Stock Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on September 2, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated May 7, 2014 and July 24, 2014, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.        Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W  (the    Series W Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series W Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series W Preferred Stock. Series W Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.        Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be 46,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series W Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series W Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series W Preferred Stock: 

59260950_5 

Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina. 
    
     Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series W Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series W Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series W Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series W Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series W Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series W Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to- Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V, (m) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (n) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (o) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (p) Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (q) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, (r) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X and (s) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series W Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series W Preferred Stock as to the payment of  
    2 
  59260950_5 

dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series W Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series W Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on March 9, June 9, September 9 and December 9 of each year, beginning on December 9, 2014;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day), without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series W Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series W Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to 6.625%. The record date for payment of dividends on the Series W Preferred Stock shall be the fifteenth day of the calendar month preceding the month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date. The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative. To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series W Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series W Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series W Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the  
    3 
  59260950_5 

Series W Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series W Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted. Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series W Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series W Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series W Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding. For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series W Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock. No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series W Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series W Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)        Partial Payment  . If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series W Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series W Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series W Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series W Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the  
    4 
  59260950_5 

holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption  . 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series W Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after September 9, 2019 or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below. The redemption price for shares of Series W Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends. Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation. Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption. Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series W Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series W Preferred Stock. Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series W Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series W Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series W Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series W Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series W Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series W Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot. Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have  
    5 
  59260950_5 

full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series W Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
  (d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)        General.   The holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law. 
    
  (b)        Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i)        Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series W Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series W Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series W Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series W Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on  
    6 
  59260950_5 

parity with Series W Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
  (ii)        Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series W Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series W Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein. At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series W Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series W Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series W Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii)        Notice of Special Meeting.   Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By- laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series W Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series W Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series W Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series W Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series W Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly. Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series W Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to  
    7 
  59260950_5 

vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least of the voting power of the Series W Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series W Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock. Further, so long as any shares of the Series W Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least of the shares of the Series W Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series W Preferred Stock. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series W Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series W Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series W Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series W Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)        No Vote if Shares Redeemed.   No vote or consent of the holders of the Series W Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series W Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series W Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By- laws of the Corporation and to applicable law. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  . The holders of Series W Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series W Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
    8 
  59260950_5 

Section 9.        Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series W Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.        Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series W Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.        Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series W Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series W Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    9 
  59260950_5 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 9  th   day of September, 2014. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ ROSS E. JEFFRIES, JR. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary 

59260950_5 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF 
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE 
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Z  
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the New Preferred Stock Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on October 20, 2014, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  R  ESOLVED  ,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated May 7, 2014 and July 24, 2014, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.        Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z  (the    Series Z Preferred Stock   ). Each share of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series Z Preferred Stock.  Series Z Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 2.        Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be 56,000. That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series Z Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized. The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series Z Preferred Stock. 
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series Z Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means, for the Fixed Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive  
      
  61040266_3 

order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina; and, for the Floating Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina and is a London Banking Day. 
    
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series Z Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below). 
    
     Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series Z Preferred Stock is outstanding. 
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.  
    
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns. 
    
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof. 
    
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series Z Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England. 
    
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to- Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual  
    2 
  61040266_3 

Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non- Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V, (m) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W, (n) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X, (o) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (p) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (q) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (r) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (s) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, and (t) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series Z Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits). 
    
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series Z Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
    
     Series Z Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof. 
    
   Three-Month LIBOR    means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination Date   ).  If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01,  Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation) to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three- Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as defined below). The Calculation Agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal  
    3 
  61040266_3 

offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series Z Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.        Dividends. 
    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series Z Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on April 23 and October 23 of each year, beginning on April 23, 2015, and (y) for the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each January 23, April 23, July 23 and October 23, beginning on January 23, 2025;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless, for the Fixed Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar year or, for the Floating Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar month, then in each such case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day) (i) on or prior to October 23, 2024, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and (ii) after October 23, 2024, with dividends accruing to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ). The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series Z Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series Z Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 6.500%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding, October 23, 2024 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) thereafter, Three- Month LIBOR plus a spread of 4.174%, for each Dividend Period from, and including, October 23, 2024 (the    Floating Rate Period   ). The record date for payment of dividends on the Series Z Preferred Stock shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date.  For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series Z Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series Z Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation. 
    
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series Z Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or  
    4 
  61040266_3 

made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series Z Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Z Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted.  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series Z Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Z Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside. To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series Z Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding.  For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series Z Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend. 
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights. 
    
  (a)        Liquidation  . In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series Z Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation. The holders of Series Z Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5. 
    
  (b)        Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series Z Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series Z Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series Z Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 
    
  (c)        Residual Distributions  . If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all  
    5 
  61040266_3 

holders of Series Z Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences. 
    
  (d)        Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  . For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 6.        Redemption  . 
    
  (a)        Optional Redemption  . The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after October 23, 2024, or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series Z Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)        Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series Z Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series Z Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series Z Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series Z Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC. 
    
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series Z Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series Z Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series Z Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series Z Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time. 
    
    6 
  61040266_3 

(d)        Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest. The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest. Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest. 
    
  Section 7.        Voting Rights  . 
    
  (a)        General.   The holders of Series Z Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law. 
    
  (b)        Special Voting Right. 
    
  (i)        Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series Z Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Z Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series Z Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series Z Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Z Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .  
    
    7 
  61040266_3 

(ii)        Election.   The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series Z Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series Z Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series Z Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series Z Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Z Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter. 
    
  (iii)        Notice of Special Meeting.    Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By- laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series Z Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series Z Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.   Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series Z Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Z Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series Z Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods). The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b). 
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  . So long as any shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the voting power of the Series Z Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock  
    8 
  61040266_3 

entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series Z Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock.  Further, so long as any shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series Z Preferred Stock. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series Z Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series Z Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series Z Preferred Stock. 
    
  (d)        No Vote if Shares Redeemed.    No vote or consent of the holders of the Series Z Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series Z Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series Z Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By- laws of the Corporation and to applicable law. 
    
  Section 8.        Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series Z Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series Z Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation. 
    
  Section 9.        Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series Z Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
    9 
  61040266_3 

Section 10.        Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series Z Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent. 
    
  Section 11.        Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series Z Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series. 
    
  Section 12.        No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series Z Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 
    10 
  61040266_3 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 23rd day of October, 2014. 
    
                 BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Corporate Secretary and Deputy General Counsel 

61040266_3 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF  
  6.500% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES Y 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the New Preferred Stock Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on January 20, 2015, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
    Resolved,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 12, 2015, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.        Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Y  (the    Series Y Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series Y Preferred Stock.  Series Y Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 2.        Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be 44,000.  That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series Y Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.        Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series Y Preferred Stock: 
    
     Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina.  

Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series Y Preferred Stock is outstanding.  
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series Y Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V, (m) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W, (n) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X, (o) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z, (p) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (q) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (r) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (s) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (t) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, and (u) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series Y Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series Y Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     Series Y Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  

Section 4.         Dividends.    
  (a)        Rate  . Holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series Y Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on January 27, April 27, July 27 and October 27 of each year, beginning on April 27, 2015;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day), without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series Y Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series Y Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to 6.500%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series Y Preferred Stock shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
  (b)        Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series Y Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  
  (c)        Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series Y Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series Y Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Y Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted.  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on 
  any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series Y Preferred Stock 

for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series Y Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding.  For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series Y Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.  
    
  Section 5.        Liquidation Rights.    
    
  (a)        Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series Y Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation.  The holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
    
  (b)         Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series Y Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)         Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
    
  (d)         Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  

Section 6.         Redemption  . 
    
  (a)         Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after January 27, 2020 or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series Y Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
  (b)         Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series Y Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series Y Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
  (c)        Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series Y Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series Y Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series Y Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series Y Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
  (d)         Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so 

deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.  
  Section 7.         Voting Rights  .  
    
  (a)        General.    The holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law.  
    
  (b)        Special Voting Right.  
  (i)        Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series Y Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Y Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series Y Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Y Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .   
  (ii)        Election.    The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series Y Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series Y Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Y Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  

(iii)         Notice of Special Meeting.    Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series Y Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.  
    
  (iv)        Termination; Removal.    Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series Y Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series Y Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods).  The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b).  
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the voting power of the Series Y Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series Y Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock.  Further, so long as any shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series Y Preferred Stock.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock as to dividends 

and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series Y Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series Y Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series Y Preferred Stock.  
    
  (d)        No Vote if Shares Redeemed.    No vote or consent of the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series Y Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)        Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series Y Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Corporation and to applicable law.   
    
  Section 8.         Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series Y Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series Y Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 9.         Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series Y Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.         Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series Y Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
    
  Section 11.        Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series Y Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.  
    
  Section 12.         No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series Y Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 26th day of January, 2015. 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ ROSS E. JEFFRIES, JR. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Deputy General Counsel 
        
    and Corporate Secretary 

61040266_3 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS 
  OF  
  FIXED-TO-FLOATING RATE  
  NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES AA 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the New Preferred Stock Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on March 12, 2015, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 12, 2015, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.    Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series AA  (the    Series AA Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series AA Preferred Stock.  Series AA Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 2.    Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be 76,000.  That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series AA Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series AA Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.    Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series AA Preferred Stock: 

Business Day    means, for the Fixed Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina; and, for the Floating Rate Period, each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina and is a London Banking Day.  
     Calculation Agent    shall mean The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., or such other bank or entity as may be appointed by the Corporation to act as calculation agent for the Series AA Preferred Stock during the Floating Rate Period (as defined below).   
     Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series AA Preferred Stock is outstanding.  
    
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Determination Date    shall have the meaning set forth below in the definition of  Three-Month LIBOR.   
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Fixed Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Floating Rate Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series AA Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     London Banking Day    means any day on which commercial banks are open for general business (including dealings in deposits in U.S. dollars) in London, England.  
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non- 

Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V, (m) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W, (n) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X, (o) 6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Y, (p) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z, (q) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (r) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (s) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (t) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (u) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, and (v) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series AA Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01     means the display page so designated on Reuters (or any other page as may replace that page on that service, or any other service as may be nominated as the information vendor, for the purpose of displaying London interbank offered rates for U.S. dollar deposits). 
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series AA Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     Series AA Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  
   Three-Month LIBOR        means, with respect to any Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the offered rate (expressed as a percentage   per annum  ) for deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period that appears on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01  as of 11:00 a.m. (London time) on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period (the    Dividend Determination     Date   ).  If such rate does not appear on Reuters Screen Page  LIBOR01,  Three-Month LIBOR will be determined on the basis of the rates at which deposits in U.S. dollars for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000 are offered to prime banks in the London interbank market by four major banks in the London interbank market selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time on the second London Banking Day immediately preceding the first day of that Dividend Period. The Calculation Agent will request the principal London office of each of such banks to provide a quotation of its rate. If at least two such quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of such quotations. If fewer than two quotations are provided, Three-Month LIBOR with respect to that Dividend Period will be the arithmetic mean (rounded upward if necessary to the nearest .00001 of 1%) of the rates quoted by three major banks in New York City selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation), at approximately 11:00 a.m., New York City time, on the first day of that Dividend Period for loans in U.S. dollars to leading European banks for a three-month period commencing on the first day of that Dividend Period and in a principal amount of not less than $1,000,000.  However, if fewer than three banks selected by the Calculation Agent (in consultation with the Corporation) to provide quotations are quoting as described above, Three-Month LIBOR for that Dividend Period will be the same as Three-Month LIBOR as determined for the previous Dividend Period, or in the case of the first Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period, the most recent rate that could have been determined in accordance with the first sentence of this paragraph had the dividend rate been a floating rate during the Fixed Rate Period (as  

defined below).  The Calculation Agent s establishment of Three-Month LIBOR and calculation of the amount of dividends for each Dividend Period in the Floating Rate Period will be on file at the principal offices of the Corporation, will be made available to any holder of Series AA Preferred Stock upon request and will be final and binding in the absence of manifest error. 
    
  Section 4.     Dividends.    
    
  (a)    Rate  . Holders of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series AA Preferred Stock, and no more, payable (x) for the Fixed Rate Period, semi-annually in arrears on March 17 and September 17 of each year, beginning on September 17, 2015, and (y) for the Floating Rate Period, quarterly in arrears on each March 17, June 17, September 17 and December 17, beginning on June 17, 2025;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless, for the Fixed Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar year or, for the Floating Rate Period, that day falls in the next calendar month, then in each such case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day) (i) on or prior to March 17, 2025, without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay, and (ii) after March 17, 2025, with dividends accruing to the actual payment date (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series AA Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series AA Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to (1) 6.100%, for each Dividend Period from the issue date to, but excluding, March 17, 2025 (the    Fixed Rate Period   ), and (2) thereafter, Three-Month LIBOR plus a spread of 3.898%, for each Dividend Period from, and including, March 17, 2025 (the    Floating Rate Period   ).  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series AA Preferred Stock shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date.  For the Fixed Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. For the Floating Rate Period, the amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year and the actual number of days elapsed in a Dividend Period. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)    Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series AA Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series AA Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  
    
  (c)    Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series AA Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a  

reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series AA Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series AA Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted.  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any shares of Series AA Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series AA Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series AA Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding.  For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series AA Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.   
  Section 5.    Liquidation Rights.    
     (a)    Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series AA Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation.  The holders of Series AA Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.   
  (b)     Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series AA Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series AA Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series AA Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock. 

(c)     Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series AA Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
    
  (d)     Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 6.     Redemption  . 
    
  (a)     Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after March 17, 2025, or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series AA Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)     Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series AA Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series AA Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series AA Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series AA Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)    Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series AA Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series AA Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series AA Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot.  Subject to the  

provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series AA Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
    
  (d)     Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.        
  Section 7.     Voting Rights  .  
    
  (a)    General.    The holders of Series AA Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law.  
    
  (b)    Special Voting Right.  
    
  (i)    Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series AA Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series AA Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least three or more semi-annual or six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), as applicable, the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series AA Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series AA Preferred Stock and any other  

class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series AA Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .   
    
  (ii)    Election.    The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series AA Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series AA Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series AA Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series AA Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series AA Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
    
  (iii)     Notice of Special Meeting.    Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series AA Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv).  In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series AA Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.  
    
  (iv)     Termination; Removal.    Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series AA Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series AA Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least two semi-annual or four quarterly Dividend Periods, as applicable, then the right of the holders of Series AA Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods).  The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b).  

(c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the voting power of the Series AA Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series AA Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock.  Further, so long as any shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 % of the shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series AA Preferred Stock.  
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series AA Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series AA Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series AA Preferred Stock.  
    
  (d)    No Vote if Shares Redeemed.    No vote or consent of the holders of the Series AA Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series AA Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)    Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series AA Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Corporation and to applicable law.   
    
  Section 8.     Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series AA Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series AA Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 9.     Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the  

Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series AA Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock.  
    
  Section 10.     Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series AA Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  
    
  Section 11.    Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series AA Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.  
    
  Section 12.     No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series AA Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 17   th    day of March, 2015. 
    
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ ROSS E. JEFFRIES, JR. 
      Name: 
    Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 
      Title: 
    Deputy General Counsel 
        
    and Corporate Secretary 

CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS  
  OF  
  6.200% NON-CUMULATIVE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES CC 
  OF 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
    
  Bank of America Corporation, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware (the    Corporation   ), hereby certifies that, pursuant to authority conferred upon the Board of Directors of the Corporation (the    Board of Directors   ) by the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, which authorize the issuance of not more than 100,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, and pursuant to authority conferred upon the New Preferred Stock Committee of the Board of Directors (the    Committee   ) in accordance with Section 141(c) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the    General Corporation Law   ), the following resolutions were duly adopted by the Committee pursuant to the written consent of the Committee duly adopted on January 21, 2016, in accordance with Section 141(f) of the General Corporation Law: 
    
  RESOLVED,   that, pursuant to the authority vested in the Committee and in accordance with the resolutions of the Board of Directors dated January 12, 2015, the provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the By-laws of the Corporation, and applicable law, a series of Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation be, and hereby is, created, and that the designation and number of shares of such series, and the voting and other powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other rights, and the qualifications, limitations and restrictions thereof, of the shares of such series, are as follows: 
    
  Section 1.    Designation  . 
    
  The designation of the series of preferred stock shall be  6.200% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series CC  (the    Series CC Preferred Stock   ).  Each share of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be identical in all respects to every other share of Series CC Preferred Stock.  Series CC Preferred Stock will rank equally with Parity Stock, if any, will rank senior to Junior Stock and will rank junior to Senior Stock, if any, with respect to the payment of dividends and the distribution of assets in the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 2.    Number of Shares  . 
    
  The number of authorized shares of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be 44,000.  That number from time to time may be increased (but not in excess of the total number of authorized shares of preferred stock) or decreased (but not below the number of shares of Series CC Preferred Stock then outstanding) by further resolution duly adopted by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors and by the filing of a certificate pursuant to the provisions of the General Corporation Law stating that such increase or decrease, as the case may be, has been so authorized.  The Corporation shall have the authority to issue fractional shares of Series CC Preferred Stock.  
    
  Section 3.    Definitions  . 
    
  As used herein with respect to Series CC Preferred Stock: 

Business Day    means each Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday or Friday on which banking institutions are not authorized or obligated by law, regulation or executive order to close in New York, New York or in Charlotte, North Carolina.  
      Capital Treatment Event    means the good faith determination by the Corporation that, as a result of any: (i) amendment to, clarification of, or change in, the laws or regulations of the United States or any political subdivision of or in the United States that is enacted or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock; (ii) proposed change in those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock; or (iii) official administrative decision or judicial decision or administrative action or other official pronouncement interpreting or applying those laws or regulations that is announced or becomes effective after the initial issuance of any shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock, there is more than an insubstantial risk that the Corporation shall not be entitled to treat an amount equal to the full liquidation preference of all shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock then outstanding as  additional Tier 1 capital  (or its equivalent) for purposes of the capital adequacy guidelines or regulations of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System or other appropriate federal banking agency, as then in effect and applicable, for as long as any share of the Series CC Preferred Stock is outstanding.  
     Depositary Company    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6(d) hereof.  
     Dividend Payment Date    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     Dividend Period    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4(a) hereof.  
     DTC    means The Depository Trust Company, together with its successors and assigns.  
     Junior Stock    means the Corporation s common stock and any other class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized over which Series CC Preferred Stock has preference or priority in the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     Parity Stock    means the Corporation s (a) 7% Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, Series B, (b) 6.204% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series D, (c) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series E, (d) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series F, (e) Adjustable Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series G, (f) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series I, (g) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series K, (h) 7.25% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock, Series L, (i) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series M, (j) 6% Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series T, (k) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series U, (l) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series V, (m) 6.625% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series W, (n) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series X, (o) 6.500% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Y, (p) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series Z, (q) Fixed-to-Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series AA, (r) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 1, (s) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 2, (t) 6.375% Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 3, (u) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 4, (v) Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series 5, and (w) any other class or series of stock of the Corporation hereafter authorized that ranks on a par with the Series CC Preferred Stock in the payment of dividends and in the distribution of assets on any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation. 
   Senior Stock    means any class or series of stock of the Corporation now existing or hereafter authorized which has preference or priority over the Series CC Preferred Stock as to the payment of dividends or in the distribution of assets on any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation.  
     Series CC Preferred Stock    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1 hereof.  

Section 4.     Dividends.    
    
  (a)    Rate  . Holders of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be entitled to receive, when, as and if declared by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, but only out of funds legally available for the payment of dividends, non-cumulative cash dividends based on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share of Series CC Preferred Stock, and no more, payable quarterly in arrears on January 29, April 29, July 29 and October 29 of each year, beginning on April 29, 2016;   provided  ,   however  , if any such day is not a Business Day, then payment of any dividend otherwise payable on that date will be made on the next succeeding day that is a Business Day (unless that day falls in the next calendar year, in which case payment of such dividend will occur on the immediately preceding Business Day), without any interest or other payment in respect of such delay (each such day on which dividends are payable a    Dividend Payment Date   ).  The period from, and including, the date of issuance of the Series CC Preferred Stock or any Dividend Payment Date to, but excluding, the next Dividend Payment Date is a    Dividend Period.    Dividends on each share of Series CC Preferred Stock will accrue on the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share at a rate   per annum   equal to 6.200%.  The record date for payment of dividends on the Series CC Preferred Stock shall be the first day of the calendar month in which the Dividend Payment Date falls or such other record date fixed by the Board of Directors or a duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors that is not more than 60 days nor less than 10 days prior to such Dividend Payment Date.  The amount of dividends payable shall be computed on the basis of a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months. Dollar amounts resulting from that calculation shall be rounded to the nearest cent, with one-half cent being rounded upward. 
    
  (b)    Non-Cumulative Dividends  .  Dividends on shares of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be non-cumulative.  To the extent that any dividends on the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock with respect to any Dividend Period are not declared and paid, in full or otherwise, on the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period, then such unpaid dividends shall not cumulate and shall cease to accrue and be payable, and the Corporation shall have no obligation to pay, and the holders of Series CC Preferred Stock shall have no right to receive, dividends accrued for such Dividend Period on or after the Dividend Payment Date for such Dividend Period or interest with respect to such dividends, whether or not dividends are declared for any subsequent Dividend Period with respect to Series CC Preferred Stock, Parity Stock, Junior Stock or any other class or series of authorized preferred stock of the Corporation.  
    
  (c)    Priority of Dividends  .  So long as any share of Series CC Preferred Stock remains outstanding, (i) no dividend shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment and no distribution shall be declared or made or set aside for payment on any Junior Stock, other than a dividend payable solely in shares of Junior Stock, (ii) no shares of Junior Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation, directly or indirectly (other than as a result of a reclassification of Junior Stock for or into other Junior Stock, or the exchange or conversion of one share of Junior Stock for or into another share of Junior Stock, and other than through the use of the proceeds of a substantially contemporaneous sale of other shares of Junior Stock), nor shall any monies be paid to or made available for a sinking fund for the redemption of any such Junior Stock by the Corporation and (iii) no shares of Parity Stock shall be repurchased, redeemed or otherwise acquired for consideration by the Corporation otherwise than pursuant to   pro rata   offers to purchase all, or a   pro rata   portion, of the Series CC Preferred Stock and such Parity Stock except by conversion into or exchange for Junior Stock, in each case, unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series CC Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  The foregoing limitations do not apply to purchases or acquisitions of the Corporation s Junior Stock pursuant to any employee or director incentive or benefit plan or arrangement (including any employment, severance or consulting agreement) of the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation heretofore or hereafter adopted.  Subject to the succeeding sentence, for so long as any  

shares of Series CC Preferred Stock remain outstanding, no dividends shall be declared or paid or set aside for payment on any Parity Stock for any period unless full dividends on all outstanding shares of Series CC Preferred Stock for the immediately preceding Dividend Period have been paid in full or declared and a sum sufficient for the payment thereof set aside.  To the extent the Corporation declares dividends on the Series CC Preferred Stock and on any Parity Stock but cannot make full payment of such declared dividends, the Corporation will allocate the dividend payments on a   pro rata   basis among the holders of the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock and the holders of any Parity Stock then outstanding.  For purposes of calculating the   pro rata   allocation of partial dividend payments, the Corporation will allocate dividend payments based on the ratio between the then-current dividend payments due on the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock and the aggregate of the current and accrued dividends due on the outstanding Parity Stock.  No interest will be payable in respect of any dividend payment on shares of Series CC Preferred Stock that may be in arrears. Subject to the foregoing, and not otherwise, such dividends (payable in cash, stock or otherwise) as may be determined by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may be declared and paid on any Junior Stock from time to time out of any funds legally available therefor, and the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to participate in any such dividend.  
    
  Section 5.    Liquidation Rights.    
    
  (a)    Liquidation  .  In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, holders of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be entitled, out of assets legally available for distribution to stockholders of the Corporation, before any distribution or payment out of the assets of the Corporation may be made to or set aside for the holders of any Junior Stock and subject to the rights of the holders of any class or series of securities ranking senior to or on parity with Series CC Preferred Stock upon liquidation and the rights of the Corporation s depositors and other creditors, to receive in full a liquidating distribution in the amount of the liquidation preference of $25,000 per share, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends, to the date of liquidation.  The holders of Series CC Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to any further payments in the event of any such voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation other than what is expressly provided for in this Section 5.  
    
  (b)     Partial Payment  .  If the assets of the Corporation are not sufficient to pay in full the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid to all holders of Series CC Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the amounts paid to the holders of Series CC Preferred Stock and to the holders of all Parity Stock shall be   pro rata   in accordance with the respective aggregate liquidation preferences, plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid, of Series CC Preferred Stock and all such Parity Stock.  
    
  (c)     Residual Distributions  .  If the liquidation preference plus any dividends which have been declared but not yet paid has been paid in full to all holders of Series CC Preferred Stock and all holders of any Parity Stock, the holders of Junior Stock shall be entitled to receive all remaining assets of the Corporation according to their respective rights and preferences.  
    
  (d)     Merger, Consolidation and Sale of Assets Not Liquidation  .  For purposes of this Section 5, the sale, conveyance, exchange or transfer (for cash, shares of stock, securities or other consideration) of all or substantially all of the property and assets of the Corporation shall not be deemed a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation, nor shall the merger, consolidation or any other business combination transaction of the Corporation into or with any other corporation or person or the merger, consolidation or any other business combination  

transaction of any other corporation or person into or with the Corporation be deemed to be a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, liquidation or winding up of the affairs of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 6.     Redemption  . 
    
  (a)     Optional Redemption  .  The Corporation, at the option of its Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, may redeem out of funds legally available therefor, (i) in whole or in part, the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, at any time on or after January 29, 2021 or (ii) in whole but not in part, at any time within 90 days after a Capital Treatment Event, in each case upon notice given as provided in Section 6(b) below.  The redemption price for shares of Series CC Preferred Stock redeemed pursuant to (i) or (ii) of the preceding sentence shall be $25,000 per share plus (except as otherwise provided below) dividends that have accrued but have not been paid for the then-current Dividend Period to but excluding the redemption date, without accumulation of any undeclared dividends.  Any declared but unpaid dividends payable on a redemption date that occurs subsequent to the record date for a dividend period shall not be paid to the holder entitled to receive the redemption price on the redemption date, but rather shall be paid to the holder of record of the redeemed shares on such record date relating to the Dividend Payment Date as provided in Section 4 above. 
    
  (b)     Notice of Redemption  .  Notice of every redemption of shares of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the holders of record of such shares to be redeemed at their respective last addresses appearing on the stock register of the Corporation.  Such mailing shall be at least 30 days and not more than 60 days before the date fixed for redemption.  Any notice mailed as provided in this Section 6(b) shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the holder receives such notice, but failure duly to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice or in the mailing thereof, to any holder of shares of Series CC Preferred Stock designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series CC Preferred Stock.  Each notice shall state (i) the redemption date; (ii) the number of shares of Series CC Preferred Stock to be redeemed and, if fewer than all the shares held by such holder are to be redeemed, the number of such shares to be redeemed from such holder; (iii) the redemption price; (iv) the place or places where the certificates for such shares are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price; and (v) that dividends on the shares to be redeemed will cease to accrue on the redemption date. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Series CC Preferred Stock is held in book-entry form through DTC, the Corporation may give such notice in any manner permitted by DTC.  
    
  (c)    Partial Redemption  .  In case of any redemption of only part of the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock at the time outstanding, the shares of Series CC Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be selected either   pro rata   from the holders of record of Series CC Preferred Stock in proportion to the number of Series CC Preferred Stock held by such holders or by lot.  Subject to the provisions of this Section 6, the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors shall have full power and authority to prescribe the terms and conditions upon which shares of Series CC Preferred Stock shall be redeemed from time to time.  
    
  (d)     Effectiveness of Redemption  .  If notice of redemption has been duly given and if on or before the redemption date specified in the notice all funds necessary for the redemption have been set aside by the Corporation, separate and apart from its other funds, in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, so as to be and continue to be available therefor, or deposited by the Corporation with a bank or trust company selected by the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors (the    Depositary Company   ) in trust for the   pro rata   benefit of the holders of the shares called for redemption, then, notwithstanding that any certificate for  

any share so called for redemption has not been surrendered for cancellation, on and after the redemption date all shares so called for redemption shall cease to be outstanding, all dividends with respect to such shares shall cease to accrue, and all rights with respect to such shares shall forthwith on such redemption date cease and terminate, except only the right of the holders thereof to receive the amount payable on such redemption from such bank or trust company at any time after the redemption date from the funds so deposited, without interest.  The Corporation shall be entitled to receive, from time to time, from the Depositary Company any interest accrued on such funds, and the holders of any shares called for redemption shall have no claim to any such interest.  Any funds so deposited and unclaimed at the end of three years from the redemption date shall, to the extent permitted by law, be released or repaid to the Corporation, and in the event of such repayment to the Corporation, the holders of record of the shares so called for redemption shall be deemed to be unsecured creditors of the Corporation for an amount equivalent to the amount deposited as stated above for the redemption of such shares and so repaid to the Corporation, but shall in no event be entitled to any interest.  
    
  Section 7.     Voting Rights  .  
    
  (a)    General.    The holders of Series CC Preferred Stock shall not be entitled to vote on any matter except as set forth in paragraphs 7(b) and 7(c) below or as required by law.  
    
  (b)    Special Voting Right.  
    
  (i)    Voting Right.    If and whenever dividends on the Series CC Preferred Stock or any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series CC Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, and upon which voting rights equivalent to those granted by this Section 7(b)(i) have been conferred and are exercisable, have not been paid in an aggregate amount equal to, as to any class or series, the equivalent of at least six or more quarterly Dividend Periods (whether consecutive or not), the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall be increased by two, and the holders of the Series CC Preferred Stock (together with holders of any class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist), shall have the right, voting separately as a single class without regard to series, to the exclusion of the holders of common stock, to elect two directors of the Corporation to fill such newly created directorships (and to fill any vacancies in the terms of such directorships), provided that the election of such directors must not cause the Corporation to violate the corporate governance requirements of the New York Stock Exchange (or other exchange on which the Corporation s securities may be listed) that listed companies must have a majority of independent directors and further provided that the Board of Directors shall at no time include more than two such directors. Each such director elected by the holders of shares of Series CC Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series CC Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends having equivalent voting rights is a    Preferred Director  .   
    
  (ii)    Election.    The election of the Preferred Directors will take place at any annual meeting of stockholders or any special meeting of the holders of Series CC Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation s stock that ranks on parity with Series CC Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid, called as provided herein.  At any time after the special voting power has vested pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) above, the secretary of the Corporation may, and upon the written request of any holder of Series CC Preferred Stock (addressed to the secretary at the Corporation s principal office) must (unless such request is received less than 90 days before  

the date fixed for the next annual or special meeting of the stockholders, in which event such election shall be held at such next annual or special meeting of stockholders), call a special meeting of the holders of Series CC Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series CC Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends and having equivalent voting rights and for which dividends have not been paid for the election of the two directors to be elected by them as provided in Section 7(b)(iii) below. The Preferred Directors shall each be entitled to one vote per director on any matter.  
    
  (iii)     Notice of Special Meeting.    Notice for a special meeting to elect the Preferred Directors will be given in a similar manner to that provided in the Corporation s By-laws for a special meeting of the stockholders. If the secretary of the Corporation does not call a special meeting within 20 days after receipt of any such request, then any holder of Series CC Preferred Stock may (at the Corporation s expense) call such meeting, upon notice as provided in this Section 7(b)(iii), and for that purpose will have access to the stock register of the Corporation. The Preferred Directors elected at any such special meeting will hold office until the next annual meeting of the Corporation s stockholders unless they have been previously terminated or removed pursuant to Section 7(b)(iv). In case any vacancy in the office of a Preferred Director occurs (other than prior to the initial election of the Preferred Directors), the vacancy may be filled by the written consent of the Preferred Director remaining in office, or if none remains in office, by the vote of the holders of the Series CC Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) to serve until the next annual meeting of the stockholders.  
    
  (iv)    Termination; Removal.    Whenever full dividends have been paid regularly on the Series CC Preferred Stock and any other class or series of preferred stock that ranks on parity with Series CC Preferred Stock as to payment of dividends, if any, for the equivalent of at least four quarterly Dividend Periods, then the right of the holders of Series CC Preferred Stock to elect the Preferred Directors will cease (but subject always to the same provisions for the vesting of the special voting rights in the case of any similar non-payment of dividends in respect of future Dividend Periods).  The terms of office of the Preferred Directors will immediately terminate, and the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors will be reduced accordingly.  Any Preferred Director may be removed at any time without cause by the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock (together with holders of any other class of the Corporation s authorized preferred stock having equivalent voting rights, whether or not the holders of such preferred stock would be entitled to vote for the election of directors if such default in dividends did not exist) when they have the voting rights described in this Section 7(b).  
    
  (c)        Other Voting Rights  .  So long as any shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote or consent of the holders of at least 66 % of the voting power of the Series CC Preferred Stock and the holders of any other Parity Stock entitled to vote thereon, voting together as a single class, given in person or by proxy, either in writing without a meeting or at any meeting called for the purpose, authorize, create or issue any capital stock ranking senior to the Series CC Preferred Stock as to dividends or the distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, or reclassify any authorized capital stock into any such shares of such capital stock or issue any obligation or security convertible into or evidencing the right to purchase any such shares of capital stock.  Further, so long as any shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock remain outstanding, the Corporation shall not, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at least 66 % of the  

shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock, amend, alter or repeal any provision of this Certificate of Designations or the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation, including by merger, consolidation or otherwise, so as to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series CC Preferred Stock.  
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) any increase in the amount of authorized common stock or authorized preferred stock, or any increase or decrease in the number of shares of any series of preferred stock, or the authorization, creation and issuance of other classes or series of capital stock, in each case ranking on a parity with or junior to the shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock as to dividends and distribution of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, shall not be deemed to adversely affect such powers, preferences or special rights and (ii) a merger or consolidation of the Corporation with or into another entity in which the shares of the Series CC Preferred Stock (A) remain outstanding or (B) are converted into or exchanged for preference securities of the surviving entity or any entity, directly or indirectly, controlling such surviving entity and such new preference securities have powers, preferences or special rights that are not materially less favorable than the Series CC Preferred Stock shall not be deemed to adversely affect the powers, preferences or special rights of the Series CC Preferred Stock.  
    
  (d)    No Vote if Shares Redeemed.    No vote or consent of the holders of the Series CC Preferred Stock shall be required pursuant to Section 7(b) or 7(c) if, at or prior to the time when the act with respect to such vote or consent would otherwise be required shall be effected, the Corporation shall have redeemed or shall have called for redemption all outstanding shares of Series CC Preferred Stock, with proper notice and sufficient funds having been set aside for such redemption, in each case pursuant to Section 6 above. 
    
  (e)    Procedures for Voting and Consents.    Other than as set forth in Section 7(b), the rules and procedures for calling and conducting any meeting of the holders of Series CC Preferred Stock (including, without limitation, the fixing of a record date in connection therewith), the solicitation and use of proxies at such meeting, the obtaining of written consents and any other aspect or matter with regard to such a meeting or such consents shall be governed by any rules the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may adopt from time to time, which rules and procedures shall conform to the requirements of the Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws of the Corporation and to applicable law.   
    
  Section 8.     Preemption and Conversion  .  The holders of Series CC Preferred Stock shall not have any rights of preemption or rights to convert such Series CC Preferred Stock into shares of any other class of capital stock of the Corporation.  
    
  Section 9.     Rank  .  Notwithstanding anything set forth in the Certificate of Incorporation or this Certificate of Designations to the contrary, the Board of Directors or any authorized committee of the Board of Directors, without the vote of the holders of the Series CC Preferred Stock, may authorize and issue additional shares of Junior Stock or Parity Stock. 
    
  Section 10.     Repurchase  .  Subject to the limitations imposed herein, the Corporation may purchase and sell Series CC Preferred Stock from time to time to such extent, in such manner, and upon such terms as the Board of Directors or any duly authorized committee of the Board of Directors may determine;   provided  ,   however  , that the Corporation shall not use any of its funds for any such purchase when there are reasonable grounds to believe that the Corporation is, or by such purchase would be, rendered insolvent.  

Section 11.    Unissued or Reacquired Shares  .  Shares of Series CC Preferred Stock not issued or which have been issued and converted, redeemed or otherwise purchased or acquired by the Corporation shall be restored to the status of authorized but unissued shares of preferred stock without designation as to series.  
    
  Section 12.     No Sinking Fund  .  Shares of Series CC Preferred Stock are not subject to the operation of a sinking fund.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , Bank of America Corporation has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on this 29th day of January, 2016. 

BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 

By: 
    /s/ Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 

Ross E. Jeffries, Jr. 

Deputy General Counsel and           Corporate Secretary 

</EX-3.A>

<EX-10.UU>
 3
 bac-1231201510xkex10uu.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.UU

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10(uu) 

GHR Global Mobility 

Tax Equalization Program United States 

Guidelines 
    
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 1 of 13 

Contents 
  Tax Equalization Program 
    
           1. 
    Introduction 
       
           1.1 
    Purpose of Program Guidelines 
       
           2. 
    What is Tax Equalization 
       
           2.1 
    Program Definition   Overview 
       
           3. 
    Responsibilities 
       
           3.1 
    Employee Responsibilities 
              3.2 
    Bank of America Responsibilities 
              3.3 
    Tax Provider Responsibilities 
       
           4. 
    Tax Treatment of Compensation 
       
           4.1 
    Overview - Estimated Hypothetical Tax 
              4.2 
    Income Subject to Final Hypothetical Tax 
              4.3 
    Standard Calculation for US Tax 
               4.5 
    Assignment Related Allowances 
              4.6 
    Sale of Personal Assets 
              4.7 
    Sale of Principal Residence 
               4.9 
    FICA Reconciliation 
              4.10 
    Penalties   Interest   Additional Fees 
              4.11 
    Repatriation / Localization and Tracking of Trailing Equalization Issues 
              4.12 
    Termination or Resignation While on Assignment 
              4.13 
    Withdrawal of Tax Equalization / Protection / Tax Services 
       
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 2 of 13 

1. 
    Introduction 
       
           1.1 
    Purpose of Program Guidelines 
       
  The purpose of these guidelines is to detail the tax equalization program applicable to employee transfers on equalized assignment terms with bank of America (hereinafter referred to as  the bank ). 
    
           2. 
    What is Tax Equalization? 
       
           2.1 
    Program Definition   Overview 
       
  The general intent of the bank is to ensure that while on a tax equalized assignment the personal tax obligations of the employees are consistent with the treatment they would have experienced had they remained in the Home Country. 
  The bank will pay the actual Home and Host Country tax liability of the employee subject to certain limitations related to the assignment. In exchange the employee will be required to pay the bank a hypothetical tax amount, which will, in effect, equal the Home Country tax liability as if the employee had not been sent on assignment. 
  This hypothetical tax amount will be deducted each payroll period and is referred to as the annual estimated hypothetical tax. As this amount represents an estimate, the final hypothetical tax calculation will be prepared by the bank s designated tax advisor. 
  This tax equalization program is subject to modification to reflect changes in actual Home and Host Country tax laws, as well as changes in the bank s program. Any questions regarding circumstances not covered by this program should be directed to the Global Mobility Tax Manager. 
    
           3. 
    Responsibilities 
       
           3.1 
    Employee Responsibilities 
       
  The employee is required to fulfill the following responsibilities: 

The financial affairs of the employee are to be arranged so they comply with applicable Home and Host Country income tax requirements 

All employee transfers must provide the bank s designated tax provider with a completed tax data organizer in a timely manner to ensure the required Home and Host Country income tax returns are prepared and filed on a timely basis. Failure to do so may result in penalties and interest for the employee 

The employee must provide the bank and/or the tax provider with proof of payment of taxes, other than through withholding (e.g., cancelled checks), in order to document that the reimbursed taxes have been paid, if requested 

The employee must provide the tax provider copies of prior years personal income tax returns, when requested 

Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 3 of 13 

The employee is to review and settle the tax equalization settlement calculation, as prepared by the designated tax advisor within 30 days unless the amount is being disputed. The employee will also reimburse the bank on the tax equalization calculation for any underpayment penalties and penalties/interest through the actual filing date of the returns where the amounts relate to a delay caused by the employee 

The employee must authorize the tax provider to release summary tax data to the bank for purposes of reviewing the tax equalization settlement calculation 

The employee is to provide timely notification to the bank in advance of any significant income events (e.g., sale of an asset, inheritance, exercise of stock options) in order to allow for appropriate consultation with the tax provider 

The employee must complete IRS required 7216 release form allowing independent tax provider to share personal tax information with their foreign member firms to allow for the preparation of any required Host Country returns 
       
  The bank reserves the right to stop or reduce certain allowances otherwise due to an employee who fails to comply with the responsibilities outlined within this program. 
  The employee, in all cases, will be made aware of this pending action in advance in order to rectify and/or resolve the non compliance issue and encourage cooperation and adherence to the tax equalization program. 
    
  In addition, the employee should comply with the repatriation and personal income sections of these guidelines which outline further responsibilities the individual may have in the Host Country and on completion of the assignment. 
    
           3.2 
    Bank of America Responsibilities 
       
  The bank has retained an independent tax provider to meet with the employee to discuss the tax implications of the assignment and provide guidance on the steps the employee may have to action to ensure compliance in the Home and Host Country. The bank will pay for the preparation of the Home and Host Country tax returns of the employee by its designated independent tax provider for the duration of the assignment. The bank will also pay for the preparation of post repatriation Home and Host tax returns where there is a trailing tax liability arising as a result of the assignment and/or equalization. 
    
  The bank will provide bank-related compensation data to the designated tax advisor where required. 
    
  The bank will arrange timely payments to the relevant tax authorities where required. 
    
  The bank will reimburse the employee on the tax equalization calculation for any underpayment penalties and late payment penalties/interest through the extended due date of returns to the extent the amounts relate to the foreign assignment allowances and /or delays caused by the bank. 
    
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 4 of 13 

3.3 
    Tax Provider Responsibilities 
       
  The bank has engaged a tax provider to provide tax return preparation services. In addition to assisting the employee in meeting their tax filing requirements, this service is also provided to ensure the tax returns of the employee are accurately prepared. In addition, these preparation services ensure each employee who is on assignment is in full compliance with local income and social tax laws, protecting the bank s right to do business in the Home and Host location by meeting its legal obligations. 
    
  The tax compliance and consulting services provided to an employee consist of the following: 

Preparing the required Home and/or Host location tax returns for the employee 

Informing the employee of their tax obligations 

Ensuring that the employees are in full compliance with local tax laws 

Handling inquiries from the Home or Host Country taxing authorities that relate to the assignment 

Determining the settlement amount between bank and the employee as a result of the assignment and hypothetical tax responsibilities 
       
  The tax provider will manage each personal tax matters of the employee in a confidential manner. However, summary tax data will be released to the bank through the tax equalization settlement calculation. 
    
  Any personal income tax planning, estate tax planning or use of another tax preparer will be the responsibility of the employee and the cost of such services will not be reimbursed by the bank. Any costs related to the amendment of the tax return at the personal request of the employees will be their responsibility. 
    
           4. 
    Tax Treatment of Compensation 
       
           4.1 
    Overview   Estimated Hypothetical Tax (Withholding) 
       
  The bank will estimate the annual Home Country tax of the employee and withhold that amount from the monthly pay of the employee as estimated annual hypothetical tax. 
    
  The estimated annual hypothetical tax to be calculated and withheld from the base salary of the employee and any supplemental compensation (e.g., bonuses, stock awards) is determined primarily based on an estimate of the stay-at-Home tax liability derived from bank-sourced income. This hypothetical tax amount will be calculated by bank or their tax provider, as appropriate. 

The hypothetical tax on base salary is calculated using a standard calculator with standard deductions and exemptions on base salary only 
       
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 5 of 13 

The hypothetical tax on cash incentives uses either the standard calculator or is based on statutory rates required by law 

The hypothetical tax on stock awards is based on the required statutory rates. For U.S. employee transfers, effective January 1, 2005, the supplemental wages in excess of $1,000,000 are subject to withholding at the highest marginal rate allowed by law as provided in the American Jobs Creation Act  of 2004 
       
  Personal income (i.e., non employment income) is not part of the estimated hypothetical tax calculation unless requested and agreed between the bank and the employee. The employee must ensure proper estimated tax payments are made on personal income to limit underpayment penalties. If on the final return any underpayment penalties exist as a result of the lack of proper estimated payments, the employee will be held liable for these penalties and interest. 
    
  At the time of the final tax equalization settlement, any additional amounts owing to or due from the employee as a result of over or under withholding of estimated hypothetical tax will be determined by the tax provider and settled at that time. 
    
           4.2 
    Income Subject to Final Hypothetical Tax 
       
  The bank has engaged the tax provider to determine the final hypothetical tax liability by preparation of the tax equalization settlement calculation. This will be the final stay at Home liability based on bank-sourced income as well as outside personal income and deductions. 
    
  The following are examples of items that are normally included: 

Base salary 

Incentives (bonus, commission payments) 

Bank-related stock awards and transactions 

Taxable portion of excess group term life insurance 

Qualified pretax deductions and expenses 

Interest income 

Dividend income 

Alimony 

Capital gain or loss 

Rental real estate, partnerships 

Spousal income 

Other elements* 
       
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 6 of 13 

* Other elements not listed above (e.g., additional types of personal investment income) may also be included in the final hypothetical tax calculation if they are stay- at-Home in nature. 
    
           4.3 
    Standard Calculation for US Hypothetical Tax 
       
  While on Assignment the employee is subject to: 

Hypothetical U.S. Federal tax on their income, as if they stayed at Home 
                
    Hypothetical State and local tax 
       
  Standard Calculation of Final Hypothetical U.S. Federal Tax: 
  The following items are examples of bank-sourced income which will be included in the final hypothetical tax calculation: 

Gross Base Salary 

Section 125 pre-tax benefit deductions 

Gross Incentive Compensation 

Severance and Redundancy Pay 

Restricted Shares, Units, Dividends and Stock Option Gains 

Group Term Life Insurance 

401(k) contributions/non-qualified plan contributions (allowed as a deduction) 
       
  Spousal Earnings 
    
  Spousal Earnings while the employee is on assignment will be handled as follows: 

If the spouse is tax equalized by another company, the spouse's earnings and deductions will not be included in the Hypothetical Tax calculations. The bank designated tax provider will prepare revised actual tax returns in order to determine which portion of the actual tax liability relates to the employees tax equalized assignment 

If the spouse is not tax equalized by another company, the spouse's earnings will be tax equalized as outside income to the extent these earnings are not excluded due to the election of the foreign earned income exclusion on the actual tax return.  Spousal earnings should also be subject to any Hypothetical Home Country State and Local tax to the extent the earnings are included on the actual state return.  Foreign tax credits that are available (after the foreign taxes for the foreign earned income exclusion claimed, if applicable) will be allowed to be utilized against the hypothetical tax imposed on the spouse s net foreign earnings 

If the spouse of the employee is also employed and tax equalized by the bank, the earnings of both will be treated in accordance with all other bank tax equalization positions 
       
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 7 of 13 

In the event that a joint tax return is filed in the Host Country, the tax provider will determine what portion, if any, of the spouse s share of Host Country tax liability has been funded by the bank, through estimated tax payments, withholdings, or balance due payments. In the event the bank has funded any of the Home or Host Country tax liability of the spouse of the employee, the employee will be required to reimburse the bank for the portion funded. 
    
  Itemized Deductions 
    
  The Hypothetical Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) will be used for determining itemized deductions and personal exemption phase outs. For hypothetical tax purposes, the employee is allowed the greater of: 
    
  The sum of: 
             
    hypothetical state tax 
                
    plus hypothetical housing (restricted to 80% of the amount) 
                
    plus actual state/city taxes funded by the employee for the year preceding the transfer year 
                
    plus actual mortgage interest and real estate taxes 
                
    plus investment interest expense 
                
    plus actual charitable contributions and other itemized deductions as allowed by US law during the tax year in question 
       
  OR 
             
    Standard Deduction 
       
  Alternative Minimum Tax 
    
  The hypothetical federal tax should include other taxes included on the actual Federal tax return, such as: tax on children s income, self-employment tax, and household employment tax.  Alternative Minimum Tax should be calculated on a hypothetical basis by using Hypothetical State   Local taxes adjustment as well as hypothetical medical and miscellaneous itemized deductions. 
    
  Limitation: The alternative minimum tax to be levied on the employee through the final hypothetical tax calculation will be limited to the actual alternative minimum tax calculated on the actual tax return. 
    
  Foreign Tax Credits 
    
  The employee is entitled to a foreign tax credit attributable to his/her outside income and/or paid by the spouse of the employee on employment income assuming they are not a tax equalized employee of Bank of America or other organizations shown on the actual tax return if paid by the employee. The passive foreign tax credit will not be recalculated based upon Hypothetical Income. For further details please see Section 4.8 on Foreign Tax Credits. 
    
  Other Credits 
    
  The employee will also be entitled to other tax credits (e.g., child care credit) equal to the amount allowed on the actual return. 
    
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 8 of 13 

Standard Calculation of the Hypothetical State and Local Tax Liability 

The employee will be tax equalized to a Home Country State and Local tax jurisdiction. The bank will deem the last resident state/locality of the employee to be the jurisdiction to which the                    individual is equalized. A resident calculation will be prepared for State and Local tax purposes including all income normally taxed on the State and Local tax returns 

The employee is hired in a Host location on expatriate terms from another employer will retain the same Home Country State established prior to the initial assignment. In cases where the Home Country State designation is unclear, the employee will be subject to the prior Home Country State 
       
  The employee will be allowed as a state deduction the greater of: 
    
           a. 
    hypothetical federal itemized deductions, less hypothetical state and local tax or 
              b. 
    standard deduction 

Net personal (or outside) income is income that is not connected to employment with the bank. 
    
  Examples of personal income include: 

Interest income 

Dividend income 

Alimony 

Capital gain or loss 

Pension or annuities 

Rental income or loss 

Income from a partnership or trust 

Spousal income 

Wages from former employment 
       
  Outside Income includes the personal income of the employee, as per the actual 
  U.S.        Federal Tax Return. Outside income also includes children s income to be taxed at the parent s tax rate. 
    
  The hypothetical tax treatment of net personal income will generally follow the applicable tax laws that would apply on the Home Country/state/provincial individual income tax return of the employee had the foreign assignment not taken place. 
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 9 of 13 

Further details on the treatment of spousal earnings can be found in Section 4.3. 
    
  Limitations on Personal Income 
    
  Under tax equalization program, the individual income tax obligations of the employee are limited to the hypothetical tax that would have been imposed had the assignment not taken place. As a result, the bank directly or indirectly assumes responsibility for any and all actual tax obligations created in the Home and/or Host Country of the employee on the remuneration delivered during the assignment. 
  Personal income and investment decisions may impact these actual tax obligations. Therefore, in order to limit the global tax exposure related to the personal investment decisions of the employee during the assignment, the bank will bear only the actual local (Host Country) taxes imposed on the first $1,000 of personal income remitted into or invested in the Host jurisdiction. The bank will also only cover the actual tax imposed on the first $100,000 of personal income earned in the Home Country that is taxed in the Host Country. These taxes, in effect, represent incremental tax burdens to the bank as a result of personal investment decisions that will be transferred back to the employee. Please note any incremental tax cost that is transferred back to the employee does not release the employee from hypothetical tax obligations on that income. These obligations will be reflected net of any foreign tax credits available, if applicable. 
    
  The bank provides assignees with pre-assignment tax counseling services from the bank s designated tax provider to ensure that the tax consequences of personal investments are understood in order to avoid Host Country tax on personal income. 
    
  If any of the following undertakings result in a Host Country tax liability, those taxes will be considered solely for the account of the employee. 

Local investments - direct investment by individuals in the Host Country financial markets, including real estate, equity and debt securities, and money market instruments, with the implicit intent of profit making 

Distributions from the bank s incentive or retirement plans upon completion of assignment or cessation of employment relationship with the bank (without the appropriate tax planning initiatives or required action as stated) 

Where additional employment or personal income is transferred into the Host location - referred to as  remittance - additional taxes may result. The tax provider will advise on the tax consequences related to such actions in the assignment location.  Accordingly, if the Host Country income tax is increased as a result of additional income amounts being remitted into the Host location, the additional tax costs of such actions will be passed on to the employee. In all cases, the Global Mobility Tax Manager should be contacted prior to the remittance of any significant income into a Host location 
       
           4.5 
    Assignment-Related Allowances 
       
  The bank will assume responsibility for the Home and Host Country taxes deriving from the delivery, payment, or imputation of income on assignment-related allowances. Where the liability is not covered by the bank, this will be clearly detailed within the assignment letter. 
    
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 10 of 13 

4.6 
    Sale of Personal Assets 
       
  The sale of personal assets (stock, property, etc.) while on assignment may generate a significant Host Country tax obligation. In order to determine what the Host Country tax consequences may be, the employee should consult with the tax provider prior to the assignment regarding the possibility / advisability of selling or disposing of assets while abroad. 
    
  In the event that assets are to be sold during the foreign assignment, the employee must notify the Global Mobility Tax Manager at a minimum of three weeks prior to the sale date in order for any Host Country tax from the sale of assets to be mitigated. This timing will allow proper notification and planning to be developed by the Tax Provider which will be intended to mitigate potential Host Country tax. Failure to meet the three-week notice period requirement may result in a revocation of  any tax equalization protection on this income. 
    
           4.7 
    Sale of Principal Residence 
       
  The bank will not provide assistance with the sale of the principal Home Country residence of the employee or cover or reimburse any loss sustained or incurred from the sale of any residence or property, including secondary Homes or rental properties, prior, during, or after the assignment. The alternatives of  selling or renting his/her principal residence, and the tax consequences of each in the Home and Host countries, should be discussed in detail with the tax provider at the time of the pre-assignment consultations. 
    
  In the event that certain tax benefits, e.g., Section 121 exclusion for principal residence located within the United States, is lost as a result of an extension of assignment or relocation/repatriation to a different work location at the management's request, bank may reimburse for the lost benefit resulting from the sale of principal residence. However, any tax deriving from the unrecaptured Section 1250 gain (U.S. properties) resulting from depreciation expenses claimed while the property was rented will be borne by the employee. 

Any foreign tax credits that are paid, accrued, reimbursed, or advanced by the bank that are utilized on the individual income tax return of the employee, or refunded by a tax authority, are to be remitted to the bank. This includes foreign tax credit carry overs or carry backs that are utilized in non-assignment years or that are subsequent to the cessation of employment with the bank. Any refund generated from the use of such credits must be returned to the bank. 
    
  In the event that an employee has accrued foreign tax credits prior to employment with the bank, the benefit of those credits will be for the employee s and/or previous employer s account, as the case may be. However, foreign tax credits related to Host Country taxes paid by the bank will be considered and claimed first. 
    
           4.9 
    FICA Reconciliation 
     An employee who transfers on assignment or repatriates from an assignment during the calendar year, who has a U.S. economic employer and is subject to U.S. social security, and who changes their corporate employer s entity may have FICA contributions withheld in excess of the annual limitations. As a result, during the course of the year, the employee may be contributing a larger amount of FICA than 
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 11 of 13 

had they remained in the Home location. During the tax equalization settlement process, the employee will receive credit for social security taxes paid in excess of the hypothetical stay-at-Home amount. 
  In addition, cases may arise where as a result of the assignment, there could be an underpayment of FICA contributions by the employee during the course of the year. As above, such underpayment will be reconciled during the tax equalization settlement process. The employee will settle any underpayment of FICA via the tax equalization. 
    
           4.10 
    Penalties, Interest and Additional Fees 
       
  As stated previously, penalties and interest attributable to bank-related matters for which the employee is not responsible for will be paid by the bank. However, the bank in conjunction with the tax provider, will determine the appropriate allocation, if any, of penalties and interest between the employee and the bank, where the actions of the employee, or inactions, are the basis or cause of the penalties and/or interest being assessed. 
    
  If the employee fails to provide the designated tax provider with complete and timely tax data as prescribed, the bank not only reserves the right to stop or reduce certain allowances and to charge penalties and interest to the employee. The bank also reserves the right to hold the employee responsible for any increased tax preparer fees. The Global Mobility Tax Manager can assist the employees in understanding their responsibilities and the necessity to comply with the deadlines and due dates established. 
    
           4.11 
    Repatriation/Localization   Tracking of Trailing Equalization Issues 
       
  Tax equalization will effectively cease at the end of the international assignment. 
    
  Cash Incentive -   Any short-term cash incentive (i.e., year-end bonus) related to the repatriation (localization) year will be split between the assignment period and the post-assignment period. The assignment period portion will have hypothetical taxes withheld from it and be delivered through the assignment payroll. The post- assignment portion will be subject to actual tax withholdings and will be delivered through the Home Country payroll. 
    
  Equity/Long Term Cash Awards     The assignee will be tax protected from the incremental tax expense for any equity and/or Long Term Cash incentive the assignee holds during the assignment period which is due to end at the effective date of the repatriation (localization).  Any equity and/or Long Term Cash awards allocated to the pre or post assignment are the assignee s personal tax 
  responsibility. 
    
  Upon delivery, the awards will be subject to all applicable home or host country actual taxes. The bank's tax provider will prepare (1) an interim reconciliation no later than 2 months following delivery of the tax protected income and (2) a reconciliation upon completion of the home country tax return. This will determine the obligation to pay tax equal to the lesser of actual taxes paid by the assignee or the hypothetical taxes the assignee would have paid while on assignment prior to the repatriation (localization). 
    
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 12 of 13 

For any outstanding receivables due the bank resulting from prior tax reconciliations, the bank reserves the right to deduct these amounts from any future reimbursements due upon completion of the reconciliation. 
    
  Foreign tax credit carryovers that were funded by bank during the actual assignment period will continue to be used up first as detailed in Section 4.8. 
    
           4.12 
    Termination or Resignation While on Assignment 
       
  If the employee resigns from the bank or is terminated, the bank reserves the right to withdraw tax services or tax equalization for any payments due after the resignation / termination date. Generally the employee will be tax protected against any future Home and Host trailing liabilities (e.g., trailing equity, severance) related to their international assignment. Tax protection ensures the employee pays no more tax than if they had stayed at Home, but does allow for the employee to pay less tax if less tax is actually due. While the trailing tax liabilities in both the Home and Host location become the responsibility of the employee to pay, the bank will continue to provide tax preparation assistance by its designated tax provider and will  also provide a year-end tax protection reconciliation. Foreign tax credit carryovers that were funded by bank during the actual assignment period will continue to be used up first as detailed in Section 4.8. 
    
           4.13 
    Withdrawal of Tax Equalization / Tax Services 
       
  The tax equalization process depends upon the full cooperation of the employee in providing relevant information and documents in a timely and orderly manner to minimize their actual Home and Host-Country tax liability. Failure to do so may cause the tax authority to charge interest or penalties, which in turn will be charged to the employee. If the employee refuses to meet their obligations in the process, the bank reserves the right to withdraw tax equalization for any future payments in both the Home and/or Host-Country as well as the services of the designated tax service provider. The bank also reserves the right to deduct any outstanding tax authority and/or designated tax provider liabilities payable by the bank and/or  any overpayment of hypothetical tax to the employee from any outstanding sums due to the employee. In the event such outstanding sums are insufficient to cover the amount due, the employee will be required to immediately reimburse the bank. 
  If the employee has any specific questions around the bank tax equalization program they should be directed to the relevant Global Mobility Tax Manager. 
    Tax Equalization Program - US - Effective 1 January 2010 - Revised Dec 2014                Page 13 of 13 

</EX-10.UU>

<EX-10.VV>
 4
 bac-1231201510xkex10vv.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.VV

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10(vv) 
    
  FIRST AMENDMENT 
  TO THE  
  BANK OF AMERICA 401(K) RESTORATION PLAN 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2015) 
    
  Instrument of Amendment 
    
  THIS INSTRUMENT OF AMENDMENT (the  Instrument ) is executed by BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation with its principal office and place of business in Charlotte, North Carolina (the  Company ). 
  Statement of Purpose 
  The Company sponsors the Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan (the  Plan ) for the benefit of its eligible employees and the eligible employees of its affiliated companies that participate in the Plan.  The provisions of the Plan are currently set forth in an instrument of the Company dated December 5, 2014, which amended and restated the Plan effective January 1, 2015.  The Company has reserved the right in Section 4.1 of the Plan to amend the Plan in whole or in part, on its own behalf and on behalf of its affiliated companies that participate in the Plan.  By this Instrument, the Company is amending the Plan to reflect (i) the new name of the Plan, (ii) provide for certain evergreen elections for the 2017 Plan Year and later Plan Years, and (iii) otherwise meet current needs.    
  NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby amends the Plan to be effective as provided herein: 
  1.  Effective as of January 1, 2016, the Plan is hereby renamed the  Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan,  every reference to  Bank of America 401(k) Restoration Plan  in the Plan is hereby amended to read  Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan  and Section 1.43 is hereby amended to read as follows:  
     1.43     Restoration Plan 
  The Bank of America Deferred Compensation Plan as in effect from time to time.   
  2.  Effective as of January 1, 2016, Section 2.2(e)(ii) of the Plan is hereby amended in its entirety to read as follows:  
            (ii) 
    For the 2015 and 2016 Plan Years:    Effective with respect to the 2015 and 2016 Plan Years, if an Eligible Employee does not make a deferral election under this Section for such Plan Year, such Eligible Employee  
       CH-3226593 v5    

shall be deemed to have elected not to defer any amount under the Restoration Plan for such Plan Years and such election shall be irrevocable for such Plan Years.   
  3.  Effective as of January 1, 2016, a new Paragraph (iii) is hereby added to the end of Section 2.2(e) of the Plan to read as follows:  
            (iii) 
    Evergreen Deferral Election For the 2017 Plan Year and Later Plan Years:    Effective with respect to the 2017 Plan Year and subsequent Plan Years after the 2017 Plan Year, if an Eligible Employee has previously made an affirmative deferral election (or has been deemed to have made an affirmative deferral election by application of this Paragraph  after an initial affirmative deferral election) under this Section, and such Eligible Employee does not make a deferral election under this Section for a subsequent Plan Year for which such Eligible Employee is an Eligible Employee, such Eligible Employee shall be deemed to have affirmatively elected to defer the same amount under the Restoration Plan for the subsequent Plan Year as such Participant elected in the immediately preceding Plan Year, and such election shall be irrevocable for the Plan Year ( Evergreen Deferral Election ).  For the avoidance of doubt, Participants are able to prevent an Evergreen Deferral Election as described in this Paragraph by making an affirmative deferral election under this Section.   
     4.  Effective as of July 1, 2015, Section 2.5(d) of the Plan is hereby deleted in its entirety.  
  5.  Effective as of January 1, 2016, a new Subsection (k) is hereby added to the end of Section 2.8 of the Plan to read as follows: 
            (k) 
    Evergreen Payment Elections For the 2017 Plan Year and Later Plan Years:     Notwithstanding anything in this Section to the contrary, effective with respect to the 2017 Plan Year and subsequent Plans Years after the 2017 Plan Year, if a Participant has an Evergreen Deferral Election for a Plan Year pursuant to Section 2.2(e)(iii) and such Participant does not make an affirmative class year payment election under this Section with respect to the Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account  
       2 

for such Plan Year, the Participant shall be deemed to have made a payment election for such Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account as determined by the Committee (an  Evergreen Payment Election  provided, however, that prior to the time that Participants are afforded an opportunity to make a payment election for the Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for a given Plan Year pursuant to Section 2.8(a)(i)(B), the Committee shall notify the Participants of the particular Evergreen Payment Election that shall apply in the event that the Participants do not make an affirmative payment election, and such Evergreen Payment Election shall be uniform for all such Participants.  Not in limitation of the foregoing, such Evergreen Payment Election may result in a payment election that is (i) the same payment election that applied to such Participant s Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for the immediately preceding Plan Year (for example, if the payment election for the Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for the 2017 Plan Year was a lump sum in 2027, the deemed Evergreen Payment Election for the Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for the 2018 Plan Year shall also be a lump sum in 2027); (ii) the same payment election that applied to such Participant s Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for the immediately preceding Plan Year, except as modified for the passage of time (for example, if the payment election for the Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for the 2017 Plan Year was a lump sum in 2027, the deemed Evergreen Payment Election for the Post-2014 Deferral Sub-Account for the 2018 Plan Year shall be a lump sum in 2028); (iii) a lump sum payment following zero years after the Participant s Termination of Employment as described in Section 2.8(c)(i); or (iv) any other Evergreen Payment Election method as determined and documented by the Committee.  In the event that the Committee applies method (i) above and the Evergreen Payment Election results in a deemed payment election for a specified calendar year that does not begin at least 24 months after the start of the Plan Year with respect to which such Evergreen Payment Election applies, the Participant shall be deemed to have elected a lump sum payment following zero years after the Participant s Termination of Employment (for example, with respect to the Post-2014 Payment Election Source comprised of Class Year Deferrals for the 2017 Plan Year, if the  
    3 

specified calendar year under method (i) above results in an Evergreen Payment Election of 2018, the deemed Evergreen Payment Election for that the 2017 Plan Year shall be a lump sum payment following zero years after the Participant s Termination of Employment).  The Evergreen Payment Election shall be irrevocable for the Plan Year.  For the avoidance of doubt, Participants are able to prevent an Evergreen Payment Election as described in this Subsection by making an affirmative payment election under Section 2.8(a)(i)(B).      
  6.    Except as expressly or by necessary implication amended hereby, the Plan shall continue in full force and effect. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company, on behalf of all of the Participating Employers, has caused this Instrument to be duly executed on the 17   th    day of December, 2015. 
  BANK OF AMERICA CORPORATION 
  By:   /s/ Richard J. Hille                          
   Richard J. Hille 
   Global Head of Compensation and Benefits 
    
    4 

</EX-10.VV>

<EX-12>
 5
 bac-1231201510xkex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 

(1)   
    Represents an appropriate interest factor. 
               (2)   
    The loss before income taxes for 2011 reflects the impact of $8.8 billion of mortgage banking losses and $3.2 billion of goodwill impairment charges, which resulted in a negative preferred dividend requirement.  
     n/m = not meaningful 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 bac-1231201510xkex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 

   Direct and Indirect Subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation 
  As of December 31, 2015 
                   Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Asian-American Merchant Bank Limited 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      BA Continuum Costa Rica, Limitada 
    San Jose, Costa Rica 
    Costa Rica 
      BA Continuum India Private Limited 
    Hyderabad, India 
    India 
      BA Continuum Singapore International Holdings Private Limited 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      BA Credit Card Funding, LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BA Electronic Data Processing (Guangzhou) Ltd. 
    Guangzhou, PRC 
    People's Republic of China 
      BAC Canada Finance Company 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      BAC North America Holding Company 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BANA Canada Funding Company Ltd. 
    Calgary, Alberta, Canada 
    Canada 
      BANA Holding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America FSC Holdings, Inc. 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Leasing   Capital, LLC 
    San Francisco, CA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Merchant Services, LLC 
    Atlanta, GA 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Preferred Funding Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      Banc of America Public Capital Corp 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Kansas 
      Banc of America Securities Asia Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong 
      Bank of America California, National Association 
    San Francisco, CA 
    United States of America 
      Bank of America Malaysia Berhad 
    Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      Bank of America Merrill Lynch Banco Multiplo S.A. 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Bank of America Merrill Lynch International Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Bank of America Mexico, S.A., Institucion de Banca Multiple 
    Mexico City, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      Bank of America Singapore Limited 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Bank of America, National Association 
    Charlotte, NC 
    United States of America 
      BankAmerica International Financial Corporation 
    San Francisco, CA 
    United States of America 
      Blue Ridge Investments, L.L.C. 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      BofA Canada Bank 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      BofA Distributors, Inc. 
    Boston, MA 
    Massachusetts 
      BofAML Funding Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Boston Overseas Financial Corporation  
    New York, NY 
    United States of America 
      CM Investment Solutions Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Countrywide Financial Corporation 
    Calabasas, CA 
    Delaware 
      Countrywide Home Loans, Inc. 
    Calabasas, CA 
    New York 
      DSP Merrill Lynch Limited 
    Mumbai, India 
    India 
      FIA Holdings S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Financial Data Services, Inc. 
    Jacksonville, FL 
    Florida 
      First Franklin Financial Corporation 
    San Jose, CA 
    Delaware 
      Managed Account Advisors LLC 
    Jersey City, NJ 
    Delaware 
      Marlborough Sounds LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      MBNA Limited 
    Chester, England 
    United Kingdom 
      Merrill Lynch (Asia Pacific) Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong 
      Merrill Lynch (Australia) Futures Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch Argentina S.A. 
    Capital Federal, Argentina 
    Argentina 
      Merrill Lynch B.V. 
    Amsterdam, Netherlands 
    Netherlands 
      Merrill Lynch Bank and Trust Company (Cayman) Limited 
    George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Is. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Merrill Lynch Canada Inc. 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Markets AG 
    Zurich, Switzerland 
    Switzerland 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Markets Espana, S.A., S.V. 
    Madrid, Spain 
    Spain 
      Merrill Lynch Capital Services, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities (Europe) Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities Canada, ULC 
    Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
    Canada 
      Merrill Lynch Commodities, Inc. 
    Houston, TX 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Corredores de Bolsa SpA 
    Santiago, Chile 
    Chile 
      Merrill Lynch Credit Reinsurance Limited 
    Hamilton, Bermuda 
    Bermuda 
      Merrill Lynch Derivative Products AG 
    Zurich, Switzerland 
    Switzerland 
      Merrill Lynch Equities (Australia) Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch Equity S.a.r.l. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch Far East Limited 
    Hong Kong, PRC 
    Hong Kong 
      Merrill Lynch Financial Markets, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Global Services Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch International 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Merrill Lynch International   Co. C.V. 
    Curacao, Netherlands Antilles 
    Curacao 
      Merrill Lynch International Bank Limited 
    Dublin, Ireland 
    Ireland 
      Merrill Lynch International Incorporated 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Israel Ltd. 
    Tel Aviv, Israel 
    Israel 
      Merrill Lynch Japan Finance GK 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 
      Merrill Lynch Japan Securities Co., Ltd. 
    Tokyo, Japan 
    Japan 

1 

                       Name 
    Location 
    Jurisdiction 
      Merrill Lynch Life Agency Inc. (Washington) 
    Pennington, NJ 
    Washington 
      Merrill Lynch Luxembourg Finance S.A. 
    Luxembourg, Luxembourg 
    Luxembourg 
      Merrill Lynch Malaysian Advisory Sdn. Bhd. 
    Kuala Lumpus, Malaysia 
    Malaysia 
      Merrill Lynch Markets (Australia) Pty. Limited 
    Sydney, Australia 
    Australia 
      Merrill Lynch Markets Singapore Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore, Singapore 
    Singapore 
      Merrill Lynch Menkul Degerler A.S. 
    Istanbul, Turkey 
    Turkey 
      Merrill Lynch Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Casa de Bolsa 
    Mexico City, Mexico 
    Mexico 
      Merrill Lynch Mortgage Lending, Inc. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Professional Clearing Corp. 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      Merrill Lynch Reinsurance Solutions LTD 
    Hamilton, Bermuda 
    Bermuda 
      Merrill Lynch S.A. Corretora de Titulos e Valores Mobiliarios 
    Sao Paulo, Brazil 
    Brazil 
      Merrill Lynch Securities (Taiwan) Ltd. 
    Taipei, Taiwan 
    Taiwan 
      Merrill Lynch Securities (Thailand) Limited 
    Bangkok, Thailand 
    Thailand 
      Merrill Lynch South Africa (Proprietary) Limited 
    Gauteng, South Africa 
    South Africa 
      Merrill Lynch UK Holdings Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Merrill Lynch Yatirim Bank A.S. 
    Istanbul, Turkey 
    Turkey 
      Merrill Lynch, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Company 
    Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 
    Saudi Arabia 
      Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      ML Equity Solutions Jersey Limited 
    St. Helier, Jersey 
    Jersey 
      Mortgages 1 Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      Mortgages plc 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      NB Holdings Corporation 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      One Bryant Park LLC 
    New York, NY 
    Delaware 
      OOO Merrill Lynch Securities 
    Moscow, Russia 
    Russia Federation 
      Prime Asset Custody Transfers Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 
      PT Merrill Lynch Indonesia 
    Jakarta, Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      ReconTrust Company, National Association 
    Simi Valley, CA 
    United States of America 
      Specialized Lending, LLC 
    Dallas, TX 
    Delaware 
      Spring Valley Management LLC 
    Charlotte, NC 
    Delaware 
      U.S. Trust Company of Delaware 
    Wilmington, DE 
    Delaware 
      Wave Lending Limited 
    London, U.K. 
    United Kingdom 

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(21)(ii) of Regulation S-K, the names of certain other subsidiaries of Bank of America Corporation are omitted. These subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate, would not constitute a "significant subsidiary" under SEC rules. 
    
    2 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 bac-1231201510xkex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in: 

of Bank of America Corporation of our report dated   February 24, 2016   relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. 
  
  Charlotte, North Carolina 
  February 24, 2016 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 bac-1231201510xkex24.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 

Exhibit 24  
    
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the several undersigned officers and directors whose signatures appear below, hereby makes, constitutes and appoints David G. Leitch and Ross E. Jeffries, Jr., and each of them acting individually, its, his or her true and lawful attorneys with power to act without any other and with full power of substitution, to prepare, execute, deliver and file in its, his or her name and on its, his or her behalf, and in each of the undersigned officer's and director's capacity or capacities as shown below, an Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2015  , and all exhibits thereto and all documents in support thereof or supplemental thereto, and any and all amendments or supplements to the foregoing, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys or attorney might do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF,  each of the undersigned officers and directors, in the capacity or capacities noted, has hereunto set his or her hand as of the date indicated below. 
                     Signature 
      
    Title 
    Date 

/s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
      
    Chief Executive Officer, Chairman and Director 
    February 24, 2016 
      Brian T. Moynihan 
      
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Paul M. Donofrio 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
    February 24, 2016 
      Paul M. Donofrio 
      
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ Rudolf A. Bless 
      
    Chief Accounting Officer 
    February 24, 2016 
      Rudolf A. Bless 
      
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ Sharon L. Allen 
      
    Director 
    February 24, 2016 
      Sharon L. Allen 

/s/ Susan S. Bies 
      
    Director 
    February 24, 2016 
      Susan S. Bies 

/s/ Jack O. Bovender, Jr. 
      
    Director 
    February 24, 2016 
      Jack O. Bovender, Jr. 

/s/ Frank P. Bramble, Sr. 
      
    Director 
    February 23, 2016 
      Frank P. Bramble, Sr. 

/s/ Pierre de Weck 
      
    Director 
    February 24, 2016 
      Pierre de Weck 

/s/ Arnold W. Donald 
      
    Director 
    February 24, 2016 
      Arnold W. Donald 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 9
 bac-1231201510xkex31a.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(a) 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  FOR THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
  I, Brian T. Moynihan, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Bank of America Corporation; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                   Date: 
    February 24, 2016 
    /s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
  Brian T. Moynihan 
  Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 10
 bac-1231201510xkex31b.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31(b) 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  FOR THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  I, Paul M. Donofrio, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Bank of America Corporation; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                   Date: 
    February 24, 2016 
    /s/ Paul M. Donofrio 
  Paul M. Donofrio 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 11
 bac-1231201510xkex32a.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.A

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32(a) 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Brian T. Moynihan, state and attest that: 
           1. 
    I am the Chief Executive Officer of Bank of America Corporation (the registrant). 
                  
    the information contained in the periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented. 
       
                   Date: 
    February 24, 2016 
    /s/ Brian T. Moynihan 
  Brian T. Moynihan 
  Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 12
 bac-1231201510xkex32b.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.B

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32(b) 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Paul M. Donofrio, state and attest that: 
           1. 
    I am the Chief Financial Officer of Bank of America Corporation (the registrant). 
                  
    the information contained in the periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented. 
       
                   Date: 
    February 24, 2016 
    /s/ Paul M. Donofrio 
  Paul M. Donofrio 
  Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 bac-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 bac-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 bac-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 bac-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 bac-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 bac-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

