<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080226_10-K_edgar_data_51143_0001047469-08-001731_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6197510</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>592776</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>94800</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3936454</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>163</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-08-001731.hdr.sgml : 20080226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080226140645
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-08-001731
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000051143
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT [3570]
		IRS NUMBER:				130871985
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02360
		FILM NUMBER:		08642368

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD ROAD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9144991900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD RD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 BqmnrYpV3nwRjhmD1tMhIzI1lrhVzvYand9ZU9mdYiF+GYGCu1TOGJdKIkbAOPiP
 YgsM8+8r0uF4fx6nqRnxeA==

 0001047469-08-001731.txt : 20080226

10-K
 1
 a2181836z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K       ANNUAL REPORT 
pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007     

    1-2360      (Commission file number)   

   INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

914-499-1900      (Registrant's telephone number)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of "accelerated filer," "large accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-Accelerated filer      

Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). Yes        No       

            The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of
the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $144.1 billion.   

Documents incorporated by reference:   

            Portions of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2007 into Parts I, II
and IV of Form 10-K.   

            Portions of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008 are incorporated by reference into Part III of Form 10-K.   

PART I            

   Item 1. Business:     

          International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the
Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New
York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological invention, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over
80 years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: IBM is a globally integrated innovation
company, serving the needs of enterprises and institutions worldwide. To help clients achieve growth, effectiveness, efficiency and the realization of greater value through innovation, IBM draws upon
the world's leading systems, software and services capabilities.   

  *
* *   

   Description of Business     

          IBM is a globally integrated enterprise that targets the intersection of technology and effective business. The company seeks to be a partner in its clients'
success by enabling their own capacity for distinctive innovation. To help clients achieve growth, effectiveness, efficiency and the realization of greater value through innovation, IBM draws upon the
world's leading systems, software and services capabilities.   

   IBM'S STRATEGY     

          In IBM's view, today's networked economy has created a global business landscape and a mandate for business change. Integrated global economies have opened
markets of new opportunity and new sources of skills. The Internet has enabled communication and collaboration across the world and brought with it a new computing model premised on continuous global
connection. In that landscape, companies can distribute work and technology anywhere in the world.   

Given
these opportunities, IBM is working with its clients to develop new business designs and technical architectures that allow their businesses the flexibility required to compete in
this new landscape. The business is also adjusting its footprint towards emerging geographies, tapping their double-digit growth, providing the technology infrastructure they need, and taking
advantage of the talent pools they provide to better service the company's clients.   

          IBM's
strategy addresses this new era and delivers value to its clients through three strategic priorities:   

Focus on Open Technologies and High-Value Solutions      

          The PC era has ended, representing a fundamental shift in the technology requirements of the company's clients. IBM is well positioned to provide its enterprise
clients the open technologies and high-value solutions they will need to compete.   

IBM is leveraging its leadership position in the convergence of software and services, in SOA, in virtualization, in high-performance
chips, in open and modular IT continuing its shift from commoditizing segments to higher value segments with better profit opportunity.   
            The company continues to be a leading force in open source solutions to enable its clients to achieve higher levels of interoperability, cost
efficiency and quality.    
 
  1  

Deliver Integration and Innovation to Clients      

          Changes in the market have caused IBM's clients to seek flexibility and innovation in everything from technical architecture to their business model. In response,
IBM is focused on delivering integration and innovation to its clients offering them technologies and services that support real value creation.   

IBM has a long heritage of transforming the business operations of large enterprises and has earned the trust to be their innovation partner and
global integrator.   
            The company has a deep set of global assets and capabilities it is applying to improve services profitability, both for its clients and for
itself.    

Become the Premier Globally Integrated Enterprise      

          As global networks and technology capabilities change business economics, legacy business designs can quickly become non-competitive. IBM believes a
globally integrated enterprise, designed for this new landscape can compete effectively and will benefit from the opportunities offered.   

To reshape its business for the global economy, IBM has replaced vertical hierarchies with horizontally integrated teams.   
            Across the business, the company has made significant investments in emerging markets, taking core processes and functions that were once managed
regionally and shifting them to a globally integrated model.    

Looking
forward, IBM is confident it understands the economic shift of globalization, the evolution of the new computing model and the powerful role of innovation in this new landscape.
Its unique
capabilities are well adapted to help the company's clients innovate and compete effectively in the new landscape.   

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES     

          The company's major operations comprise a Global Technology Services segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Systems and Technology segment; a Software
segment; and a Global Financing segment.   

  2  

Global Services    is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to clients. While
solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and hardware, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Contracts for IBM services commonly referred
to as "signings" can range from less than one year to over ten years. Within Global Services there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.   

Global Technology Services (GTS)    segment primarily reflects IT infrastructure services and business process services, delivering value through the
company's global scale, standardization and automation.   

    GTS Capabilities      

           Strategic Outsourcing Services.       Comprehensive IT services integrated with business insight working with clients to reduce
costs and improve productivity through the outsourcing of processes and operations.   

           Business Transformation Outsourcing.       A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and Business Process
Outsourcing through transformational offerings that delivers improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and
infrastructure.   

           Integrated Technology Services.       Services offerings that help clients access, manage and support their technology
infrastructures, through a combination of skilled resources, software and IBM's knowledge of business processes.   

Maintenance.       A number of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the
availability of clients' IT infrastructure.   

   Global Business Services (GBS)    segment primarily reflects professional services and application outsourcing services, delivering business value and
innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry- and business-process expertise.   

GBS Capabilities      

           Consulting and Systems Integration.       Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for client-relationship
management, financial management, human capital management, business strategy and change, and supply-chain management.   

           Application Management Services.       Application development, management, maintenance and support services for packaged software,
as well as custom and legacy applications. Delivering value through the company's global resource capabilities, industry knowledge, and the standardization and automation of application development.   

Systems and Technology    segment provides IBM's clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately
55 percent of the Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user
clients, more than 40 percent of which are through the
Internet at ibm.com. In addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology and products, packaging solutions and engineering technology services to clients and for IBM's own
advanced technology needs. While not reported as external revenue, systems hardware is also deployed to support services solutions.   

  3  

Systems and Technology Capabilities      

           Servers.       IBM systems, which are typically connected to a network and provide the required infrastructure for business. These
systems use both IBM and non-IBM operating systems and all IBM servers can also run Linux, a key open source operating system. (System z, System i, System p,
System x and BladeCenter).   

           Storage.       Information infrastructure products and solutions, which address critical client requirements for information
retention and archiving, availability and virtualization, and security and compliance. The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and software.   

           Microelectronics.       Semiconductor design and manufacturing for use in IBM systems and for sale to external clients.   

Engineering and Technology Services.       System and component design services, Blue Gene "supercomputer systems," outsourcing of
clients' design teams and technology and manufacturing consulting services.   

           Retail Store Solutions.       Point-of-sale retail systems (network connected cash registers) as well as
solutions which connect them to other store systems (for example, inventory).   

   Software    consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and
applications across a standard software platform. IBM middleware is designed to open standards which allows the efficient integration of disparate client applications that may have been built
internally, or provided by package software vendors or system integrators. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. In addition, Software
includes Product Lifecycle Management software which primarily serves the Industrial sector. Approximately two-thirds of external software segment revenue is annuity-based, coming from
recurring license charges and on-going subscription and support from one-time charge (OTC) arrangements. The remaining one-third of external revenue relates to OTC
arrangements, in which the client pays one up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, arrangements for the sale of OTC software include one year of maintenance. The client can
also purchase ongoing maintenance after the first year, which includes product upgrades and technical support. While not reported as external revenue, software is also deployed to support services
solutions.   

    Software Capabilites      

           WebSphere Software.       Management of a wide variety of business processes using open standards to interconnect applications,
data and operating systems. Provides the foundation for Web-enabled applications and is a key product set in deploying a Services Oriented Architecture.   

Information Management Software.       Advanced database, content management and information integration software that helps
companies integrate, manage and gain value from their business information.   

           Tivoli Software.       Software for infrastructure management, including security and storage management that will help
organizations better manage their IT infrastructure to more effectively deliver IT services.   

Lotus Software.       Collaboration, messaging and social networking software that enables businesses to communicate, collaborate
and increase productivity.   

           Rational Software.       Software tools that help clients manage their software development processes and capabilities.   

  4  

Operating Systems.       Software engines that manage the fundamental processes that make computers run.   

   Global Financing    is described on pages 50 and 51 in IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders.   

    Global Financing Capabilities      

           Commercial Financing.       Short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT
products.   

           Client Financing.       Lease and loan financing to external and internal clients for terms generally between two and seven years.   

           Remarketing.       The sale and lease of used equipment (primarily sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions) to new or
existing clients.   

   IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS     

The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:   

Sales and Distribution Organization     
            Research, Development and Intellectual Property     
            Integrated Operations      

Sales and Distribution Organization      

          The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country based operating units focused on delivering client
value. Within these units, client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients' business performance.
These teams deliver value by understanding the client's business and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement
solutions for clients.   

          By
combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by leveraging
industry skills with marketing, ibm.com and local Business Partner resources.   

          The
majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six sectors:   

Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance     
            Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences     
            Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics     
            Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation     
            Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities     
            Small and Medium Business: Mainly companies with less than 1,000 employees      
 
  5  

Research, Development and Intellectual Property      

          IBM's research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually spends approximately $6 billion for R D,
focusing its investments in high-growth, high-value opportunities. In 2007, the company's investment in R D was approximately 15 percent of its combined hardware and
software revenue. As a result of innovations in these and other areas, IBM was once again awarded more U.S. patents in 2007 than any other company. This marks the 15th year in a row that IBM achieved
this distinction.   

          In
addition to producing world-class hardware and software products, IBM innovations are a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company's clients through its growing
services activities. The company's investments in R D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used
exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee.   

   INTEGRATED OPERATIONS     

          IBM's ability to deliver differentiating innovation to its clients is being greatly enhanced by the company's global integration which is simultaneously giving
the company better economics and deeper capabilities, while eliminating redundancies that were built up over fifty years as a growing multinational enterprise. The company operates in 170 countries,
with approximately 69 percent of its employees outside the U.S. As a globally integrated enterprise, the company organizes work based on the right costs, the right skills and the right business
environment, integrating deeply with its partners, suppliers and clients. Being global is about gaining access to talent and skills and then scaling them globally to develop new, distinctive
capabilities. The company's integrated operations enable IBM to be the most efficient, responsive and globally integrated enterprise able to instantly leverage its expertise and
capabilities anywhere, at any time. Although bound by a common mission and principles, Integrated Operations is comprised of three distinct units, each with very specific objectives
closely aligned with the IBM businesses they support.   

Integrated Supply Chain      

          Just as IBM works to transform its clients' supply chains for greater efficiency and responsiveness to global market conditions, the company continues to derive
business value from its own globally integrated supply chain, reinvented as a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients and shareholders. IBM leverages its supply-chain expertise
for clients through its supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply-chain processes, from procurement to
logistics.   

          IBM
spends approximately $38 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services around the world. The company's supply, manufacturing and logistics and
customer fulfillment operations are integrated in one operating unit that has reduced inventories, improved response to marketplace opportunities and external risks and converted fixed to variable
costs. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations, sales force productivity and processes, and these actions have improved client satisfaction.   

    Integrated Technology Delivery      

          Integrated Technology Delivery (ITD) brings together all of the company's worldwide service delivery capabilities for Strategic Outsourcing with strong local and
regional management teams supported by a set of global competencies. ITD leverages the company's global scale and advanced technology to deliver standardized solutions that are automated, repeatable
and globally integrated.   

  6  

Through
the company's global position, clients gain cost advantages, access to industry-leading skills and access to IBM's scale and overall flexibility. ITD manages the world's largest
privately-owned IT infrastructure with employees in over 30 countries supporting over 400 data centers.   

Integrated Managed Business Process Delivery      

          Integrated Managed Business Process Delivery (IMBPD) provides highly efficient, world class delivery capabilities in IBM's business process delivery operations,
which include Business Transformation Outsourcing, Business Process Outsourcing, Business Process Services and Application on Demand. IMBPD has employees and delivery centers in over 40 countries
worldwide.   

   KEY BUSINESS DRIVERS     

          The following are some of the key drivers of the company's business.   

Economic Environment and Corporate Spending Budgets      

          Global demand for systems, software and services is a key driver of the company's business and financial performance. IBM's diverse set of products and offerings
is designed to provide more consistent results in both strong and weak economic environments. The company accomplishes this by not only having a mix of offerings with long-term cash and
income streams, as well as cyclical transaction-based sales, but also by continually developing competitive products and solutions and effectively managing a skilled resource base. IBM continues to
transform itself to take advantage of shifting demand trends, focusing on client- or industry-specific solutions, business performance and open standards.   

    Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration Initiatives      

          IBM is committed to its transformation to a globally integrated enterprise. The company continues to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings by
transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and functions. In addition to eliminating redundancies and overhead structures to drive productivity, this integration has improved
IBM's capacity to innovate by providing greater clarity of key priorities around shared goals and objectives and led to a sharper focus for the company on learning, development and knowledge sharing.   

    Innovation Initiatives      

          IBM invests to improve its ability to help its clients innovate. Investment may occur in the research and development of new products and services, as well as in
the establishment of new collaborative and co-creation relationships with developers, other companies and other institutions. Examples include IBM's leadership positions in the design of
smaller, faster and energy-efficient semiconductor devices; systems virtualization, Green Data Centers and the design of "grid" computing networks that allow computers to share processing power.   

    Open Standards      

          The broad adoption of open standards is essential to the computing model for an on demand business and is a significant driver of collaborative innovation across
all industries. Without interoperability among all manner of computing platforms, the integration of any client's internal systems, applications and processes remains a monumental and expensive task.
The broad-based acceptance of open standards rather than closed, proprietary architectures also allows the computing infrastructure to more easily absorb (and thus benefit
from) new technical innovations. IBM's support of open standards is evidenced by the enabling of its products to support open standards such as Linux,   

  7  

and
the development of Rational software development tools, which can be used to develop and upgrade other companies' software products.   

Investing in Growth Opportunities      

          The company is continuing to refocus its business on the higher value segments of enterprise computing providing technology and transformation
services to clients' businesses. Consistent with that focus, the company continues to significantly invest in growth opportunities as a way to drive revenue growth and market share gains. Areas of
investment include strategic acquisitions, primarily in software and services, focused client- and industry-specific solutions, maintaining technology leadership and emerging growth countries
worldwide.   

   Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements     

          Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform
Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered to stockholders and in press
releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of future events based on
certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans,"
"projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform
Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 10 through 14 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such
cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and
from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference.   

  8  

The following information is included in IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:   

Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services pages 116 to 119.   

          Financial
information by geographic areas page 119.   

          Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R D activities page 99.   

          Financial
information regarding environmental activities page 92.   

          The
number of persons employed by the registrant page 50.   

          The
management discussion overview pages 16 and 17.   

          Available
information page 124.   

  Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.   

   Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 22, 2008):     

(1)    Member
of the Board of Directors.    

          All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as
provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Robert C. Weber, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.   

          Mr. Weber
was a partner at Jones Day, an international law firm, until joining IBM in 2006. He was with Jones Day for almost 30 years, and his career included counseling
corporations, individuals and boards of directors, as well as extensive experience in corporate derivative litigation, federal and state enforcement actions and commercial litigation.   

  9  

Item 1A. Risk Factors:            

           Economic Environment and Corporate IT Spending Budgets:       If overall demand for systems, software and services changes, whether
due to general economic conditions or a shift in corporate buying patterns, sales performance could be impacted. IBM's diverse set of products and offerings is designed to provide more consistent
results in both strong and weak economic environments. The company addresses this by not only having a mix of offerings with long-term cash and income streams, as well as cyclical
transaction-based sales, but also by continually developing competitive products and solutions and effectively managing a skilled resource base. IBM continues to transform itself to take advantage of
shifting demand trends, focusing on client or industry-specific solutions, business performance and open standards.   

           Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration Initiatives:       IBM continues to drive greater productivity, flexibility
and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and functions. In addition to eliminating redundancies and overhead structures to drive productivity, this
integration has improved IBM's capacity to innovate by providing greater clarity of key priorities around shared goals and objectives and leads to a sharper focus for the company on learning,
development and knowledge sharing. As IBM continues to drive higher levels of automation and integration into its business, IBM's dependency on internal IT systems also increases.   

           Innovation Initiatives:       IBM invests to improve its ability to help its clients innovate. Investment may occur in the research
and development of new products and services, as well as in the establishment of new collaborative and co-creation relationships with developers, other companies and other institutions. To
deliver value that helps clients differentiate themselves for competitive advantage, IBM has been moving away from commoditized categories of the IT industry and into areas in which it can
differentiate itself through innovation and by leveraging its investments in R D. In the highly competitive IT industry, with large diversified competitors as well as smaller and nimble single
technology competitors, IBM's ability to continue its cutting-edge innovation is critical to maintaining and increasing market share. IBM is managing this risk by more closely linking its
R D organization to industry-specific and client-specific needs. In addition, IBM has one of the strongest brand names in the world, and its brand and overall reputation depends in part on its ability
to continue to stand for industry-leading technology and solutions that provide business advantages.   

           Open Standards:       The broad adoption of open standards is essential to the computing model for on demand business and is a
significant driver of collaborative innovation across all industries. Without interoperability among all manner of computing platforms, the integration of any client's internal systems, applications
and processes remains a monumental and expensive task. The broad-based acceptance of open standards rather than closed, proprietary architectures also allows the computing
infrastructure to more easily absorb (and thus benefit from) new technical innovations. IBM is committed to fostering open standards because they are vital to the On Demand Operating Environment, and
because their acceptance will expand growth opportunities across the entire business services and IT industry. There are a number of competitors in the IT industry with significant resources and
investments who are committed to closed and proprietary platforms as a way to lock customers into a particular architecture. This competition may result in increased pricing pressure and/or IP claims
and proceedings.   

           Investing in Growth Opportunities:       The company is continuing to refocus its business on the higher-value segments of
enterprise computing providing technology and transformation services to clients' businesses. Consistent with that focus, the company continues to significantly invest in growth
opportunities, as a way to drive revenue growth and market share gains. IBM continues to invest in dozens of emerging growth countries including Brazil, Russia, India and China. The developing nature
of emerging growth countries presents political, social and economic risks to IBM's business, including   

  10  

risks
from inadequate infrastructure and labor disruptions in these countries, which could impact the company's ability to deliver to its clients around the world.   

           Protection of Intellectual Property:       While the company's various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to
its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a
number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms and conditions. These
protections may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to the company's nor can there be any assurance that these protections will
adequately deter misappropriation or improper use of the company's technology. Also, there can be no assurances that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the future.   

           Data Protection:       The company's products and services, as well as its internal systems and processes, involve the storage and
transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches of the company's security measures could expose
the company, its customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for the company, as well as the loss of existing
or potential customers and damage to the company's brand and reputation. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant.   

           Seasonality of Revenues and Purchases:       IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the introduction of new products and
services, the length of the sales cycles and the seasonality of technology purchases. As a result, the company's results are difficult to predict. These factors historically have resulted in lower
revenue in the first quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. In addition, the high volume of products ordered at the end of each quarter, especially at the end of the fourth quarter,
may affect IBM's ability to successfully ship all orders before the end of the quarter.   

           Local Legal, Economic and Health Conditions:       The company is a globally integrated entity, operating in 170 countries
worldwide and deriving more than sixty percent of its revenues from sales outside the United States. Changes in the laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates could affect the
company's business in that country and the company's overall results of operations. The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic and political changes in those countries and
by macroeconomic changes, including recessions, inflation and currency fluctuations
between the U.S. dollar and local currency. In addition, any widespread outbreak of an illness or other health issue, such as severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS), avian influenza (bird
flu) or any other pandemic, or local or global health issues, could adversely affect the company's operations and its ability to source and deliver products and services to its customers and customer
demand.   

           Insurance:       The company maintains third party insurance coverage against various liability risks and risks of property loss.
While we believe these arrangements are an effective way to insure against liability and property damage risks, the potential liabilities associated with those risks or other events could exceed the
coverage provided by such arrangements.   

           Environmental Matters:       The company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning
the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the U.S. Superfund law. The company could incur substantial costs, including cleanup costs,
fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental laws and   

  11  

regulations.
Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and competitive position.   

           Tax Matters:       The company is subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. IBM's
provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to, income before taxes being lower than anticipated in
countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax
laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition in future periods. In addition, IBM is
subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting
from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on
the company's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.   

           Internal Controls:       Effective internal controls are necessary for the company to provide reasonable assurance with respect to
its financial reports and to effectively prevent fraud. If the company cannot provide reasonable assurance with respect to its financial reports and effectively prevent fraud, the company's operating
results could be affected. Pursuant to the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the company is required to furnish a report by management on internal control over financial reporting, including management's
assessment of the effectiveness of such control. Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of
human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Therefore, even effective internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair
presentation of financial statements. In addition, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the
control may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. If the company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal
controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the company's business and operating results could
be harmed, the company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations, and there could be a material adverse effect on the company's stock price.   

Use of Estimates:       In connection with the application of generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and the preparation
of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the company uses certain estimates and assumptions, which are based on historical experience and management's knowledge of current events and actions that the
company may undertake in the future. The company's most critical accounting estimates are described in the Management Discussion on pages 47 to 49 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders.
In addition, as discussed in note N, "Contingencies and Commitments" on pages 94 through 96 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, the company makes certain estimates under the
provisions of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies", including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. While management believes that these estimates and assumptions are
reasonable under the circumstances, by definition they involve the use of judgment and the exercise of discretion, and therefore, actual results may differ.   

           Competitive Conditions:       The company operates in businesses that are subject to intense competitive pressures. The company's
businesses face a significant number of competitors, ranging from some of the world's largest global enterprises to an increasing number of relatively small, rapidly growing and highly specialized
organizations. The company believes that its combination of technology, performance, quality, reliability, price and the breadth of products and service offerings are important competitive factors.
Intense competitive pressures could affect prices or demand for the company's products and services, resulting in reduced profit margins and/or loss of market opportunity. Unlike   

  12  

many
of its competitors, the company has a broad set of capabilities and businesses and must allocate resources across these businesses while competing with companies that specialize in one or more of
these product lines. As a result, the company may not fund or invest in certain of its businesses to the same degree that its competitors do, and these competitors may have greater financial,
technical and marketing resources available to them than the businesses against which they compete.   

           Volatility of Stock Price:       The company's stock price is affected by a number of factors, including quarterly variations in
financial results, the competitive landscape, general economic and market conditions and estimates and projections by the investment community. As a result, like other technology companies, the
company's stock price is subject to significant volatility.   

           Dependence on Key Personnel and Reliance on Critical Skills:       Much of the future success of the company depends on the
continued service, availability and integrity of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff resources. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are in high demand
and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers retire. In addition,
companies in the information technology and services industry whose employees accept positions with IBM may claim that IBM has interfered with noncompete obligations of their former employees, engaged
in unfair hiring practices or that the employment of these persons by IBM would involve the disclosure or use of trade secrets. Any such claims could limit or prevent IBM from hiring employees or
cause it to incur liability for damages or substantial costs in defending the company or its employees against these claims, whether or not they have merit. Further, many of IBM's key personnel
receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the company's use, and the value, of the company's
equity awards, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation.   

           Relationships with Critical Suppliers:       IBM's business employs a wide variety of components, supplies, services and raw
materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of the company's businesses rely on single or a limited number of suppliers, although the company makes every effort to
assure that alternative sources are available if the need arises. The failure of the company's suppliers to deliver components, supplies, services and raw materials in sufficient quantities and in a
timely manner could adversely affect the company's business. In addition, any defective components, supplies or materials, or inadequate services, received from suppliers could reduce the reliability
of the company's products and services and harm the company's reputation.   

           Currency and Customer Financing Risks:       The company derives a significant percentage of its revenues from its affiliates
operating in local currency environments and those results are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies and the U.S. dollar. Further, inherent in the company's
customer financing business are risks related to the concentration of credit, client creditworthiness, interest rate and currency fluctuations on the associated debt and liabilities, the determination
of residual values, and the financing of other than traditional IT assets. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative financial instruments.
Derivatives involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to manage its currency and customer financing risks
will be successful.   

           Customer Credit Risk on Receivables:       The company's client base includes many worldwide enterprises, from small and medium
businesses to the world's largest organizations and governments, with a significant portion of the company's revenue coming from global clients in the company's Financial Services, Public, and Small
and Medium business sectors. The company's financial performance is exposed to a wide variety of industry sector dynamics worldwide. Most of the company's sales are on an open credit basis and the
company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients'   

  13  

financial
conditions. The company maintains reserves that it believes are adequate to cover exposure for any uncollectible receivables and regularly reviews such reserves by considering factors such
as write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts. If the company becomes aware of additional information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer,
or, if future actual default rates on receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the company may have to adjust its reserves, which could affect the company's consolidated net
income in the period the adjustments are made.   

           Distribution Channels:       The company offers its products directly and through a variety of third party distributors and
resellers. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and resellers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring its products to market.   

           Acquisitions and Alliances:       The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into alliances from
time to time. Acquisitions and alliances present significant challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will
manage acquisitions and alliances successfully. The related risks include the company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings, as well as the
failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business.   

           Risk Factors Related to IBM Securities:       The company and its subsidiaries issues debt securities in the worldwide capital
markets from time to time, with a variety of different maturities and in different currencies. The value of the company's debt securities fluctuates based on many factors, including, the methods
employed for calculating principal and interest, the maturity of the securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities outstanding, the redemption features for the securities, the level,
direction and volatility of interest rates, changes in exchange rates, exchange controls, governmental and stock exchange regulations and other factors over which the company has little or no control.
The company's ability to pay interest and repay the principal for its debt securities is dependent upon its ability to manage its business operations, as well as the other risks described under this
Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors". There can be no assurance that the company will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.   

          The
company also issues its common stock from time to time in connection with various compensation plans, contributions to its pension plan and certain acquisitions. The market price of
IBM common stock is subject to significant volatility, due to factors described under Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors", including the section entitled "Volatility of Stock Price", as well as
economic and geopolitical conditions generally, trading volumes, speculation by the press or investment community about the company's financial condition, and other factors, many of which are beyond
the company's control. Since the market price of IBM's common stock fluctuates significantly, stockholders may not be able to sell the company's stock at attractive prices.   

          In
addition, changes by any rating agency to the company's outlook or credit ratings can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both the company's debt and equity securities. The
company does not make a market in either its debt or equity securities and cannot provide any assurances with respect to the liquidity or value of such securities.   

  14  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments:            

          Not applicable.   

Item 2. Properties:            

          At December 31, 2007, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the United States had aggregate floor space of 20 million square feet, of
which 16 million was owned and 4 million was leased. Of these amounts, 2 million square feet was vacant and 1 million square feet was being leased to non-IBM
businesses. Similar facilities in 8 other countries totaled 6 million square feet, of which 2 million was owned and 4 million was leased. Of these amounts, 1 million
square feet was being leased to non-IBM businesses.   

          Although
improved production techniques, productivity gains and infrastructure reduction actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space, continuous maintenance and upgrading
of facilities is essential to maintain technological leadership, improve productivity and meet customer demand.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings:            

          Refer to note N, "Contingencies and Commitments" on pages 94 through 96 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by
reference.   

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders:            

          Not applicable.   

PART II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities:   

Refer
to pages 121 and 124 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this item.   

          IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Chicago Stock Exchange. There were 583,774 common stockholders of record at February 8, 2008.   

          Refer
to Item 12, under the caption "Equity Compensation Plan Information" on pages 18 to 20, for additional information on the company's equity compensation plans.   

  15  

The
following table provides information relating to the company's repurchase of common stock for the fourth quarter of 2007.   

(1)    On
April 24, 2007, the Board of Directors authorized $15.0 billion in funds for use in the company's common stock repurchase program; the company stated that it may repurchase
shares on the open market or in private transactions, including structured or accelerated transactions, depending on market conditions. See note M "Stockholders' Equity Activity" on
pages 92 through 93 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report for additional information regarding the accelerated share repurchase agreements executed in the second quarter of 2007. The common stock
repurchase program does not have an expiration date. As discussed in note M "Stockholders' Equity Activity" on pages 92 through 93 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report, the company does not
expect the accelerated share repurchase agreements settlement periods to conclude until March 2008. On December 3, 2007, the company announced that it plans to repurchase up to
$1 billion of its outstanding common stock in open market transactions by the end of February 2008. This table does not include shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in connection with
cashless exercises of employee stock options or shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee equity awards.
      (2)    The
remaining authorization may be used for the settlement of the accelerated share repurchase agreements or additional common stock repurchases. As discussed in note M
"Stockholders' Equity Activity" on pages 92 through 93 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report, the company elected to make a cash payment for the first and second settlements under the accelerated share
repurchase agreements in September and December 2007, resulting in a reduction of $151.8 million and $253.1 million, respectively, to the remaining authorization.    

Item 6. Selected Financial Data:            

          Refer to pages 120 and 121 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:            

Refer to pages 14 through 55 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks:            

          Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on pages 49 and 50 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:            

Refer to pages 58 through 119 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the Financial Statement
Schedule on page S-1 of this Form.   

  16  

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure:   

          Not
applicable.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures:            

          The company's management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the company's
disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the
company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   

          Refer
to "Report of Management" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on pages 56 and 57 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference. There has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to material affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information:            

          Not Applicable.   

PART III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:            

Refer to the information under the captions "Election of Directors for a Term of One Year," "General Information Committees of the Board," "Audit
Committee" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to
stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to Item 1 of this
Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 22, 2008)" on page 9 for additional information on the company's executive officers.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information 2007 Director Compensation Narrative," "2007 Director Compensation Table," "2007
Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "2007 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," "2007 Summary Compensation Table," "2007 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table," "2007 Outstanding Equity
Awards at Fiscal Year-End Narrative," "2007 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table," "2007 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table," "2007 Retention Plan
Narrative," "2007 Retention Plan Table," "2007 Pension Benefits Narrative," "2007 Pension Benefits Table," "2007 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Narrative," "2007 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation
Table," "2007 Potential Payments Upon Termination Narrative," and "2007 Potential Payments Upon Termination Table," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation"
and "2007 Report of the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  17  

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters:            

          Refer to the information under the caption "Ownership of Securities Common Stock and Stock-Based Holdings of Directors and Executive Officers" in
IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29,
2008, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

   Equity Compensation Plan Information     

n/a is not applicable 
 
RSUs Restricted Stock Units, including Retention Restricted Stock Units 
PSUs Performance Share Units 
DCEAP Shares Shares under the DCEAP (see plan description below)   

(1)    In
connection with 26 acquisition transactions, 2,090,910 additional options were outstanding as a result of the company's assumption of options granted by the acquired entities. The
weighted-average exercise price of these options was $79. The company has not made, and will not make, any future grants or awards of equity securities under the plans of these acquired companies.
      (2)    The
numbers included for PSUs in column (a) above reflect the maximum number payout. Assuming target number payout, the number of securities to be issued upon the exercise of
PSUs for equity compensation plans approved by security holders is 1,386,629 and for equity compensation plans not approved by security holders is 1,397,194. For additional information about PSUs,
including payout calculations, refer to the information under "2007 Summary Compensation Table Narrative" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange    
  18  

Commission
and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008.   

The
material features of each equity compensation plan under which equity securities are authorized for issuance that was adopted without stockholder approval are described below:   

   2001 LONG       TERM PERFORMANCE PLAN     

          The 2001 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "2001 Plan") is used to fund awards for employees other than senior executives of the company. Awards for
senior executives of the company will continue to be funded from the stockholder-approved 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "1999 Plan"). Otherwise, the provisions of the 2001 Plan are
identical to the 1999 Plan, including the type of awards that may be granted under the plan (stock options, restricted stock unit awards and long-term performance incentive awards).   

          The
2001 Plan is administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, and that Committee may delegate to officers of the company
certain of its duties, powers and authority. Payment of awards may be made in the form of cash, stock or combinations thereof and may be deferred with Committee approval. Awards are not transferable
or assignable except (i) by law, will or the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) as a result of the disability of the recipient, or (iii) with the approval of the Committee.   

          If
the employment of a participant terminates, other than as a result of the death or disability of the participant, all unexercised, deferred and unpaid Awards shall be canceled
immediately, unless the Award Agreement provides otherwise. In the event of the death of a participant or in the event a participant is deemed by the company to be disabled and eligible for benefits
under the terms of the IBM Long-Term Disability Plan (or any successor plan or similar plan of another employer), the participant's estate, beneficiaries or representative, as the case may
be, shall have the rights and duties of the participant under the applicable Award Agreement. In addition, unless the Award Agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel, rescind, suspend,
withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred Awards at any time if the participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Award Agreement and the
Plan. In addition,
Awards are cancelled if the participant engages in any conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of the company.   

   PWCC ACQUISITION LONG       TERM PERFORMANCE PLAN     

          The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan (the "PWCC Plan") was adopted by the Board of Directors in connection with the company's
acquisition of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting ("PwCC") from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as announced on October 1, 2002. The PWCC Plan has been and will continue to be used solely to
fund awards for employees of PwCC who have come over to the company as a result of the acquisition. Awards for senior executives of the company will not be funded from the PWCC Plan. The terms and
conditions of the PWCC Plan are substantively identical to the terms and conditions of the 2001 Plan, described above.   

   IBM DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND EQUITY AWARD PLAN     

          The IBM Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (the "DCEAP") was adopted in 1993. Under the DCEAP, non-management directors receive Promised Fee
Shares in connection with deferred annual retainer payments. Each Promised Fee Share is equal in value to one share of the company's common stock. Upon a director's retirement or other completion of
service as a director, all amounts deferred into Promised Fee Shares are payable in either cash and/or shares of the company's stock at the director's election. (For additional information about the
DCEAP, see 2007 Director Compensation Narrative in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and   

  19  

Exchange
Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008).   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information Board of Directors" and "General Information Certain Transactions and
Relationships" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held April 29, 2008, which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Audit and Non-Audit Fees" in IBM's
definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008,
all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

PART IV            

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules:            

(a)    The
following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.    Financial
statements from IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders which are incorporated herein by reference:    

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 57).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (page 58).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2007 and 2006 (page 59).   

Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (page 60).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Stockholders' Equity at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 (pages 61 through 63).   

  Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 64 through 119).   

2.    Financial
statement schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form:    

Page      
     
   Schedule 
Number    

26  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule.  

S-1  
     
  II  
     
  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.  

All
other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present, the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or the notes thereto.   

  20  

3.    Exhibits:    

Included
in this Form 10-K:   

10.1  

Forms of LTPP equity award agreements for (i) stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-settled restricted stock units, SARS, (ii) performance share units and (iii)
 retention restricted stock unit award. Terms and conditions document in connection with foregoing award agreements.  

12  

Computation of Ratio of Earnings From Continuing Operations to Fixed Charges.  

13  

IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, certain sections of which have been incorporated herein by reference.  

21  

Subsidiaries.  

23.1  

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.  

24.1  

Powers of Attorney.  

24.2  

Resolutions of the IBM Board of Directors authorizing execution of this report by Powers of Attorney.  

31.1  

Certification by CEO pursuant to Rule 13A-14(a) or 15D-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

31.2  

Certification by CFO pursuant to Rule 13A-14(a) or 15D-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.1  

Certification by CEO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

32.2  

Certification by CFO pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.  

Not
included in this Form 10-K:   

21  

The IBM 1994 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, filed on May 24, 1994 with Registration Statement No. 33-53777 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 31, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

December 2005 Amendments to the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, a compensatory plan, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 333-33692
on Form S-8, dated March 31, 2000, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The IBM Supplemental Executive Retention Plan, a compensatory plan, effective July 1, 1999, as amended through February 17, 2006 filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and is hereby
incorporated by reference.  

December 2005 Amendments to the IBM Savings Plan, a compensatory plan, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, incorporated by reference to Registration Statement 333-09055 on Form S-8, dated
July 29, 1996, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Attachment 1 to Form 8-K dated April 6, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under the caption "General Information 2007 Director Compensation" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008, and are hereby incorporated by reference.  

IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan is Exhibit X to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The IBM Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan is Appendix B to IBM's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 14, 1995, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is contained in Registration Statement No. 333-33692 as Exhibit 4 on Form S-8, filed March 31, 2000, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The IBM Extended Tax Deferred Savings Plan is Exhibit X to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The IBM Savings Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005, which plan was previously filed as Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement No. 333-09055 on Form S-8 dated July 29, 1996. Such
plan, as amended, was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Amendments to the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, a compensatory plan, which plan was previously filed as Exhibit 4 to Registration Statement No. 333-33692 on Form S-8 dated March 31, 2000. Such plan, as amended, was
filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

22  

The IBM 2003 Employees Stock Purchase Plan, as amended through April 1, 2005, which plan was previously filed as Appendix A to IBM's definitive proxy statement dated March 10, 2003. Such plan, as amended, was filed as Exhibit 10.3
to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The $10,000,000,000 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006, among International Business Machines Corporation, each Subsidiary Borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to the Credit
Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders, and Citibank, N.A. as Syndication Agent was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated June 29, 2006, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The $11,500,000,000 Term Loan Agreement dated as of May 25, 2007, among IBM International Group B.V. (the "Borrower"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto (the "Lenders"), Morgan Stanley Senior
Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as Documentation Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., as Syndication Agent, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 25, 2007, among International Business Machines Corporation ("   Guarantor   "), for the benefit of the Lenders from time to time party to the $11,500,000,000 Term
Loan Agreement, and in favor of Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by
reference.  

The Accelerated Share Repurchase Schedule of Standard Terms and Conditions, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Form of Parent Guarantee Agreement for Accelerated Stock Repurchase, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 7.50% Debentures due 2013 are Exhibits 4(a) through 4(l) to Registration Statement No. 33-49475(1) on Form S-3, filed May 24, 1993, and are hereby incorporated by
reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 8.375% Debentures due 2019 are Exhibits 4(a)(b)(c) and (d) to Registration Statement 33-31732 on Form S-3, filed on October 24, 1989, and are hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of holders of the 7.00% Debentures due 2025 and the 7.00% Debentures due 2045 are Exhibit 2 and 3 to Form 8-K, filed on October 30, 1995, and are hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instrument defining the rights of holders of the 7.125% Debentures due 2096 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K/A, filed on December 6, 1996, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 6.22% Debentures due 2027 is Exhibit 3 to Form 8-K, filed on August 1, 1997, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

23  

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 6.50% Debentures due 2028 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, filed on January 8, 1998, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 5.375% Notes due 2009 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, filed on January 29, 1999, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 4.00% Notes due 2011 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, filed on November 9, 2006, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 4.95% Notes due 2011 is Exhibit 2 to Form 8-K, filed on March 21, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008, certain sections of which have been
incorporated herein by reference.  

24  

SIGNATURES            

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION    (Registrant)  

By:  
   
/s/    SAMUEL J. PALMISANO            Samuel J. Palmisano     Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 26, 2008   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature    
     
   Title    
     
   Date    

/s/    MARK LOUGHRIDGE            Mark Loughridge  
     
  Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  
     
  February 26, 2008  

/s/    TIMOTHY S. SHAUGHNESSY            Timothy S. Shaughnessy  

Vice President and Controller  

February 26, 2008  

Cathleen Black             
William R. Brody             
Kenneth I. Chenault             
Juergen Dormann             
Michael L. Eskew             
Shirley Ann Jackson           
Minoru Makihara           
Lucio A. Noto           
James W. Owens             
Joan E. Spero             
Sidney Taurel             
Lorenzo H. Zambrano  

Director           
Director           
Director           
Director             
Director             
Director             
Director             
Director           
Director           
Director           
Director            
Director  

By:             

/s/ Daniel E. O'Donnell    Daniel E. O'Donnell     Attorney-in-fact    
February 26, 2008  

25  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE            

  To
the Stockholders and Board of Directors of 
International Business Machines Corporation:   

          Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 26, 2008
appearing in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders of International Business Machines Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial
Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.   

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
New York, New York 
February 26, 2008   

  26  

SCHEDULE II            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES   For the Years Ended December 31:   (Dollars in Millions)

*    Additions
for Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Allowance for Inventory Losses are charged to expense and cost accounts, respectively, while Revenue Based Provisions are charged to
revenue accounts.
      **    Primarily
comprises currency translation adjustments.    
  S-1  

EXHIBIT INDEX            

(10)  

Material contracts  

The IBM 1999 Long Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-30424 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, and is
hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 2001 Long Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-87708 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, and is
hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-102872 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, filed on July 15, 1997 with Registration Statement No. 333-31305 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 31, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1994 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, filed on May 24, 1994 with Registration Statement No. 33-53777 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 31, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Forms of LTPP equity award agreements for (i) stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-settled restricted stock units, SARS, (ii) performance share units and (iii) retention restricted stock unit award. Terms and
conditions document in connection with foregoing award agreements.*  

10.1  

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Attachment 1 to Form 8-K dated April 6, 2005, and is hereby incorporated by reference*  

Board of Directors compensatory plans as described under the caption "General Information 2007 Director Compensation" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in
connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 29, 2008, and are hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Supplemental Executive Retention Plan, a compensatory Plan, effective July 1, 1999, as amended through February 17, 2006 filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005, and is hereby
incorporated by reference*  

The $10,000,000,000 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006, among International Business Machines Corporation, each Subsidiary Borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties to the Credit
Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders, and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated June 29, 2006, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The $11,500,000,000 Term Loan Agreement dated as of May 25, 2007, among IBM International Group B.V. (the "Borrower"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto (the "Lenders"), Morgan Stanley
Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as Documentation Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., as Syndication Agent, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 25, 2007, among International Business Machines Corporation ("   Guarantor   "), for the benefit of the Lenders from time to time party to the $11,500,000,000 Term
Loan Agreement, and in favor of Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

The Accelerated Share Repurchase Schedule of Standard Terms and Conditions, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

Form of Parent Guarantee Agreement for Accelerated Stock Repurchase, filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.  

(11)  

Statement re computation of per share earnings  

The statement re computation of per share earnings is note R, "Earnings Per Share of Common Stock" on page 101 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, and is hereby incorporated by reference  

(12)  

Statement re computation of ratios  

12  

(13)  

Annual report to security holders**  

13  

(18)  

Letter re change in accounting principles  

Not applicable  

(19)  

Previously unfiled documents  

Not applicable  

(21)  

Subsidiaries of the registrant  

21  

(22)  

Published report regarding matters submitted to vote of security holders  

Not applicable  

(23.1)  

Consent of experts  

23.1  

(24.1)  

Powers of attorney  

24.1  

*    Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      **    The
Performance Graphs, set forth on page 122 of IBM's 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders, are deemed to be furnished but not filed.    

QuickLinks    
  PART I   

Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
  Item 2. Properties   
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
 
  PART II   
 
  Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks   
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
  Item 9B. Other Information   
 
  PART III   
 
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
 
  PART IV   
 
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

SIGNATURES   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE   

SCHEDULE II   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES For the Years Ended December 31: (Dollars in Millions)   

EXHIBIT INDEX   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 a2181836zex-10_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 10.1            

International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM")        Equity Award Agreement        

Plan   
     
   IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "Plan")   

Award Type   

[   Stock Options, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units, SARs   ]  

Purpose   

The purpose of this Award is to retain selected employees and executives. You recognize that this Award represents a potentially significant benefit to you and is awarded for the purpose stated here.  

Awarded to   
      
    Sample   

Home Country   
     
   United States (USA)   

Employee ID   
     
   SAMP002   

Award Agreement   

This Equity Award Agreement, together with the "Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Effective January 1, 2008" ("Terms and Conditions") document and the Plan [   http://w3-1.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   ], both of which are incorporated herein by reference, together constitute the entire agreement between you and IBM with respect to your Award. This Equity Award
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts or choice of law rules or principles.  

Grant   

Date of Grant: [   Month Date, Year   ] 
[Exercise Price:    $XX   ] 
Number of [   Options/Units/Shares/SARs   ] Awarded:    XX   

Vesting   

This Award vests as set forth below, subject to your continued employment with the Company as described in the Terms and Conditions document.  

Options/Units/Shares/SARs   
     
   Date   

[number of shares]  
     
  [month date, year]  

[number of shares]  
     
  [month date, year]  

Options expire, subject to the Terms and Conditions document, on:    [   month, date, year   ]  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award   

Please refer to the Terms and Conditions document [   http://w3-1.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   ] for an explanation of the terms and conditions applicable to your Award, including those relating
to:  

Cancellation and rescission of awards (also see below) 
   Jurisdiction, governing law, expenses and taxes 
   Non-solicitation of Company employees and clients, if applicable] 
   Treatment of your Award in the event of death or disability or leave of absence 
   Treatment of your Award upon termination of employment (including retirement or for cause)  

It is strongly recommended that you print the Terms and Conditions document for later reference.  

Cancellation and Rescission   

You understand that IBM may cancel, modify, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict this Award in accordance with the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, canceling or rescinding this Award if you render services for a
competitor prior to, or during the Rescission Period. You understand that the Rescission Period that has been established is 12 months. Refer to the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan for further details.  

Data Privacy, Electronic Delivery   

By accepting this Award, you agree that data necessary to administer this Award may be exchanged among IBM and its subsidiaries and affiliates as necessary, and with any vendor engaged by IBM to administer this Award, subject to the Terms and
Conditions document; you also consent to receiving information and materials in connection with this Award or any subsequent awards under IBM's long-term performance plans, including without limitation any prospectuses and plan documents, by any
means of electronic delivery available now and/or in the future (including without limitation by e-mail, by Web site access and/or by facsimile), such consent to remain in effect unless and until revoked in writing by you.  

Extraordinary Compensation   

Your participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of this Award is an extraordinary item of income, is not part of your normal or expected compensation and shall not be considered in calculating any severance, redundancy, end of service payments,
 bonus, long-service awards, pension, retirement or other benefits or similar payments. The Plan is discretionary in nature. This Award is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive additional awards or other
benefits in the future. Future grants, if any, are at the sole grace and discretion of IBM, including but not limited to, the timing of the grant, the number of units and vesting provisions. This Equity Award Agreement is not part of your employment
agreement, if any.  

Accept Your Award   

This Award is not considered valid unless and until you accept it. By pressing the Accept button below to accept your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Equity Award Agreement, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under
which this Award was granted and you agree (i) not to enter into any derivative transaction on IBM securities (e.g., any short sale, put, swap, forward, option, collar, etc.) to hedge your position with regard to this award or any
previously-granted outstanding awards (ii) to comply with the terms of the Plan, this Equity Award Agreement and the Terms and Conditions document, including those provisions relating to cancellation and rescission of awards and jurisdiction and
governing law and (iii) that by your acceptance of this Award, all awards previously granted to you under the Plan or other IBM Long-Term Performance Plans are subject to the "Cancellation and Rescission" section of this Agreement (unless your
previous award agreement(s) specified a longer Rescission Period, in which case such longer period will apply) and the "Cancellation and Rescission" section of the Terms and Conditions document.  

2  

International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM")        Equity Award Agreement        

Plan   
     
   IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "Plan")   

Award Type   
      
    Performance Share Units (PSUs)   

Purpose   

The purpose of this Award is to retain selected executives. You recognize that this Award represents a potentially significant benefit to you and is awarded for the purpose stated here.  

Awarded to   
      
    Sample   

Home Country   
     
   United States (USA)   

Employee ID   
     
   SAMP002   

Award Agreement   

This Equity Award Agreement, together with the "Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Effective January 1, 2008" ("Terms and Conditions") document and the Plan [   http://w3-1.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   ], both of which are incorporated herein by reference, together constitute the entire agreement between you and IBM with respect to your Award. This Equity Award
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts or choice of law rules or principles.  

Grant   
     
   Date of Grant   
     
   # PSUs Awarded   
     
   Performance Period   
     
   Date of Payout   

[month date, year]  
     
  [amount]  
     
  [dates]  
     
  [date]  

[month date, year]  
     
  [amount]  
     
  [dates]  
     
  [date]  

Vesting   

You can earn the PSUs awarded above based on IBM's performance in achieving cumulative business targets of earnings-per-share and cash flow, weighted  80 / 20  respectively, over the 3-year Performance Period applicable to the
award. Performance against each of the targets will be subject to separate payout calculations according to the following table (which will be applied separately for each award of PSUs listed above):  

Payout of Awards   
     
  On the Date of Payout, the Company shall either (a) deliver to you a number of shares of Capital Stock equal to the number of your earned PSUs, or (b) make a cash payment to you equal to the value of your earned
PSUs at the end of the Performance Period, in either case, net of any applicable tax withholding, and the respective PSUs shall thereafter be canceled. If paid in cash, the value of each PSU at the end of the Performance Period shall be equal to the
average closing price, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), of one share of Capital Stock for the month of January following the end of the Performance Period.  

All payouts under this Award are subject to the provisions of the Plan, this Agreement and the Terms and Conditions document, including those relating to the cancellation and rescission of awards.  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award   

Please refer to the Terms and Conditions document [   http://w3-1.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   ] for an explanation of the terms and conditions applicable to your Award, including those relating
to:  

Cancellation and rescission of awards (also see below) 
   Jurisdiction, governing law, expenses and taxes 
   Non-solicitation of Company employees and clients, if applicable  

It is strongly recommended that you print the Terms and Conditions document for later reference.  

Cancellation and Rescission   

You understand that IBM may cancel, modify, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict this Award in accordance with the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, canceling or rescinding this Award if you render services for a
competitor prior to, or during the Rescission Period. You understand that the Rescission Period that has been established is 12 months. Refer to the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan for further details.  

Data Privacy, Electronic Delivery   

By accepting this Award, you agree that data necessary to administer this Award may be exchanged among IBM and its subsidiaries and affiliates as necessary, and with any vendor engaged by IBM to administer this Award, subject to the Terms and
Conditions document; you also consent to receiving information and materials in connection with this Award or any subsequent awards under IBM's long-term performance plans, including without limitation any prospectuses and plan documents, by any
means of electronic delivery available now and/or in the future (including without limitation by e-mail, by Web site access and/or by facsimile), such consent to remain in effect unless and until revoked in writing by you.  

Extraordinary Compensation   

Your participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of this Award is an extraordinary item of income, is not part of your normal or expected compensation and shall not be considered in calculating any severance, redundancy, end of service payments,
 bonus, long-service awards, pension, retirement or other benefits or similar payments. The Plan is discretionary in nature. This Award is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive additional awards or other
benefits in the future. Future grants, if any, are at the sole grace and discretion of IBM, including but not limited to, the timing of the grant, the number of units and vesting provisions. This Equity Award Agreement is not part of your employment
agreement, if any.  

Accept Your Award   

This Award is not considered valid unless and until you accept it. By pressing the Accept button below to accept your Award, you acknowledge having received and read this Equity Award Agreement, the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan under
which this Award was granted and you agree (i) not to enter into any derivative transaction on IBM securities (e.g., any short sale, put, swap, forward, option, collar, etc.) to hedge your position with regard to this award or any
previously-granted outstanding awards (ii) to comply with the terms of the Plan, this Equity Award Agreement and the Terms and Conditions document, including those provisions relating to cancellation and rescission of awards and (iii) that
by your acceptance of this Award, all awards previously granted to you under the Plan or other IBM Long-Term Performance Plans are subject to the "Cancellation and Rescission" section of this Agreement (unless your previous award agreement(s)
specified a longer Rescission Period, in which case such longer period will apply) and the "Cancellation and Rescission" section of the Terms and Conditions document.  

2  

International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM")        Equity Award Agreement        

Plan   
     
   IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "Plan")   

Award Type   
      
    Retention Restricted Stock Unit Award (RRSU)   

Purpose   

The purpose of this Award is to retain selected executives. You recognize that this Award represents a potentially significant benefit to you and is awarded for the purpose stated here.  

Awarded to   
  Home Country   
      
    Sample   
  United States (USA)   

Employee ID   
     
   SAMP002   

Award Agreement   

This Equity Award Agreement, together with the "Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Effective January 1, 2008" ("Terms and Conditions") document and the Plan [   http://w3-1.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   ], both of which are incorporated herein by reference, together constitute the entire agreement between you and IBM with respect to your Award. This Equity Award
Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts or choice of law rules or principles.  

Grant   

Date of Grant: [   Month Date, Year   ] 
Number of Units Awarded:    XX   

Vesting   

This Award vests as set forth below, subject to your continued employment with the Company as described in the Terms and Conditions document.  

Units   
     
   Date   

[amount   ]  
     
   [month date, year   ]  

[amount   ]  
     
   [month date, year   ]  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award   

Please refer to the Terms and Conditions document [   http://w3-1.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   ] for an explanation of the terms and conditions applicable to your Award, including those relating
to:  

Cancellation and rescission of awards (also see below) 
   Jurisdiction, governing law, expenses and taxes 
   Non-solicitation of Company employees and clients, if applicable 
   Treatment of your Award in the event of death, disability, leave of absence or for cause 
   Treatment of your Award upon termination of employment (including retirement)  

It is strongly recommended that you print the Terms and Conditions document for later reference.  

Cancellation and Rescission   

You understand that IBM may cancel, modify, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict this Award in accordance with the terms of the Plan, including, without limitation, canceling or rescinding this Award if you render services for a
competitor prior to, or during the Rescission Period. You understand that the Rescission Period that has been established is three years. Refer to the Terms and Conditions document and the Plan for further details.  

Data Privacy, Electronic Delivery   

By accepting this Award, you agree that data necessary to administer this Award may be exchanged among IBM and its subsidiaries and affiliates as necessary, and with any vendor engaged by IBM to administer this Award, subject to the Terms and
Conditions document; you also consent to receiving information and materials in connection with this Award or any subsequent awards under IBM's long-term performance plans, including without limitation any prospectuses and plan documents, by any
means of electronic delivery available now and/or in the future (including without limitation by e-mail, by Web site access and/or by facsimile), such consent to remain in effect unless and until revoked in writing by you.  

Extraordinary Compensation   

Your participation in the Plan is voluntary. The value of this Award is an extraordinary item of income, is not part of your normal or expected compensation and shall not be considered in calculating any severance, redundancy, end of service payments,
 bonus, long-service awards, pension, retirement or other benefits or similar payments. The Plan is discretionary in nature. This Award is a one-time benefit that does not create any contractual or other right to receive additional awards or other
benefits in the future. Future grants, if any, are at the sole grace and discretion of IBM, including but not limited to, the timing of the grant, the number of units and vesting provisions. This Equity Award Agreement is not part of your employment
agreement, if any.  

Accept Your Award   

This Award is not considered valid unless and until you accept it. By pressing the Accept button below to accept your Award, you agree (i) not to enter into any derivative transaction on IBM securities (e.g., any short sale, put, swap,
forward, option, collar, etc.) to hedge your position with regard to this award or any previously-granted outstanding awards and (ii) you acknowledge having received and read this Equity Award Agreement, the Terms and Conditions document and the
Plan under which this Award was granted and you agree to comply with the terms of the Plan, this Equity Award Agreement and the Terms and Conditions document, including those provisions relating to cancellation and rescission of awards.  

2  

IBM     

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR EQUITY   AWARD: EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008        

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award        Table of Contents            

Page    

1. Introduction   
      
    2   

2. How to Use This Document   
      
    2   

3. Definition of Terms   
      
    3   

4. Provisions that apply to all Award types and all countries   
      
    4   

5. Provisions that apply to all Award types but not all countries   
      
    5   

6. Provisions that apply to specific Award types for all countries   

a. Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") including Cash-Settled RSUs   

6  

i. All RSUs   

ii. RSUs Other Than Cash-Settled RSUs   

iii. Cash-Settled RSUs   

b. Restricted Stock   

8  

c. Stock Options ("Options") and Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs")   

9  

i. All Option and SAR Awards   

ii. All SAR Awards   

iii. Buy-First Executive Equity Program: Option and SAR Awards   

iv. Banded Executive Option Awards   

d. Performance Share Units ("PSUs")   

13  

7. Provisions that apply to specific countries   
      
    14   

a. India   

b. Slovenia   

1  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award            

Introduction     

          This document provides you with the terms and conditions of your Awards that are in addition to the terms and conditions contained in the Equity Award Agreement
for your specific Award(s). All terms and conditions, whether contained in this document and/or the Equity Award Agreement apply to all Awards granted on or after January 1, 2008. Also, all
Awards are subject to the terms and conditions in the governing plan document; the applicable document is indicated in the Equity Award Agreement and can be found at     http://w3.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp/eq_prospectus.shtml   .   

          As
an Award recipient, you can see a personalized summary of all your outstanding equity grants in the "Personal statement" section of the IBM executive compensation web site
(   http://w3.ibm.com/hr/exec/comp   ). This site also contains other information about long-term incentive awards, including copies of the
prospectus (the governing plan document). If you have additional questions and you are based in the U.S., you can call the Employee Service Center at 800-796-9876 (or
919-784-8646) weekdays, from 8 a.m. to 8 p.m. Eastern time (TTY available at 800-426-6537 from 8 a.m. to 6 p.m. weekdays).
You may also contact the Compensation Program Manager for your unit or your HR Partner.   

          Smith
Barney currently administers these Awards on IBM's behalf. You can access your equity awards, view your account and transaction history and model transactions on the Smith Barney
web site at    https://www.benefitaccess.com    (for security reasons, you will need to register for a password first). You can also contact Smith Barney by
calling 1-212-615-7841 (or from within the U.S. at 1-800-IBM-4292) and speak with a Smith Barney representative.   

   How to Use This Document     

          Terms and conditions that apply to all awards in all countries can be found on page 4. Review these in addition to any award- or country-specific terms and
conditions that may be listed. Once you have reviewed these general terms, check for any award-specific and/or country-specific terms that apply to your Equity Award Agreement.   

  2  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award:   Definition of Terms            

          The following are defined terms in the Long-Term Performance Plan and/or your Equity Award Agreement. These are provided for your information. Please
see the Plan prospectus and your Equity Award Agreement for more details.   

"Awards" The
grant of any form of stock option, stock appreciation right, stock or cash award, whether granted singly, in combination or in tandem, to a Participant pursuant
to such terms, conditions, performance requirements, limitations and restrictions as the Committee may establish in order to fulfill the objectives of the Plan.   

          "Board" The
Board of Directors of International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM").   

          "Capital
Stock" Authorized and issued or unissued Capital Stock of IBM, at such par value as may be established from time to time.   

          "Committee" The
committee designated by the Board to administer the Plan.   

          "Company" IBM
and its affiliates and subsidiaries including subsidiaries of subsidiaries and partnerships and other business ventures in which IBM has an equity interest.   

          "Equity
Award Agreement" The document provided to the Participant which provides the grant details.   

          "Fair
Market Value" The average of the high and low prices of Capital Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for the date in question, provided that, if no sales of Capital
Stock were made on said exchange on that date, the average of the high and low prices of Capital Stock as reported for the most recent preceding day on which sales of Capital Stock were made on said
exchange.   

          "Participant" An
individual to whom an Award has been made under the Plan. Awards may be made to any employee of, or any other individual providing services to, the Company.
However, incentive stock options may be granted only to individuals who are employed by IBM or by a subsidiary corporation (within the meaning of section 424(f) of the Code) of IBM, including a
subsidiary that becomes such after the adoption of the Plan.   

"Plan" Any
IBM Long-Term Performance Plan.   

  3  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award:   Provisions that apply to all Award types and all countries            

          The following terms apply to all countries and for all Award types (Restricted Stock Units, Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock,
Stock Options, Stock Appreciation Rights and Performance Share Units).   

   Cancellation and Rescission     

          All determinations regarding enforcement, waiver or modification of the cancellation and rescission and other provisions of the Plan and your Equity Award
Agreement (including the provisions relating to termination of employment, death and disability) shall be made in IBM's sole discretion.
Determinations made under your Equity Award Agreement and the Plan need not be uniform and may be made selectively among individuals, whether or not such individuals are similarly situated.   

You
agree that the cancellation and rescission provisions of the Plan and your Equity Award Agreement are reasonable and agree not to challenge the reasonableness of such provisions,
even where forfeiture of your Award is the penalty for violation.   

   Jurisdiction, Governing Law, Expenses and Taxes     

          Your Equity Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York, without regard to conflicts or choice of law rules or principles. You submit
to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of New York, County of Westchester, to resolve all issues that may arise out of or relate to your Equity Award Agreement.   

If
any court of competent jurisdiction finds any provision of your Equity Award Agreement, or portion thereof, to be unenforceable, that provision shall be enforced to the maximum extent
permissible so as to effect the intent of the parties, and the remainder of your Equity Award Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.   

          If
you or the Company brings an action to enforce your Equity Award Agreement and the Company prevails, you will pay all costs and expenses incurred by the Company in connection with
that action and in connection with collection, including reasonable attorneys' fees.   

If
the Company, in its sole discretion, determines that it has incurred or will incur any obligation to withhold taxes as a result of your Award, the Company may withhold the number of
shares that it determines is required to satisfy such liability and/or the Company may withhold amounts from other compensation to the extent required to satisfy such liability under federal, state,
provincial, local, foreign or other tax laws. To the extent that such amounts are not withheld, you will pay to the Company any amount demanded by the Company for the purpose of satisfying such
liability.   

  4  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award:   Provisions that apply to all Award types but not all countries            

          The following provision applies to all Award types (Restricted Stock Units, Cash-Settled Restricted Stock Units, Restricted Stock, Stock Options,
Stock Appreciation Rights and Performance Share Units) granted to all individuals in all countries except those with a home country of Latin America, specifically: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile,
Columbia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Uruguay, and Venezuela.   

   Non-Solicitation     

          In consideration of your Award, you agree that during your employment with the Company and for two years following the termination of your employment for any
reason, you will not directly or indirectly hire, solicit or make an offer to any employee of the Company to be employed or perform services outside of the Company. Also, you agree that during your
employment with the Company and for one year following the termination of your employment for any reason, you will not directly or indirectly, solicit, for competitive business purposes, any customer
of the Company with which you were involved as part of your job responsibilities during the last year of your employment with the Company. By accepting your Award, you acknowledge that the Company
would suffer irreparable harm if you fail to comply with the foregoing, and that the Company would be entitled to any appropriate relief, including money damages, equitable relief and attorneys' fees.   

  5  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award:   Provisions that apply to specific Award types for all countries            

a.     Restricted Stock Units ("RSUs") including Cash-Settled RSUs     

i.      All RSUs      

    Termination of Employment including Death, Disability and Leave of Absence     

    Termination of Employment     

In the event you cease to be an employee (other than on account of death or becoming disabled as described in Section 12 of the Plan) prior to the Vesting
Date(s) set in your Equity Award Agreement, all then unvested RSUs under your Award shall be canceled.   

Death or Disability     

Upon your death all RSUs covered by this Agreement shall vest immediately and your Vesting Date shall be your date of death. If you become disabled as described
in Section 12 of the Plan, your RSUs shall continue to vest according to the terms of your Award if you remain continuously employed by the Company while you are disabled.   

Leave of Absence     

In the event of a management approved leave of absence, any unvested RSUs shall continue to vest as if you were an active employee of the Company, subject to the
terms in this document and your Equity Award Agreement.   

ii.     RSUs Other Than Cash-Settled RSUs      

Settlement of Award     

Subject to Sections 12 and 13 of the Plan and the paragraph entitled "Termination of Employment including Death, Disability and Leave of Absence" above,
upon the Vesting Date(s), or as soon thereafter as may be practicable but in no event later than March 15 of the following calendar year, IBM shall make a payment to Participant in shares of
Capital Stock equal to the number of vested RSUs, net of any applicable tax withholding requirements, and the respective RSUs shall thereupon be canceled. RSUs are not shares of Capital Stock and do
not convey any stockholder rights.   

Dividend Equivalents     

IBM shall not pay dividend equivalents on cash or stock settled unvested RSU awards.   

  6  

iii.    Cash-Settled RSUs      

    Settlement of Award     

Subject to Sections 12 and 13 of the Plan and the paragraph entitled "Termination of Employment including Death, Disability and Leave of Absence" above,
upon the Vesting Date(s), or as soon thereafter as may be practicable but in no event later than March 15 of the following calendar year, the Company shall make a payment to Participant in cash
equal to the Fair Market Value of the vested RSUs, net of any applicable tax withholding requirements, and the respective RSUs shall thereupon be canceled. Fair Market Value will be calculated in your
home country currency at the exchange rate on the applicable Vesting Date using a commercially reasonable measure of exchange rate. RSUs are not shares of Capital Stock and do not convey any
stockholder rights.   

Dividend Equivalents     

IBM shall not pay dividend equivalents on cash or stock settled unvested RSU awards.   

  7  

b.     Restricted Stock     

Settlement of Award     

Subject to Sections 12 and 13 of the Plan and the paragraph entitled "Termination of Employment including Death, Disability or Leave of Absence" below,
upon the Vesting Date(s), or as soon thereafter as may be practicable but in no event later than March 15 of the following calendar year, the shares of Restricted Stock awarded under your
Equity Award Agreement will be deliverable to you.   

Termination of Employment including Death, Disability and Leave of Absence     

    Termination of Employment     

In the event you cease to be an employee (other than on account of death or becoming disabled as described in Section 12 of the Plan) prior to the Vesting
Date(s) in your Equity Award Agreement, all then unvested shares of Restricted Stock under your Award shall be canceled.   

Death or Disability     

Upon your death all unvested shares of Restricted Stock covered by your Equity Award Agreement shall vest immediately and your Vesting Date shall be your date of
death. If you become disabled as described in Section 12 of the Plan, your unvested shares of Restricted Stock shall continue to vest according to the terms of your Equity Award Agreement if
you remain continuously employed by the Company while you are disabled.   

Leave of Absence     

In the event of a management approved leave of absence, any unvested shares of Restricted Stock shall continue to vest as if you were an active employee of the
Company, subject to the terms in this document and your Equity Award Agreement.   

Dividends and Other Rights     

During the period that the Restricted Stock is held by IBM hereunder, such stock will remain on the books of IBM in your name, may be voted by you, and any
applicable dividends shall be paid to you. Shares issued in stock splits or similar events which relate to Restricted Stock then held by IBM in your name shall be issued in your name but shall be held
by IBM under the terms hereof.   

  8  

Transferability     

Shares of Restricted Stock awarded under your Equity Award Agreement cannot be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered prior to the vesting
of your Award as set forth in your Equity Award Agreement and any such sale, assignment, transfer, pledge or encumbrance, or any attempt thereof, shall be void.   

   c.     Stock Options ("Options") and Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs")     

i.      All Option and SAR Awards      

    Termination of Employment in the case of Death, Disability and Leave of Absence     

    Death or Disability     

In the event of your death, all Options or SARs shall become fully exercisable and remain exercisable for their full term.   

In
the event you become disabled (as described in Section 12 of the Plan), while employed by the Company, any unvested Options or SARs shall continue to vest and be exercisable as
if you were an active employee of the Company.   

Leave of Absence (other than Buy-First Executive Equity Program)     

In the event of a management approved leave of absence, any unvested Options or SARs shall continue to vest and be exercisable as if you were an active employee
of the Company, subject to the terms in this document and your Equity Award Agreement. If you return to active status, your Options or SARs will continue to vest and be exercisable in accordance with
their terms. If you do not return to active status, your termination date is your last day of active employment. Your unvested Options or SARs will be canceled immediately and your vested Options or
SARs will be canceled on the later of the 91 st  day following your last day of active employment or the date of the termination of your leave of absence.   

Termination of Employment for Cause     

If your employment terminates for cause, all exercisable and not exercisable Options or SARs are canceled immediately.   

  9  

ii.     All SAR Awards (Including Buy-First Executive Equity Program and Banded Executive Awards)      

Settlement of Award     

Upon exercise, the Company shall deliver an aggregate amount, in cash, equal to the excess of the Fair Market Value of a share of Capital Stock on the date of
exercise over the Exercise Price set forth in your Equity Award Agreement multiplied by the number of SARs exercised, net of any taxes. The value of the Award will be calculated in your home country
currency at the exchange rate on the date the Award becomes fully vested using a commercially reasonable measure of exchange rate.   

iii.    Buy-First Executive Equity Program: Option and SAR Awards      

    Termination of Employment other than for Death, Disability, Leave of Absence or for Cause     

    Termination of Employment     

In the event that your employment with the Company terminates prior to the Vesting Date (other than for cause, Death, or Disability):   

any
Options or SARs that are not exercisable as of the date your employment terminates shall be canceled immediately; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when
your employment terminates (other than for cause) after you have attained age 55, completed at least 15 years of service with the Company at the time of termination, and completed at least one
year of active service during the period between the Date of Grant and the Vesting Date (the "Vesting Period"), the Options or SARs granted hereunder will be prorated for the number of months
completed as an active executive during the Vesting Period, and the resulting prorated number of Options or SARs shall vest and be exercisable for the full term as in your Equity Award Agreement; and
           any
Options or SARs that are exercisable as of the date your employment terminates (other than for cause) will remain exercisable for 90 days (not three months) after
the date of termination, after which any unexercised Options or SARs are canceled; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when your employment terminates (other than for cause) after you
have attained age 55 and completed at least 15 years of service with the Company at the time of termination, any Options or SARs that are exercisable as of the date your employment terminates
shall remain exercisable for the full term as in your Equity Award Agreement.    

Leave of Absence     

In the event of a management approved leave of absence, any unvested Options or SARs shall continue to vest and be exercisable as if you were an   

  10  

active
employee of the Company, subject to the terms in this document and your Equity Award Agreement. If you return to active status, your Options or SARs will continue to vest and be exercisable in
accordance with their terms. If you do not return to active status,   

your
unvested Options or SARs will be canceled immediately; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when your employment terminates (other than for cause) after you
have attained age 55, completed at least 15 years of service with the Company at the time of termination, and completed at least one year of active service during the Vesting Period, the
Options or SARs granted hereunder will be prorated for the number of months completed as an active executive during the Vesting Period, and the resulting prorated number of Options or SARs shall vest
and be exercisable for the full term as in your Equity Award Agreement; and
           your
vested Options or SARs will be canceled on the later of the 91 st  day following your last day of active employment or the date of the termination of
your leave of absence; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when your employment terminates (other than for cause) after you have attained age 55 and completed at least 15 years of
service with the Company at the time of termination, any Options or SARs that are exercisable as of the date your employment terminates shall remain exercisable for the full term as in your Equity
Award Agreement.    
 
  11  

iv.    Banded Executive Option and SAR Awards      

    Termination of Employment other than for Death, Disability or for Cause     

    Termination of Employment     

If your employment terminates for any reason (other than for cause, Death, Disability or in the case of a management approved Leave of Absence as stated above):   

any
Options or SARs that are not exercisable as of the date your employment terminates shall be canceled immediately, and
           any
Options or SARs that are exercisable as of the date your employment terminates (other than for cause) will remain exercisable for 90 days (not three months) after
the date of termination, after which any unexercised Options or SARs are canceled; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when your employment with the Company terminates (other than for
cause) after you have attained age 55 and completed at least 15 years of service with the Company at the time of termination, any Options or SARs that are exercisable as of the date your
employment terminates shall remain exercisable for the full term as in your Equity Award Agreement.    

Leave of Absence     

In the event of a management approved leave of absence, any unvested Options or SARs shall continue to vest and be exercisable as if you were an active employee
of the Company, subject to the terms in this document and your Equity Award Agreement. If you return to active status, your Options or SARs will continue to vest and be exercisable in accordance with
their terms. If you do not return to active status,   

your
unvested Options or SARs will be canceled immediately; and
           your
vested Options or SARs will be canceled on the later of the 91 st  day following your last day of active employment or the date of the termination of
your leave of absence; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when your employment terminates (other than for cause) after you have attained age 55 and completed at least 15 years of
service with the Company at the time of termination, any Options or SARs that are exercisable as of the date your employment terminates shall remain exercisable for the full term as in your Equity
Award Agreement.    
 
  12  

d. Performance Share Units ("PSUs")      

Termination of Employment in the case of Death, Disability and Leave of Absence     

Termination of Employment     

If you cease to be an active, full-time employee for any reason (other than on account of death or becoming disabled as described in Section 12
of the Plan) before the Date of Payout, all PSUs are canceled immediately; provided, however, if you are a banded executive when your employment terminates (other than for cause) after you have
attained age 55, completed at least 15 years of service with the Company at the time of termination, and completed at least one year of active service during the period between the Date of
Grant and the PSU Vesting Date (the "PSU Vesting Period"), the PSUs granted hereunder will be prorated for the number of months completed as an active executive during the PSU Vesting Period, adjusted
for the performance score, and the resulting prorated number of PSUs shall be paid out at the end of the Performance Period based on IBM performance over the entire applicable Performance Period(s).   

Death or Disability     

In the event of your death or if you become disabled (as described in Section 12 of the Plan) prior to the Date of Payout, all PSUs shall be prorated and
the reduced number of PSUs will be earned and paid out at the end of the Performance Period based on IBM performance over the entire applicable Performance Period(s).   

  13  

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award:   Provisions that apply to specific countries            

   a.     India     

i.      All Awards      

Settlement of Awards     

There will, at no stage, be any remittance of foreign exchange from India on account of the exercise of Options or SARs or vesting of Restricted Stock, RSUs or
PSUs granted under your Award.   

          Vested
Options may be exercised through a cashless exercise procedure involving the simultaneous exercise of the Options and sale of the corresponding shares. The net sale proceeds
(minus exercise cost) will be remitted to India through normal channels and paid to you in local currency.   

          You
will be responsible to furnish the Agent's note to the Reserve Bank of India and advise them of the net income that has accrued to you as a result of the exercise and sale of Options
of exercise of SARs or vesting of Restricted Stocks, RSUs or PSUs granted under your Equity Award Agreement.   

          No
Options or SARs may be exercised if the Fair Market Value on such date is less than or equal to the exercise price.   

This
provision will apply to all awards previously granted to you under the Plan or prior IBM plans.   

   b.     Slovenia     

i.      All Option Awards      

    Remittance of Foreign Exchange     

There will, at no stage, be any remittance of foreign exchange from Slovenia on account of the exercise of Options granted under your Award. Vested options may be
exercised through a cashless exercise procedure involving the simultaneous exercise of the Options and sale of corresponding shares. The net sale proceeds (minus exercise cost) will be remitted to
Slovenia through normal channels and paid to you in local currency.   

  14  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 10.1   
 
  International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Equity Award Agreement   

International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Equity Award Agreement   

International Business Machines Corporation ("IBM") Equity Award Agreement   

TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF YOUR EQUITY AWARD: EFFECTIVE JANUARY 1, 2008   
 
  Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award Table of Contents   

Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award   
  Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Definition of Terms   
  Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Provisions that apply to all Award types and all countries   
  Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Provisions that apply to all Award types but not all countries   
  Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Provisions that apply to specific Award types for all countries   
 
  Terms and Conditions of Your Equity Award: Provisions that apply to specific countries   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-12>
 3
 a2181836zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 12            

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING   OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES   (Unaudited)            

(1)    Income
from continuing operations before income taxes excludes (a) amortization of capitalized interest and (b) the company's share in the income and losses of
less-than-fifty percent owned affiliates.    

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 12   
 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES (Unaudited)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 4
 a2181836zex-13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Report of Financials   

International
Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

Management
  Discussion   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Looking Forward   

42  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

44  

Critical Accounting Estimates   

47  

Currency Rate Fluctuations   

49  

Market Risk   

49  

Financing Risks   

50  

Employees and Related Workforce   

50  

Global Financing  

50  

Report of Management  

56  

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Financial Statements   

Earnings  

58  

Financial Position  

59  

Cash Flows  

60  

Stockholders  Equity  

61  

Notes to
  Consolidated Financial Statements   

A  

Significant Accounting
  Policies  

64  

B  

Accounting Changes  

73  

C  

Acquisitions/Divestitures  

76  

D  

Financial Instruments
  (excluding derivatives)  

82  

E  

Inventories  

83  

F  

Financing Receivables  

83  

G  

Plant, Rental Machines and
  Other Property  

84  

H  

Investments and Sundry
  Assets  

84  

I  

Intangible Assets
  Including Goodwill  

84  

J  

Borrowings  

85  

K  

Derivatives and Hedging
  Transactions  

88  

L  

Other Liabilities  

91  

M  

Stockholders  Equity
  Activity  

92  

N  

Contingencies and
  Commitments  

94  

O  

Taxes  

97  

P  

Research, Development and
  Engineering  

99  

Q  

2005 Actions  

99  

R  

Earnings Per Share of
  Common Stock  

101  

S  

Rental Expense and Lease
  Commitments  

101  

T  

Stock-Based Compensation  

102  

U  

Retirement-Related
  Benefits  

105  

V  

Segment Information  

116  

W  

Subsequent Events  

119  

Five-year Comparison of
  Selected Financial Data  

120  

Selected Quarterly Data  

121  

Performance Graphs  

122  

Board of Directors and
  Senior Executive Officers  

123  

Stockholder Information  

124  

13  

Management
Discussion     

International Business
Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

Road Map     

The financial section of the
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) 2007 Annual
Report, consisting of this Management Discussion, the Consolidated Financial
Statements that follow and the notes related thereto, comprises 109
pages of information. This Road Map is designed to provide the reader with
some perspective regarding the information contained in the financial section.  

IBM s Business Model   

The company s business model
is built to support two principal goals: helping clients succeed in delivering
business value by becoming more innovative, efficient and competitive through
the use of business insight and information technology (IT) solutions; and,
providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been
developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and
technologies that have the best long-term growth and profitability prospects based
on the value they deliver to clients. The company s strategy is to focus on the
high-growth, high-value segments of the IT industry.  

The
company s global capabilities include services, software, hardware, fundamental
research and financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are
combined to provide business insight and solutions for the company s clients.  

The
business model is flexible, and allows for periodic change and rebalancing. The
company has exited commoditizing businesses like personal computers and hard
disk drives, and strengthened its position through strategic investments and
acquisitions in emerging higher value segments like service oriented
architecture (SOA) and Information on Demand. In addition, the company has
transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise which has improved
overall productivity and is driving investment and participation in the world s
fastest growing markets. As a result, the company is a higher-performing
enterprise today than it was several years ago.  

The
business model, supported by the company s long-term financial model, enables
the company to deliver consistently strong earnings, cash flows and returns on
invested capital in changing economic environments.  

Transparency   

Transparency is a primary
goal of successful financial reporting. The following are several key points
for the reader of this year s Annual Report.  

The company, in accordance with Section 404 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, conducted an evaluation of its internal control
over financial reporting and concluded that the internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2007.  

The Management Discussion is designed to provide readers
with a view of the company s results and certain factors that may affect future
prospects from the perspective of the company s management. Within the
 Management Discussion Snapshot,  on pages 16 and 17, the key messages and
details will give readers the ability to quickly assess the most important
drivers of performance within this brief overview.  

In the first quarter of 2007, the company changed the
presentation of revenue and cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings to
reflect the categories of Services, Sales and Financing. Previously, the
presentation included Global Services, Hardware, Software, Global Financing and
an Other category. In the past, these categories were aligned with the
company s reportable segment presentation of external revenue and cost.
However, as the company moves toward delivering solutions which bring
integrated software and services capabilities to its clients, the alignment
between segments and categories will diverge. Therefore, there are situations
where the Global Services segments could include software revenue, and conversely,
the Software segment may have services revenue. The change was made to avoid
possible confusion between the segment revenue and cost presentation and the
required category presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The
change only impacts the format for the presentation of the company s revenue
and cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and does not reflect any
change in the company s reportable segment results or in the company s
organizational structure. The periods presented in this Annual Report are
reported on a comparable basis. The Management Discussion and Analysis of
revenue and gross profit from continuing operations will focus on the segment
view, as this is how the business is managed and is the best reflection of the
company s operating results and strategy.  

On January 29, 2008, IBM International Group Capital
LLC, an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the company, issued 
$3.5 billion of 18-month floating rate notes. The proceeds will be utilized to
reduce the 364-day bridge loan associated with the 2007 accelerated share
repurchase (ASR). (See pages 31 and 32 for additional information.) In the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position included in the company s press
release and Form 8-K filing on January 17, 2008, the company
classified the $3.5 billion related to the 364-day bridge loan as Short-term
debt. As a result of this refinancing in January, and consistent with the  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map   

14   

Forward-Looking and Cautionary
  Statements   

15   

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report of Management  

56  

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

14  

provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 6,  Classification of Short-Term Obligations Expected to Be
Refinanced,  the company has classified this amount as Long-term debt in its
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on page 59.   

Effective December 31, 2006, the company adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment to FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R).  SFAS No. 158 requires that the funded
status of the company s pension and nonpension postretirement benefit plans be
recognized as an asset or a liability in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position, the recognition of any changes in that funded status in the
year in which the changes occur and the recognition of previously unrecognized
gains/(losses), prior service costs/(credits) and transition assets as a component
of Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in the
Consolidated Statement of Stockholder s Equity. The adoption of SFAS
No. 158 had a significant non-cash impact on the company s 2006 reported
financial position and stockholder s equity, reducing equity by $9.5 billion,
net of tax. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 had no impact on the company s
existing debt covenants, credit ratings or financial flexibility. See note U,
 Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 105 to 116 for additional information,
including 2007 impacts.  

The company divested its Personal Computing business to
Lenovo on April 30, 2005. The details of this significant transaction are
discussed in note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on pages 81 and 82. As a
result of this divestiture, the company s reported financial results do not
include any activity in 2007 and 2006, but includes four months of activity for
the Personal Computing Division in 2005. This lack of comparable periods has a
material impact on the company s reported revenue growth. Therefore, in the
Management Discussion, within the  Prior Year in Review  section on
pages 38 to 41, the company has presented an analysis of revenue both on
an as-reported basis and on a basis that excludes the revenues from the
divested Personal Computing business from the 2005 period. The company believes
that the analysis that excludes the Personal Computing revenues is a better
indicator of operational revenue performance on an ongoing basis.  

The reference to  adjusted for currency  in the Management
Discussion is made so that certain financial results can be viewed without the
impacts of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and therefore
facilitates a comparative view of business performance. See  Currency Rate Fluctuations 
on page 49 for additional information.  

Within the financial tables in this Annual Report, certain
columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure
purposes. Percentages reported in the financial tables throughout this Annual
Report are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar numbers.  

Organization of Information   

This Management Discussion
section provides the reader of the financial statements with a narrative on the
company s financial results. It contains the results of operations for each
segment of the business, followed by a description of the company s financial
position, as well as certain employee data. It is useful to read the Management
Discussion in conjunction with note V,  Segment Information,  on pages 116
to 119.  

Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as
if it were    a standalone entity. A separate  Global Financing 
section is included beginning on page 50. This section is separately
presented given this    segment s
unique impact on the company s financial condition and leverage, and the
information presented in this section is consistent with this separate company
view.  

Pages 58 through 63
include the Consolidated Financial Statements. These statements provide an
overview of the company s income and cash flow performance and its financial
position.  

The notes follow the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Among other items, the notes contain the
company s accounting policies (pages 64 to 73), acquisitions and
divestitures (pages 76 to 82), detailed information on specific items
within the financial statements, certain contingencies and commitments
(pages 94 through 96), and the results of each reportable  
segment (pages 116 to 119).  

Discontinued Operations   

On December 31, 2002,
the company sold its hard disk drive (HDD) business to Hitachi, Ltd. (Hitachi).
The HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued operation under generally
accepted accounting principles (GAAP) which requires that the income statement
and cash flow information be reformatted to separate the divested business from
the company s continuing operations. See page 42 for additional
information.  

Forward-Looking
and Cautionary Statements     

Certain statements contained
in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking statements within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that
could cause actual results to be materially different, as discussed more fully
elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company s filings with the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company s 2007
Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2008.  

15  

Management
Discussion Snapshot     

* 4.2 percent adjusted for currency.   

   ** At December 31.   

   NM   Not meaningful   

Continuing Operations   

The company s performance in
2007 reflected the strength of its global model. Revenue increased in all
geographies, with strong growth in emerging markets worldwide. The company
capitalized on the opportunities in the global economies, generating 63 percent
of its revenue outside the United States, in delivering full-year growth of 8.1
percent (4 percent adjusted for currency).  

Gross
profit margins improved reflecting a shift to higher value offerings and
continued benefits from productivity initiatives and the transformation to a
globally integrated enterprise. Pre-tax income from continuing operations grew
8.8 percent and net income from continuing operations increased 10.6 percent
versus 2006. Diluted earnings per share improved 18.5 percent, reflecting the
strong growth in net income and the benefits of the common stock repurchase
program. In 2007, the company repurchased approximately $18.8 billion of its
common stock, including a $12.5 billion ASR in the second quarter.  

The
increase in 2007 revenue, as compared to 2006, was primarily due to:  

Strong performance from Global Technology Services and
Global Business Services with growth in all business lines;  

Continued strong demand in the Software business, driven by
Key Branded Middleware products, with positive contributions from strategic
acquisitions; and  

Continued growth in emerging countries (Brazil, Russia,
India and China: up 26 percent) and solid performance in all geographies, led
by Asia Pacific.  

The increase in income from
continuing operations before income taxes in 2007 was primarily due to:  

Revenue growth as discussed above; and  

Gross profit margin improvements in the Global Services and
Systems and Technology segments.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion Snapshot   

16   

Description of Business   

17   

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public  
  Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

16  

The
consolidated gross profit margin increased 0.4 points versus 2006 to 42.2
percent. An improvement in the Systems and Technology margin (2.0 points)
contributed 0.5 points to the overall margin improvement. This increase was
primarily driven by higher margins in System z, System p and System x servers.
The Software margin was flat at 85.2 percent, but contributed 0.2 points to the
overall margin improvement due to the mix of revenue by segment. The Global
Technology Services and Global Business Services margins increased 0.1 points
and 0.4 points to 29.9 percent and 23.5 percent, respectively, versus the prior
year. Although gross profit margins improved for Global Services, the increased
Global Services revenue content contributed to a 0.2 point decline in the
consolidated gross margin due to the mix impact. The Global Financing margin
declined 3.5 points versus 2006 to 46.7 percent, causing a 0.1 point decline in
the overall company margin.  

Total
expense and other income increased 9.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 versus 2006. The increase was primarily due to increases in
Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense and Interest expense.
SG A expense increased $1,801 million primarily due to acquisition related
spending, as well as increased investments in emerging countries and the
software and services businesses. Interest expense increased $333 million
primarily due to higher debt associated with the financing of the ASR. In
addition, Other (income) and expense declined $140 million in income
year-to-year primarily due to higher losses on derivative instruments.  

The
effective tax rate for 2007 was 28.1 percent, compared with 29.3 percent in
2006.  

Total
assets increased $17,197 million ($12,957 million adjusted for currency)
primarily due to increases in Cash and cash equivalents ($6,969 million), Prepaid
pension assets ($6,788 million), total financing receivables ($2,729 million)
and Goodwill ($1,431 million). These increases were partially offset by
decreases in long-term deferred tax assets ($2,367 million) and short-term
marketable securities ($1,479 million).  

Total
liabilities increased $17,234 million ($13,642 million adjusted for currency)
driven primarily by increases in total debt ($12,592 million), tax liabilities
($1,492 million) and total deferred income ($1,773 million).  

Stockholders 
equity of $28,470 million was essentially flat versus 2006. Increased Treasury stock
($17,649 million) from share repurchases, which included the ASR, was largely
offset by increased Retained earnings ($8,208 million) driven by Net income,
increased Common stock ($3,917 million) related to stock options and a decline
in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings ($5,487
million) primarily due to the effects of pension remeasurements.  

The
company generated $16,094 million in cash flow provided by operating
activities, an increase of $1,075 million compared to 2006, primarily driven by
increased Net income. Net cash used in investing activities of $4,675 million
was $6,874 million lower than 2006 driven primarily by proceeds from
disposition of short-term marketable securities and a reduction in cash used
for acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities of $4,740 million
decreased $3,464 million versus 2006 driven by increased net proceeds from
total debt ($12,233 million), partially offset by increased share repurchases
($10,744 million).  

Global
Services signings were $50 billion in 2007 as compared to $49 billion in 2006.
The Global Services backlog is estimated to be $118 billion at
December 31, 2007, versus $116 billion at December 31, 2006.  

For
additional information and details, see the  Year in Review  section on
pages 23 to 37.  

Description
of Business     

Please
refer to IBM s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2008,
with the SEC for a more detailed version of this Description of Business,
especially Item 1A. entitled  Risk Factors.    

IBM is a globally integrated
enterprise that targets the intersection of technology and effective business.
The company seeks to be a partner in its clients  success by enabling their own
capacity for distinctive innovation. To help clients achieve growth,
effectiveness, efficiency and the realization of greater value through
innovation, IBM draws upon the world s leading systems, software and services
capabilities.  

17  

IBM s Strategy   

In IBM s view, today s
networked economy has created a global business landscape and a mandate for
business change. Integrated global economies have opened markets of new
opportunity and new sources of skills. The Internet has enabled communication
and collaboration across the world and brought with it a new computing model
premised on continuous global connection. In that landscape, companies can
distribute work and technology anywhere in the world.  

Given
these opportunities, IBM is working with its clients to develop new business
designs and technical architectures that allow their businesses the flexibility
required to compete in this new landscape. The business is also adjusting its
footprint toward emerging geographies, tapping their double-digit growth,
providing the technology infrastructure they need, and taking advantage of the
talent pools they provide to better service the company s clients.  

IBM s
strategy addresses this new era and delivers value to its clients through three
strategic priorities:  

FOCUS ON OPEN TECHNOLOGIES AND
HIGH-VALUE SOLUTIONS   

The PC era has ended,
representing a fundamental shift in the technology requirements of the
company s clients. IBM is well positioned to provide its enterprise clients the
open technologies and high-value solutions they will need to compete.  

IBM is leveraging its leadership position in the convergence
of software and services, in SOA, in virtualization, in high-performance chips,
in open and modular IT  continuing its shift from commoditizing segments to
higher value segments with better profit opportunity.  

The company continues to be a leading force in open source
solutions to enable its clients to achieve higher levels of interoperability,
cost efficiency and quality.  

DELIVER INTEGRATION AND
INNOVATION TO CLIENTS   

Changes in the market have
caused IBM s clients to seek flexibility and innovation in everything from
technical architecture to their business model. In response, IBM is focused on
delivering integration and innovation to its clients   offering them
technologies and services that support real value creation.  

IBM has a long heritage of transforming the business
operations of large enterprises and has earned the trust to be their innovation
partner and global integrator.  

The company has a deep set of global assets and capabilities
it is applying to improve services profitability, both for its clients and for
itself.  

BECOME THE PREMIER GLOBALLY
INTEGRATED ENTERPRISE   

As global networks and
technology capabilities change business economics, legacy business designs can
quickly become noncompetitive. IBM believes a globally integrated enterprise,
designed for this new landscape can compete effectively and will benefit from
the opportunities offered.  

To reshape its business for the global economy, IBM has
replaced vertical hierarchies with horizontally integrated teams.  

Across the business, the company has made significant
investments in emerging markets, taking core processes and functions that were
once managed regionally and shifting them to a globally integrated model.  

Looking forward, IBM is
confident it understands the economic shift of globalization, the evolution of
the new computing model and the powerful role of innovation in this new
landscape. Its unique capabilities are well adapted to help the company s
clients innovate and compete effectively in the new landscape.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business   

17   

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report Management   

56  

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

18  

Business Segments and
Capabilities   

The company s major
operations comprise a Global Technology Services segment; a Global Business
Services segment; a Systems and Technology segment; a Software segment; and a
Global Financing segment.  

Global
Services   is a
critical component of the company s strategy of providing IT infrastructure and
business insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include
industry-leading IBM software and hardware, other suppliers  products are also
used if a client solution requires it. Contracts for IBM services   commonly
referred to as  signings    can range from less than one year to over 10 years.
Within Global Services there are two reportable segments: Global Technology
Services and Global Business Services. 

GLOBAL TECHNOLOGY SERVICES
(GTS) segment primarily reflects IT infrastructure services and business
process services, delivering value through the company s global scale,
standardization and automation.  

GTS
Capabilities   

Strategic
Outsourcing Services.  
Comprehensive IT services integrated with business insight working with clients
to reduce costs and improve productivity through the outsourcing of processes
and operations. 

Business
Transformation Outsourcing.   A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and
Business Process Outsourcing through transformational offerings that delivers
improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or
operation of the client s business processes, applications and infrastructure. 

Integrated
Technology Services.  
Services offerings that help clients access, manage and support their
technology infrastructures, through a combination of skilled resources,
software and IBM s knowledge of business processes. 

Maintenance.   A number of support services from product
maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability
of clients  IT infrastructure. 

GLOBAL BUSINESS SERVICES
(GBS) segment primarily reflects professional services and application
outsourcing services, delivering business value and innovation to clients
through solutions which leverage industry- and business-process expertise.  

GBS
Capabilities   

Consulting
and Systems Integration.  
Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for client-relationship
management, financial management, human capital management, business strategy
and change, and supply-chain management. 

19  

Application
Management Services.  
Application development, management, maintenance and support services for
packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Delivering value
through the company s global resource capabilities, industry knowledge, and the
standardization and automation of application development. 

SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY
segment provides IBM s clients with business solutions requiring advanced
computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately 55 percent of the
Systems and Technology s server and storage sales transactions are through the
company s business partners; approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user
clients, more than 40 percent of which are through the Internet at ibm.com. In
addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology and
products, packaging solutions and engineering technology services to clients
and for IBM s own advanced technology needs. While not reported as external
revenue, systems hardware is also deployed to support services solutions.  

Systems and
Technology Capabilities   

Servers.   IBM systems, which are typically connected
to a network and provide the required infrastructure for business. These
systems use both IBM and non-IBM operating systems and all IBM servers can also
run Linux, a key open source operating system. (System z, System i, System p,
System x and BladeCenter). 

Storage.   Information infrastructure products and
solutions, which address critical client requirements for information retention
and archiving, availability and virtualization, and security and compliance.
The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and
software. 

Microelectronics.   Semiconductor design and manufacturing for
use in IBM systems and for sale to external clients. 

Engineering
and Technology Services.  
System and component design services, Blue Gene  supercomputer systems, 
outsourcing of clients  design teams and technology and manufacturing
consulting services. 

Retail
Store Solutions.  
Point-of-sale retail systems (network connected cash registers) as well as
solutions which connect them to other store systems (for example, inventory). 

SOFTWARE consists primarily
of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables
clients to integrate systems, processes and applications across a standard
software platform. IBM middleware is designed to open standards which allows
the efficient integration of disparate client applications that may have been
built internally, or provided by package software vendors or system
integrators. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. In
addition, Software includes Product Lifecycle Management software which
primarily serves the Industrial sector. Approximately two-thirds of external
software segment revenue is annuity-based, coming from recurring license charges
and ongoing subscription and support from one-time charge (OTC) arrangements.
The remaining one-third of external revenue relates to OTC arrangements, in
which the client pays one up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically,
arrangements for the sale of OTC software include one year of maintenance. The
client can also purchase ongoing maintenance after the first year, which
includes product upgrades and technical support. While not reported as external
revenue, software is also deployed to support services solutions.  

Software
Capabilities   

WebSphere
Software.   Management
of a wide variety of business processes using open standards to interconnect
applications, data and operating systems. Provides the foundation for
Web-enabled applications and is a key product set in deploying a SOA. 

Information
Management Software.  
Advanced database, content management and information integration software that
helps companies integrate, manage and gain value from their business
information. 

Tivoli
Software.   Software
for infrastructure management, including security and storage management that
will help organizations better manage their IT infrastructure to more
effectively deliver IT services. 

Lotus
Software.  
Collaboration, messaging and social networking software that enables businesses
to communicate, collaborate and increase productivity. 

Rational
Software.   Software
tools that help clients manage their software development processes and
capabilities. 

Operating
Systems.   Software
engines that manage the fundamental processes that make computers run. 

GLOBAL FINANCING is
described on pages 50 and 51.  

Global
Financing Capabilities   

Commercial
Financing.   Short-term
inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT
products. 

Client
Financing.   Lease and
loan financing to external and internal clients for terms generally between two
and seven years. 

Remarketing.   The sale and lease of used equipment
(primarily sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions) to new or
existing clients. 

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business   

17   

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report of Management  

56  

Report of Independent
  Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

20  

IBM Worldwide Organizations   

The following worldwide
organizations play key roles in IBM s delivery of value to its clients:  

Sales and Distribution Organization  

Research, Development and Intellectual Property  

Integrated Operations  

SALES AND DISTRIBUTION
ORGANIZATION   

The company s Sales and
Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated
country based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these
units, client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of
consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve
clients  business performance. These teams deliver value by understanding the
client s business and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across
IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement
solutions for clients.  

By
combining global expertise with local experience, IBM s geographic structure
enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new
market opportunities and timely investments in emerging opportunities. The
geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients  agendas.
IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by leveraging industry
skills with marketing, ibm.com and local Business Partner resources.  

The
majority of IBM s revenue, excluding the company s original equipment
manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly
grouped into six sectors:  

Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance  

Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences  

Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and
Petroleum, Electronics  

Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and
Transportation  

Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment,
Energy and Utilities  

Small and Medium Business: Mainly companies with less than
1,000 employees  

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY   

IBM s research and
development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its
competitors. IBM annually spends approximately $6 billion for R D, focusing
its investments in high-growth, high-value opportunities. In 2007, the
company s investment in R D was approximately 15 percent of its combined
hardware and software revenue. As a result of innovations in these and other
areas, IBM was once again awarded more U.S. patents in 2007 than any other
company. This marks the 15th year in a row that IBM achieved this distinction.  

In
addition to producing world-class hardware and software products, IBM
innovations are a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company s
clients through its growing services activities. The company s investments in
R D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1
billion annually. Some of IBM s technological breakthroughs are used
exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in
either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee.  

INTEGRATED OPERATIONS   

IBM s ability to deliver
differentiating innovation to its clients is being greatly enhanced by the
company s global integration which is simultaneously giving the company better
economics and deeper capabilities, while eliminating redundancies that were
built up over fifty years as a growing multinational enterprise. The company operates
in 170 countries, with approximately 69 percent of its employees outside the
U.S. As a globally integrated enterprise, the company organizes work based on
the right costs, the right skills and the right business environment,
integrating deeply with its partners, suppliers and clients. Being global is
about gaining access to talent and skills and then scaling them globally to
develop new, distinctive capabilities. The company s integrated operations
enable IBM to be the most efficient, responsive and globally integrated
enterprise   able to instantly leverage its expertise and capabilities  
anywhere, at any time. Although bound by a common mission and principles,
Integrated Operations is comprised of three distinct units, each with very
specific objectives closely aligned with the IBM businesses they support.  

Integrated
Supply Chain   

Just as IBM works to
transform its clients  supply chains for greater efficiency and responsiveness
to global market conditions, the company continues to derive business value
from its own globally integrated supply chain, reinvented as a strategic
advantage for the company to create value for clients and shareholders. IBM
leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its supply-chain
business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate
clients  end-to-end supply-chain processes, from procurement to logistics.  

21  

IBM spends approximately $38 billion annually through its supply chain,
procuring materials and services around the world. The company s supply,
manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment operations are integrated
in one operating unit that has reduced inventories, improved response to
marketplace opportunities and external risks and converted fixed to variable
costs. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations,
sales force productivity and processes, and these actions have improved client
satisfaction.  

Integrated Technology Delivery   

Integrated Technology
Delivery (ITD) brings together all of the company s worldwide service delivery
capabilities for Strategic Outsourcing with strong local and regional
management teams supported by a set of global competencies. ITD leverages the
company s global scale and advanced technology to deliver standardized
solutions that are automated, repeatable and globally integrated. Through the
company s global position, clients gain cost advantages, access to
industry-leading skills and access to IBM s scale and overall flexibility. ITD
manages the world s largest privately-owned IT infrastructure with employees in
over 30 countries supporting over 400 data centers.  

Integrated Managed Business Process Delivery   

Integrated
Managed Business Process Delivery (IMBPD) provides highly efficient,
world-class delivery capabilities in IBM s business process delivery
operations, which include Business Transformation Outsourcing, Business Process
Outsourcing, Business Process Services and Application on Demand. IMBPD has
employees and delivery centers in over 40 countries worldwide.  

Key
Business Drivers   

The
following are some of the key drivers of the company s business.  

ECONOMIC
ENVIRONMENT AND CORPORATE SPENDING BUDGETS   

Global
demand for systems, software and services is a key driver of the company s
business and financial performance. IBM s diverse set of products and offerings
is designed to provide more consistent results in both strong and weak economic
environments. The company accomplishes this by not only having a mix of
offerings with long-term cash and income streams, as well as cyclical
transaction-based sales, but also by continually developing competitive
products and solutions and effectively managing a skilled resource base. IBM
continues to transform itself to take advantage of shifting demand trends,
focusing on client- and industry-specific solutions, business performance and
open standards.  

INTERNAL
BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION AND GLOBAL INTEGRATION INITIATIVES   

IBM
is committed to its transformation to a globally integrated enterprise. The
company continues to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings
by transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and
functions. In addition to eliminating redundancies and overhead structures to
drive productivity, this integration has improved IBM s capacity to innovate by
providing greater clarity of key priorities around shared goals and objectives
and led to a sharper focus for the company on learning, development and
knowledge sharing.  

INNOVATION
INITIATIVES   

IBM
invests to improve its ability to help its clients innovate. Investment may
occur in the research and development of new products and services, as well as
in the establishment of new collaborative and cocreation relationships with
developers, other companies and other institutions. Examples include IBM s
leadership positions in the design of smaller, faster and energy-efficient
semiconductor devices; systems virtualization, Green Data Centers and the
design of  grid  computing networks that allow computers to share processing
power.  

OPEN
STANDARDS   

The
broad adoption of open standards is essential to the computing model for an on
demand business and is a significant driver of collaborative innovation across
all industries. Without interoperability among all manner of computing
platforms, the integration of any client s internal systems, applications and
processes remains a monumental and expensive task. The broad-based acceptance
of open standards   rather than closed, proprietary architectures   also allows
the computing infrastructure to more easily absorb (and thus benefit from) new
technical innovations. IBM s support of open standards is evidenced by the
enabling of its products to support open standards such as Linux, and the
development of Rational software development tools, which can be used to
develop and upgrade other companies  software products.  

INVESTING
IN GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES   

The
company is continuing to refocus its business on the higher value segments of
enterprise computing   providing technology and transformation services to
clients  businesses. Consistent with that focus, the company continues to
significantly invest in growth opportunities as a way to drive revenue growth
and market share gains. Areas of investment include strategic acquisitions,
primarily in software and services, focused client- and industry-specific
solutions, maintaining technology leadership and emerging growth countries
worldwide.  

Management
  Discussion   

14   

Road
  Map  

14  

Forward-Looking
  and Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management
  Discussion Snapshot  

16  

Description
  of Business   

17   

Year
  in Review   

23   

Prior
  Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued
  Operations  

42  

Other
  Information  

42  

Global
  Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

22  

Year in Review     

Results
of Continuing Operations   

SEGMENT
DETAILS   

The
following is an analysis of the 2007 versus 2006 reportable segment results.
The analysis of 2006 versus 2005 reportable segment results is on pages 39
to 41.  

The following table presents each reportable segment s external revenue
and gross margin results.  

The
following table presents each reportable segment s external revenue as a
percentage of total segment revenue and each reportable segment s pre-tax
income as a percentage of total segment pre-tax income.  

* Segment
pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to
reflect an arm s-length transfer price.   

23  

Global Services   

The
company s Global Services segments, Global Technology Services and Global
Business Services had a combined revenue of $54,144 million, an increase of
12.1 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 when compared to 2006.
The Global Services segments delivered combined pre-tax profit of $5,622
million, an increase of 12.6 percent versus the prior year. The company has
made considerable progress implementing its strategies across the Global
Services offerings. These actions have resulted in improved financial
performance with strong and balanced contribution across all geographies and
business lines.  

Global
Technology Services (GTS) revenue increased 11.7 percent (7 percent adjusted
for currency) in 2007 versus 2006. The strong performance reflects the
extensive transformation which has occurred in this business over the past few
years. This transformation included revamping the entire Integrated Technology
Services (ITS) portfolio, continued improvement in Strategic Outsourcing (SO)
delivery and a disciplined approach to driving new business in existing
accounts. Total signings in GTS increased 2 percent, with shorter term signings
growth of 4 percent and 1 percent growth in longer term signings.  

SO revenue was up 9.7 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) with growth
in all geographies, led by Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific.
Revenue growth benefited from prior-year signings, sales of new business in
existing accounts, lower base contract erosion and good yield from 2007
signings. SO signings in 2007 decreased 1 percent when compared to 2006.  

ITS revenue increased 13.3 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency) in
2007 versus 2006. Revenue growth was driven primarily by increased signings and
reflects the strength of the ITS portfolio worldwide. The revamped ITS
portfolio includes 10 Service Product Lines which complement hardware offerings
from Systems and Technology and software offerings from the Software business.
The acquisition of Internet Security Systems (ISS), in the fourth quarter of 2006,
also contributed to the revenue growth this year. ITS signings increased 4
percent in 2007, with good performance in the key offerings, including Green
Data Center, Server Management Services and SOA.  

Business Transformation Outsourcing (BTO) revenue increased 24.4
percent (20 percent adjusted for currency), with double-digit growth in all
geographies. BTO signings increased 17 percent year over year.  

Maintenance revenue increased 11.4 percent (7 percent adjusted for
currency) driven primarily by increased availability services on non-IBM IT
equipment. Services provided to InfoPrint Solutions, following the divestiture
of the printer business in the second quarter, contributed 4 points of growth.  

Global Business Services (GBS) revenue increased 13.0 percent (9
percent adjusted for currency) in 2007, with balanced growth across all three
geographies. Revenue performance was led by double-digit growth in application
management services offerings and growth in all consulting service lines. Total
signings in GBS increased 1 percent, led by 5 percent growth in shorter term
signings. Longer term signings decreased 7 percent year over year.  

GTS
gross profit increased 12.2 percent compared to 2006, with gross profit margin
improving 0.1 points, driven primarily by margin expansion in SO due to an
improved cost structure and ITS, which benefited from a mix to higher value
offerings. Segment pre-tax profit increased 8.2 percent to $3.6 billion with a
pre-tax margin of 9.4 percent, a decline of 0.2 points versus 2006. Increased
investments in sales and delivery, acquisitions and restructuring charges were
essentially offset by productivity improvements and effective expense
management.  

Transformation actions executed by GBS over the past two years have
resulted in profitable growth. GBS gross profit increased 14.8 percent to $4.2
billion in 2007 when compared to 2006, and the gross profit margin improved 0.4
points. Segment pre-tax profit increased 21.0 percent to $2.1 billion with a
pre-tax margin of 10.7 percent, an improvement of 0.9 points year over year.
The margin expansion has been driven primarily by revenue growth, ongoing
productivity and utilization initiatives and expense management.  

Management
  Discussion   

14   

Road
  Map  

14  

Forward-Looking
  and Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management
  Discussion Snapshot  

16  

Description
  of Business  

17  

Year
  in Review   

23   

Prior
  Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued
  Operations  

42  

Other
  Information  

42  

Global
  Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

24  

Global Services Signings    

In
2007, total Global Services signings increased 1 percent year to year to
$49,895 million. Shorter term signings were $22,014 million, an increase of 5
percent year to year. Longer term signings decreased 1 percent to $27,880
million, however, the average duration of longer term contracts signed in 2007
was 1.1 years shorter than contracts signed in 2006. Therefore, while longer
term signings were essentially flat year to year, the annualized revenue
expected from these signings is higher versus the prior year. GTS signings were
$30,154 million and GBS signings were $19,741 million in 2007. The total Global
Services backlog increased $2 billion from the prior year to an estimated $118
billion.  

Global
Services signings are management s initial estimate of the value of a client s
commitment under a Global Services contract. Signings are used by management to
assess period performance of Global Services management. There are no
third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings.
The calculation used by management is an approximation of constant currency and
involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client s commitment,
including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of
termination charges or wind-down costs. For example, for longer term contracts
that require significant up-front investment by the company, the portions of
these contracts that are a signing are those periods in which there is a
significant economic impact on the client if the commitment is not achieved,
usually through a termination charge or the client incurring significant
wind-down costs as a result of the termination. For shorter term contracts that
do not require significant upfront investments, a signing is usually equal to
the full contract value. Longer term contracts represent SO and BTO contracts
as well as GBS contracts with the  
U.S. Federal government and its agencies and Application Management Services
(AMS) for custom and legacy applications. Shorter term contracts represent the
remaining GBS offerings of Consulting and Systems Integration, AMS for packaged
applications and ITS contracts. These amounts have been adjusted to exclude the
impact of year-to-year currency changes.  

Signings include SO, BTO, ITS and GBS contracts. Contract extensions
and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the
incremental new value. Maintenance is not included in signings as maintenance
contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals.  

Backlog includes SO, BTO, ITS, GBS, and Maintenance. Backlog is
intended to be a statement of overall work under contract and therefore does
include Maintenance. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected
by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts,
periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and currency
assumptions used to approximate constant currency.  

Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive
backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company s requirements
for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services
agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or
divestiture.  

Systems and Technology   

Systems
and Technology revenue decreased 3.0 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2007 versus 2006. On June 1, 2007, the company completed the
divestiture of its printing business to Ricoh. This resulted in the loss of
approximately $600 million of Systems and Technology revenue in 2007 when
compared to 2006. See note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on pages 80 and
81 for additional information regarding this divestiture. Systems and
Technology revenue, excluding the printing business, was flat (declined 3
percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus 2006.  

25  

System z revenue decreased 11.2 percent (15 percent adjusted for
currency) year to year. System z MIPS (millions of instructions per second)
shipments increased 3 percent in 2007 versus 2006. System z revenue declined in
the second half of 2007 following a long and successful technology cycle of
over two-and-a-half years. The expected announcement and availability of the
next generation mainframe is late February 2008.  

System i revenue decreased 10.6 percent (14 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 versus 2006. Although System i revenue declined year over
year, fourth-quarter 2007 revenue increased 2 percent with growth in POWER6
servers which were introduced late in the third quarter of 2007.  

System p revenue increased 8.8 percent (5 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 versus 2006. The increase was primarily driven by strength in
mid-range POWER5+ and POWER6 servers, which increased 23 percent in 2007 versus
the prior year. System p revenue increased in all geographies, with particular
strength in Asia Pacific. In the first quarter of 2008, the company will
announce and ship POWER6 technology in System p s entry segment.  

System x revenue increased 7.0 percent (3 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 versus 2006. Revenue performance was driven by System x
server products which grew 8 percent and System x blades which increased 16
percent in 2007 versus 2006. The new x86 servers with quad-core processors and
BladeCenter-S for the Small and Medium Business sector shipped in the fourth
quarter and were well received in the market place.  

System Storage revenue increased 5.1 percent (2 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 versus 2006. The increase was primarily driven by 13 percent
growth in tape products, while external disk products increased 1 percent in
2007. Enterprise tape products had strong double-digit revenue growth, while
Midrange tape products had mid single-digit revenue growth. The company
completed the acquisition of XIV in late December, which will further
strengthen its storage portfolio in the long term. This acquisition positions
the company to grow in emerging opportunities like Web 2.0 applications,
digital archives and digital media.  

Microelectronics revenue decreased 11.8 percent in 2007 versus 2006,
driven by reduced demand for game processors. The Microelectronics OEM business
has minimal impact to the company s overall net income, but this business
continues to deliver key technology to the systems business, which is the
fundamental objective of the company s investment.  

Retail Store Solutions revenue increased 14.5 percent (11 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus 2006, primarily due to the continued roll
out of new programmable point-of-sale solutions to large retail clients.  

Printing Systems revenue decreased as a result of the divestiture of
the business. The 2007 results include five months of revenue while the 2006
results include 12 months of revenue.  

The
increase in Systems and Technology gross profit dollars for 2007 versus 2006
was primarily due to higher gross profit margins in System z, System p and
System x servers. The Systems and Technology gross profit margin increased 2.0
points to 39.7 percent in 2007. System p performance contributed 1.3 points to
the overall margin improvement, while System z and System x contributed 0.7
points and 0.4 points, respectively. These increases were partially offset by
lower gross margins in System i of 0.2 points and System Storage 0.2 points.  

Systems and Technology pre-tax margin expanded 2.1 points to 9.6
percent in 2007, reflecting a strong combination of operational cost management
and the value that virtualization is driving in the enterprise space.  

Software   

* Reclassified
to conform with 2007 presentation.   

Management
  Discussion   

14   

Road
  Map  

14  

Forward-Looking
  and Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management
  Discussion Snapshot  

16  

Description
  of Business  

17  

Year
  in Review   

23   

Prior
  Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued
  Operations  

42  

Other
  Information  

42  

Global
  Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

26  

Software
segment revenue of $19,982 million increased 10.0 percent (6 percent adjusted
for currency) in 2007 reflecting strong demand for the key branded middleware
products. Revenue performance was led by double-digit growth in the Financial
Services, Public and Small and Medium Business sectors. Clients are using IBM
middleware to effectively improve their operating leverage and business
efficiency.  

Revenue from Key Branded Middleware, which includes WebSphere,
Information Management, Lotus, Tivoli and Rational products, was $10.8 billion,
up 15.5 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) and increased 3 points to 54
percent of total software segment revenue. The company has invested heavily in
these products, through internal investments and targeted acquisitions, and expects
the majority of its software revenue growth to come from this portion of the
product portfolio.  

Revenue from the WebSphere Family of products increased 19.1 percent
(14 percent adjusted for currency) and was led by double-digit growth in
WebSphere Application Servers and WebSphere Business Integration software. The
strong revenue performance reflects the industry s adoption of SOA. The
WebSphere products provide the foundation for Web-enabled applications and are
a key product set in deploying a client s SOA.  

Information Management revenue increased 14.7 percent (10 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus the prior year. Information Management
software enables clients to leverage Information on Demand. The acquisition of
FileNet, in the fourth quarter of 2006, contributed strong revenue growth
throughout the year. The Cognos acquisition, completed in the first quarter of
2008, will provide a strong entry in the Business Intelligence marketplace and
is expected to provide synergies in software, services, servers and storage.  

Lotus revenue increased 8.7 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2007 driven by the Notes/Domino family of products. Lotus software is well
established as a tool for providing improved workplace collaboration and productivity.
Lotus Connections, released in the second quarter, has been rapidly adapted by
customers. The latest version of Lotus Notes, Lotus Notes 8.0, was delivered in
the third quarter of 2007.  

Revenue from Tivoli software, infrastructure software that enables
clients to centrally manage networks including security and storage capability,
increased 18.0 percent (13 percent adjusted for currency) with double-digit
growth in each segment of the portfolio, Systems Management, Security and
Storage. The acquisitions of MRO, in the fourth quarter of 2006, and Vallent
and Consul, in the first quarter of 2007, also contributed to the brand s
revenue growth.  

Rational revenue increased 13.7 percent (9 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 which reflected strong customer acceptance of the integrated
product set. Rational provides integrated tools to improve the software
development process for clients. The closing of the Telelogic acquisition is
conditioned upon satisfactory completion of regulatory reviews in the European
Union. Telelogic s suite of system programming tools complements Rational s IT
tool set, providing a complete tooling solution across a client s enterprise.  

Revenue from Other middleware products increased 3.5 percent (flat
adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus the prior year. This software product set
includes more mature products which provide a more stable flow of revenue.  

Operating Systems revenue increased 2.0 percent (decreased 2 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus 2006.  

Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) revenue decreased 6.4 percent (11
percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 driven by declines in the Small and
Medium Business sector. PLM software helps companies improve their product
development processes and their ability to use product-related information
across their businesses.  

Other software segment revenue increased 26.7 percent (22 percent
adjusted for currency) versus 2006 reflecting growth in software-related
services, such as consulting and education.  

Software
segment gross profit increased 10.0 percent to $17.0 billion in 2007, driven
primarily by strong revenue growth. Gross profit margin was 85.2 percent in
2007, flat versus the prior year.  

The Software segment contributed $6.0 billion of pre-tax profit in
2007, an increase of 9.3 percent versus 2006. The segment pre-tax profit margin
of 26.8 percent was essentially flat (declined 0.1 pt) versus the prior year,
reflecting the integration of acquired businesses.  

Global Financing   

See
page 51 for an analysis of Global Financing s revenue and gross profit.  

Geographic Revenue   

In
addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also
measures revenue performance on a geographic basis.  

27  

The
following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance
excludes OEM revenue, which is presented separately.  

From
a geographic perspective, revenue increased in all geographies in 2007 when
compared to 2006. Adjusted for currency, revenue growth was led by Asia Pacific
and steady performance throughout the year in EMEA.  

Americas  revenue increased 4.1 percent (3 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007. Revenue increased in all regions with the U.S. up 2.9
percent, Canada 8.4 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) and Latin America
8.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  

EMEA revenue increased 13.8 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2007 when compared to 2006. Within the European market, IT spending grew at
a moderate rate, and the company s mid single-digit revenue growth rates
throughout 2007 reflected that environment. In the major countries, Spain s
revenue grew 21.7 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency), while Germany s
revenue increased 14.6 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) and the U.K. s
revenue increased 11.3 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). France s
revenue increased 10.2 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) and Italy s
revenue grew 8.7 percent (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency).  

Asia Pacific revenue increased 11.0 percent (8 percent adjusted for
currency) year over year. Growth was led by strong performance in the India,
Greater China, Australia/New Zealand, ASEAN and Korea regions, where the
economies remain strong, with combined revenue growth of 23.8 percent (17
percent adjusted for currency). Japan revenue, which represents 49 percent of
the Asia Pacific revenue base, was flat (increased 1 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 when compared to 2006, reflecting a slower economy.  

Across the geographies, the emerging BRIC countries of Brazil, Russia,
India, and China together grew 26.3 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency),
reflecting the investments made to build capabilities and capture opportunities
in these countries. Brazil s revenue increased 14.3 percent (1 percent adjusted
for currency), while Russia s revenue grew 30.3 percent (30 percent adjusted
for currency). India s revenue increased 37.9 percent (26 percent adjusted for
currency) and China s revenue increased 32.5 percent (29 percent adjusted for
currency). In addition to the BRIC markets, the company has also had strong
revenue growth in other nations where there is strong demand for business and
IT infrastructure solutions.   

Revenue growth rates, as reported, were impacted in 2007 as a result of
the divestiture of the printing business on June 1, 2007. Revenue,
excluding the printing business in both years, increased as follows compared to
2006:  

Americas   5.2%  

               EMEA   14.5%  

               Asia Pacific   11.8%  

               IBM Consolidated   8.9%  

The
company believes that the analysis that excludes the printing business revenues
is a better indicator of operational performance on an ongoing basis.  

OEM revenue decreased 10.1 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2007 when compared to 2006, driven by a slowdown in demand for game
processors.  

Management
  Discussion   

14   

Road
  Map  

14  

Forward-Looking
  and Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management
  Discussion Snapshot  

16  

Description
  of Business  

17  

Year
  in Review   

23   

Prior
  Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued
  Operations  

42  

Other
  Information  

42  

Global
  Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

28  

Total Expense and Other Income   

Total
expense and other income increased 9.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007 versus 2006. Overall, the increase was primarily due to
increased Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense and Interest
expense. SG A expense increased $1,801 million primarily due to acquisition
related spending, as well as increased investments in emerging countries and
the software and services businesses. Interest expense increased $333 million
primarily due to higher debt associated with the financing of the ASR
agreements. In addition, Other (income) and expense declined $140 million in
income primarily due to higher losses on derivative instruments. The
expense-to-revenue ratio increased 0.3 points to 27.6 percent in 2007, as
revenue increased 8.1 percent and expense increased 9.1 percent in 2007 versus
2006. For additional information regarding the increase in Total expense and
other income, see the following analyses by category:  

Selling, General and Administrative    

* Reclassified
to conform with 2007 presentation as the Restructuring category ($33 million in
2007 and $15 million in 2006) was combined into the SG A   base category.   

   NM   Not
meaningful   

Total
SG A expense increased 8.9 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). The
increase was primarily driven by acquisition related spending (3 points), the
effects of currency (3 points) and investments in the software and services
businesses, as well as emerging markets. These investments reflect the
continuing business mix shift to higher value offerings which require higher
operating expenses. The returns on these investments are reflected in the
momentum in key branded middleware offerings, growth in emerging markets and
improved Global Services revenue. In addition, Bad debt expense increased $113
million primarily due to an increase in the provision for doubtful accounts.
The reserve coverage for receivables at year end was 1.5 percent, essentially
flat versus year-end 2006. Workforce reductions   ongoing increased as a result
of actions taken to address cost issues in GTS, primarily in SO, during the
second quarter of 2007.  

Other (Income) and Expense    

*
Reclassified to conform with 2007 presentation deleting 2006 categories for
restructuring $(7) million and $(45) million for Lenovo/Microsoft gains
and combining these items in the Other category for both years.   

Other
(income) and expense was income of $626 million and $766 million in 2007 and
2006, respectively. The decrease in income was primarily due to higher losses
on derivative instruments. The company hedges its major cross-border cash flows
to mitigate the effect of currency volatility in the year-over-year results.
The impact of these hedging programs is primarily reflected in Other (income)
and expense, as well as cost of goods sold. This year, losses from derivatives,
as a result of currency movements, resulted in $247 million of year-to-year
impact to Other (income) and expense. This decrease in income was partially
offset by a gain from the divestiture of the printing business in the second
quarter and sales of Lenovo stock in the first and second quarters of 2007 (see
note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on pages 80 and 81 for additional
information).  

Research, Development and Engineering    

29  

The
increase in Research, development and engineering (RD E) expense was
primarily driven by acquisitions and investments to maintain technology
leadership across the product offerings. Software spending increased $339
million partially offset by lower Systems and Technology spending of $204
million in 2007 versus 2006. Retirement-related expense increased $13 million
in 2007 versus 2006, while stock-based compensation expense decreased $21
million year over year.  

Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income    

The
timing and amount of Sales and other transfers of IP may vary significantly
from period to period depending upon timing of divestitures, industry
consolidation, economic conditions and the timing of new patents and know-how
development. There were no significant IP transactions in 2007 and 2006.  

Interest Expense    

The
increase in Interest expense was primarily due to the increase in debt to
finance the ASR agreements. See note M,  Stockholders  Equity,  on
pages 92 and 93 for additional information regarding this transaction.
Interest expense is presented in Cost of Financing in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings only if the related external borrowings are to support
the Global Financing external business. See page 54 for additional
information regarding Global Financing debt and interest expense.  

Stock-Based Compensation   

Total
pre-tax stock-based compensation cost of $713 million decreased $134 million
compared to 2006. The decrease was principally the result of a reduction in the
level of stock option grants ($159 million), offset by an increase related to
restricted and performance-based stock units ($25 million). The effects of
stock-based compensation cost related to the divestiture of the printing
business (a decrease of $1 million) were included in Other (income) and expense
in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The year-to-year reductions in
pre-tax stock-based compensation cost were reflected in the following
categories: Cost ($50 million); SG A expense ($61 million); RD E
expense ($21 million) and Other (income) and expense ($1 million).  

There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at
December 31, 2007 and 2006.  

See note T,  Stock-Based Compensation,  on pages 102 to 105 for
additional information on the company s stock-based incentive awards.  

Retirement-Related Benefits   

The
following table provides the total pre-tax cost for all retirement-related
plans. Cost amounts are included as an addition to the cost and expense amounts
in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the caption (e.g., Cost,
SG A, RD E) relating to the job function of the plan participants.  

Overall,
retirement-related plan costs increased $169 million versus 2006.  

The increase in retirement-related plan costs was driven primarily as a
result of changes in retirement plan assumptions as well as the impact of
changes in foreign currency.  

Retirement-related plan costs increased approximately $131 million in
Cost, $21 million in SG A expense, $13 million in RD E expense and $5
million in Other (income) and expense year to year. See note U,
 Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 105 to 116 for additional
information on the company s benefit plans including a description of the
plans, plan financial information and assumptions.  

Management
  Discussion   

14   

Road
  Map  

14  

Forward-Looking
  and Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management
  Discussion Snapshot  

16  

Description
  of Business  

17  

Year
  in Review   

23   

Prior
  Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued
  Operations  

42  

Other
  Information  

42  

Global
  Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

30  

Acquired Intangible Asset Amortization   

The
company has been investing in targeted acquisitions primarily in its Software
and Global Services segments to increase its capabilities in higher value
market segments. The following table presents the total acquired intangible
asset amortization included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. See note
I,  Intangible Assets Including Goodwill,  on pages 84 and 85 for
additional information.  

* Reclassified to conform with 2007 presentation of Services
and Selling, general and administrative expense categories.   

   NM   Not
meaningful   

Income Taxes   

The
effective tax rate for 2007 was 28.1 percent, compared with 29.3 percent in
2006. The 1.2 point decrease was primarily driven by the absence of the
one-time tax cost associated with the intercompany transfer of certain
intellectual property in the fourth quarter of 2006 (4.3 points) and the
absence of the benefit from the settlement of the U.S. federal income tax audit
for the years 2001 through 2003, also in the fourth quarter of 2006 (3.0
points). The company also benefitted in 2007 from a more favorable mix of
income in lower tax rate jurisdictions and increased capital loss and state
credit benefits, offset by a reduction in certain tax incentives.  

Earnings Per Share   

Basic
earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of
shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per
share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of
common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding
during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common
shares include outstanding stock options, stock awards, convertible notes and shares
which may be required to settle ASR agreements.  

NM   Not
meaningful   

Actual
shares outstanding at December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2006 were
1,385.2 million and 1,506.5 million, respectively. The average number of common
shares outstanding assuming dilution was 103.0 million shares lower in 2007
versus 2006. The decrease was primarily the result of the company s common
share repurchase program. See note M,  Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on
pages 92 and 93 for additional information regarding common share
activities. Also see note R,  Earnings Per Share of Common Stock,  on
page 101.  

FINANCIAL
POSITION   

Dynamics   

The
assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant
part of the company s financial position. The financial position amounts
appearing below and on pages 32 to 35 are the consolidated amounts
including Global Financing. The amounts appearing in the separate Global
Financing section are supplementary data presented to facilitate an
understanding of the Global Financing business.  

In 2007, the company repurchased $18.8 billion of its outstanding
common stock, of which $12.5 billion was the initial purchase price of the
shares repurchased through ASR agreements. Under the agreements, which were
executed on May 25, 2007, the company repurchased 118.8 million shares
from three banks for an initial price of $105.18 per share. The banks were
expected to purchase an equivalent number of shares in the open market in the
nine month period following May 25, 2007. As discussed in note M,
 Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on pages 92 and 93, the initial price of
the ASR is  

31  

subject
to an adjustment based on the volume weighted average price of the shares
during this period and this adjustment will be recorded in Stockholders  equity
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on each of the settlement
dates. The first settlement occurred on September 6, 2007, resulting in a
settlement payment by the company of $151.8 million; the second settlement
occurred on December 5, 2007, resulting in a settlement payment by the
company of $253.1 million. The final settlement is expected to occur in
March 2008.  

The ASR transaction was guaranteed by the company and was executed
through IBM International Group (IIG), a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of the
company. The formation of IIG enabled the company to create a centralized
foreign holding subsidiary to own most of its non-U.S. operations. IIG funded
the repurchases with $1 billion in cash and an $11.5 billion, 364-day bridge
loan with a number of financial institutions. The bridge loan was guaranteed by
the company and carries an interest rate of the LIBOR plus 10 basis points.
Principal and interest on IIG debt will be paid by IIG with cash generated by
its non-U.S. operating subsidiaries. The execution of the ASR enabled the
company to achieve a substantial share reduction, a lower cost of capital and
an effective use of non-U.S. cash.  

In the second half of 2007, IBM International Group Capital LLC (IIGC),
an indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of the company, issued $4.1 billion in
long-term debt and $2.8 billion in commercial paper. These proceeds were
utilized to refinance the bridge loan associated with the ASR. In addition,
approximately $750 million of the original amount has been repaid. At
December 31, 2007, the outstanding balance of the bridge loan was $3.9
billion.  

In addition, on January 29, 2008, IIGC issued $3.5 billion of
18-month floating rate notes. The proceeds will be utilized to further reduce
the bridge loan associated with the ASR.  

Consistent with retirement and postretirement plan accounting
standards, the company remeasures the funded status of its plans at
December 31. The funded status is measured as the difference between the
fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation. The funded status is
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. (See note A,
 Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 69 and 70 for additional
information). At December 31, 2007, as a result of the company s plan
contributions, returns on plan assets and changes in certain retirement plan
assumptions, the overall net funded status improved $7.2 billion from
December 31, 2006 to a net over-funded position of $3.3 billion. This
change is primarily reflected in Prepaid pension assets in the Consolidated
Statement of financial position which increased $6.8 billion from the prior
year-end balance.  

In addition, Stockholders  equity improved $4.7 billion as a result of
changes from pension remeasurements and current year activity within
Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. See note U,
 Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 105 to 116 for additional
information.  

Working Capital   

Working
capital increased $4,298 million compared to the prior year primarily as a
result of a net increase in Current assets. The key drivers are described
below:  

Current assets increased $8,517 million due to:  

An increase of $5,490 million in Cash and cash equivalents
and Marketable securities including a $299 million currency impact. See Cash
Flow analysis on page 33.  

An increase of $1,941 million in short-term receivables
driven by:  

increase of $460 million in
financing receivables due to asset growth in commercial financing and client
loans; and   

approximately $1,325 million
currency impact.   

An increase of $1,351 million in Prepaid expenses and other
current assets primarily resulting from:  

an increase of $335 million in
derivative assets primarily due to changes in foreign currency rates for
certain cash flow hedges;   

an increase of $164 million due
to prepaid software for services contracts ($94 million) and maintenance
agreements ($70 million);   

an
increase of $170 million in prepaid taxes;  

an
increase of $128 million in deferred services arrangements transition costs;
and  

approximately $158 million
currency impact.   

Current
liabilities increased $4,220 million as a result of:  

An increase of $3,333 million in Short-term debt primarily
driven by increases in commercial paper;  

An increase of $1,215 million in Deferred income mainly
driven by Software ($502 million) and Global Technology Services ($543
million);  

Management
  Discussion   

14   

Road
  Map  

14  

Forward-Looking
  and Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management
  Discussion Snapshot  

16  

Description
  of Business  

17  

Year
  in Review   

23   

Prior
  Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued
  Operations  

42  

Other
  Information  

42  

Global
  Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

32  

An increase of $528 million
in Other accrued liabilities primarily due to an increase in derivative
liabilities as a result of changes in foreign currency rates for hedges of net
investment; partially offset by  

A decrease of $997 million
in Taxes payable primarily due to the adoption of FASB Interpretation Number
(FIN) 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes  (FIN 48); consistent
with the provisions of FIN 48, $2,066 million of income tax liabilities on January
1, 2007 was reclassified from current to noncurrent liabilities; this was
offset by current year income tax activity.  

Cash Flow   

The company s cash flow from
operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows on page 60, is summarized in the following table. These
amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business.
See pages 52 through 55.  

Net
cash from operating activities for 2007 increased $1,075 million as compared to
2006 driven by the following key factors:  

An increase in net income of $925 million;  

A decrease in cash related to deferred income taxes of $984
million primarily due to the impact of pension activity;  

Retirement-related cash flows increased $622 million
primarily due to lower pension funding of $795 million year to year;  

Growth in accounts receivable drove a use of cash of $896
million; this was driven by Global Financing receivables ($1,045 million) as a
result of asset growth;  

Other assets/other liabilities drove an increase in cash of
$1,587 million primarily resulting from:  

an increase in cash from tax liabilities of $1,185 million
mainly driven by an increase in income tax provisions and reserves; and  

an increase in cash from deferred income of $398 million
primarily due to prepayment of future services to be provided to Infoprint.  

Net
cash used in investing activities decreased $6,874 million on a year-to-year
basis driven by:  

The net impact of the purchases and sales of marketable
securities and other investments resulted in an increase in cash of $4,006 million;  

A decrease of $2,790 million utlized
for acquisitions (see note C,  Acquisit  ions/Divestitures, 
on pages 76 to 78 for additional information); and  

An increase of $310 million received from divestitures
driven by the printing business transaction;  

Partially
offset by:  

An increase in net capital spending of $231 million
resulting from:  

an increase of $160 million primarily driven by Global
Technology Services to support the outsourcing business; and  

an increase of $71 million in capitalized
software development expenditures.  

Net
cash used in financing activities decreased $3,464 million compared to 2006 as
a result of:  

An increase of $12,233 million in net
cash proceeds from debt transactions   primarily from issuances in support of the ASR; and  

An increase of $2,438 million due to higher other common
stock transactions mainly due to stock option exercises;  

Partially
offset by:  

Higher common stock repurchases of
$10,744 million driven by the ASR; and  

Higher dividend payments of $464 million as a result of the
increase in the common stock dividend from $1.10 to $1.50 per share.  

Within
total debt, on a net basis, the company had $12,112 million in net cash
proceeds from new debt versus $121 million in net cash used in 2006 to retire
debt. The net proceeds from new debt in 2007 was comprised of: $21,744 million
of new debt issuances and $1,674 million in net short-term borrowings,
partially offset by $11,306 million in cash payments to settle debt. See note
J,  Borrowings,  on pages 85 to 88 for a listing of the company s debt
securities.  

Noncurrent Assets and Liabilities   

33  

The
increase in Noncurrent assets of $8,680 million compared to the prior year-end
balance was primarily driven by:  

An increase of $6,788 million ($505 million due to currency)
in Prepaid pension assets primarily resulting from an increase in overfunded
pension plans reflecting year-end remeasurements;  

An increase of $1,535 million ($526
million due to currency) in Long-term   financing
receivables mainly due to increased Global Financing volumes;  

An increase of $1,431 million ($347 million due to currency)
in Goodwill driven by acquisitions in 2007; and  

An increase of $642 million in Plant, rental machines and
other property (net) effectively all due to currency effects.  

These
increases were partially offset by:  

A decrease of $1,621 million in Investments and sundry
assets primarily resulting from:  

a decrease of $2,367 million in
noncurrent deferred tax assets pri  marily
related to the pension remeasurements;  

growth of $243 million in noncurrent deferred transition
costs driven by an increase in long-term services arrangements with clients;
and  

$170 million due to increased investments in long-term
marketable securities.  

Long-term
debt increased $9,259 million due to new borrowings in 2007 primarily to
finance the ASR agreements. See note M,  Stock holders 
Equity Activity,  on pages 92 and 93 for detailed discussion.   

Other
Noncurrent liabilities, excluding debt, increased $3,755 million primarily
driven by:  

An increase in noncurrent tax reserves of $2,107 million as
a result of a reclassification from current ($2,066 million) related to FIN 48
implementation and current year activity;  

Growth of $558 million in noncurrent deferred income mainly
driven by Global Technology Services;  

An increase of $399 million in noncurrent deferred tax
liabilities primarily due to pension remeasurement; and  

An
increase of $298 million in long-term derivative liabilities due to changes in
foreign currency rates for hedge of net investments.  

Debt   

The
company s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are
executed to manage the overall asset and liability pro file. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to
access  global funding sources as needed.  

The
Global Financing business provides funding predominantly for the company s
external client assets as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units.
These assets, primarily for Global Services, generate long-term, stable revenue
streams similar to the Global  Financing
asset portfolio. Based on their nature, these Global Services  assets are
leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base. The debt
analysis above is further detailed in the Global Financing section on page 54.  

Non-Global
Financing debt increased $10,348 million and the debt-to-capital ratio at December
31, 2007 was 30.0 percent. Non-Global Financing debt increased versus 2006
primarily due to the financing of the ASR agreements in the second quarter of
2007. The debt-to-capital ratio was 46.7 percent at June 30, 2007. A reduction
of $1,034 million in non-Global Financing debt and an increase of $11,554
million in equity has reduced the ratio from the half-year point. See note M,  Stockholders 
Equity Activity,  on pages 92 and 93 for detailed information.  

Equity   

The
company s consolidated Stockholders  equity decreased $36 million in 2007 as a
result of several key factors:  

A decrease related to net stock
transactions of $13,732 million, driven by common stock repurchases which
resulted in an increase in Treasury stock in 2007.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review   

23   

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

34  

This
reduction was offset by:  

An increase of $8,208 million in retained earnings primarily
driven by net income of $10,418 million, partially offset by dividends ($2,147
million); and  

An increase of $5,487 million in Accumulated gains and
(losses) not affecting retained earnings primarily resulting from the non-cash
equity impacts related to an increase in overfunded pension plans reflecting
year-end remeasurements . 

Consolidated Fourth-Quarter Results   

* 4.2 percent
adjusted for currency.   

   NM   Not
meaningful   

CONTINUING OPERATIONS   

In the fourth quarter, the company increased Income from
continuing  operations by 14.1 percent ($487 million) to $4.0 billion
versus the fourth quarter of 2006. Diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations of $2.80 increased 23.9 percent versus the prior year. 

The
company s performance in the fourth quarter was driven by several factors:  

The strength of the company s global business model   led by
strong performance in Asia Pacific and emerging country markets, plus continued
solid performance in Europe;  

Double-digit revenue growth in the
Services and Software segments; and  

Margin expansion led by the Systems
and Technology and Software segments.  

Total
revenue in the fourth quarter of $28.9 billion increased 9.9  percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for
currency). Revenue growth  was led by the Global Services and Software
segments and, on a  geographic basis, by Asia
Pacific, EMEA and the emerging countries.   

The
two services segments together had $14.9 billion of revenue in the fourth
quarter, an increase of 16.5 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) year to
year, with double-digit revenue growth across all lines of business. Total
signings for Global Services in the fourth quarter were $15.4 billion, a
decrease of 13 percent versus the fourth quarter of 2006. Longer term signings
decreased 25 percent compared to a very strong fourth quarter in 2006. Shorter
term signings increased 8 percent. GTS revenue increased 16.4 percent (10
percent adjusted for currency), with double-digit growth across all business
lines, geographies and sectors. GTS signings decreased 9 percent in the fourth
quarter, with longer term signings decreasing 14 percent, partially offset by a
6 percent increase in shorter term signings. SO revenue increased 14.5 percent,
driven primarily by prior-year signings, the continued sales of new business in
existing accounts and good yield from current-year signings. SO signings
decreased 26 percent versus fourth-quarter 2006. ITS revenue increased 11.4
percent, with growth in all geographies, led by EMEA and Asia Pacific. ITS
signings increased 6 percent versus fourth-quarter 2006, led by double-digit
growth in the Americas. BTO revenue increased 56.5 percent with double-digit
growth in all geographies and continued strength in the Daksh business, which
increased over 40 percent year to year. BTO signings increased 147 percent year
to year. Maintenance revenue increased 16.2 percent and included services
provided to InfoPrint Solutions, which contributed 7 points of growth in the
quarter. GTS gross profit in the quarter increased 17.2 percent, with gross profit
margin improving 0.2 points, primarily driven by margin expansion in SO and
ITS. The GTS segment fourth-quarter pre-tax margin improved 0.9 points to 10.2
percent from fourth-quarter 2006. The margin improvement was driven primarily
by an improved cost structure in SO, a mix to higher value products in ITS and
good  

35  

expense management. GBS revenue increased 16.8 percent
(10 percent  adjusted for currency) with growth in all geographies and
sectors. Revenue performance was led by growth in AMS offerings and
double-digit growth across all consulting service lines. GBS signings decreased
20 percent, driven by a 48-percent decline in longer term signings when
compared to a very strong fourth quarter of 2006. Shorter term signings
increased 9 percent to $3.9 billion for the quarter, the highest level of
shorter term signings achieved in any quarter in this business. GBS gross
profit increased 9.0 percent in the quarter, with a gross margin decline of 1.7
points due to higher employee bonus compensation costs. The GBS segment
contributed $0.6 billion of pre-tax profit in the quarter, an increase of 9.2
percent versus the fourth quarter of 2006. Pre-tax profit margin declined 0.5
points to 11.3 percent driven primarily by the impact of higher employee bonus
compensation in the quarter, partially offset by improved expense productivity. 

Systems
and Technology segment revenue was $6.8 billion, a decrease of 3.9 percent as
reported (8 percent adjusted for currency), when compared to the fourth quarter
of 2006; excluding the divested printer business, revenue was essentially flat
(decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency). System z revenue decreased 15.1
percent, with revenue declines in the U.S. and EMEA, partially offset by
double-digit revenue growth in Asia Pacific. This was the tenth quarter of a
long and successful technology cycle for System z; MIPS shipments decreased 4
percent year to year. System i revenue  increased
2.0 percent driven primarily by growth in POWER6 servers.  System p
revenue grew 9.5 percent, with growth in all geographies led by double-digit
growth in Asia Pacific. This was the sixth consecutive quarter of revenue
growth for System p, driven primarily by POWER6 servers. System x revenue
increased 4.3 percent with growth in server products (6 percent) and blades (31
percent). Performance in the quarter reflected strong acceptance of the new
BladeCenter-S, which was introduced at the end of the quarter, and strong
demand for the new high-end Quad-Core processor servers. Systems Storage
revenue increased 10.8 percent, driven by growth in tape products of 22 percent
and external disk products of 7 percent. Retail Store Solutions revenue
increased 5.9 percent. Microelectronics revenue declined 15.2 percent driven by
a slowdown in demand for game processors. Segment gross margin at 45.7 percent,
improved 3.9 points versus the fourth quarter of 2006 with margin improvement
in every system brand, except System i. Systems and Technology segment pre-tax
profit increased 17.8 percent to $1.4 billion. Pre-tax margin improved 3.8
points to 19.4 percent, driven primarily by operational cost management, a mix
to higher end models within the brands and the value of the new POWER6 products
in the market.  

Software
segment revenue of $6.3 billion, increased 11.6 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency), reflecting strong execution in closing transactions in the quarter
and continued strong demand for the key branded middleware products. Revenue
growth this quarter was primarily organic, as the company wrapped around prior
year acqui sitions. Revenue from key branded
middleware increased 15.4 percent  (9 percent adjusted for currency) and
represented 58 percent of total software revenue. Revenue from the WebSphere
Family of products grew 22.8 percent in the quarter, with strong performance
tied to the industry s adoption of services-oriented architecture. Information
Management revenue increased 11.4 percent. The FileNet acquisition, now in its
second year, contributed to the revenue growth. Lotus revenue increased 6.7
percent compared to a very strong fourth quarter of 2006. This is the
thirteenth consecutive quarter of growth from Lotus software. Lotus
Connections, which was released in June 2007, has been rapidly adopted by
customers. Tivoli software revenue increased 19.0 percent with double-digit
growth in Systems Management, Security and Storage products. Rational revenue
increased 22.2 percent in the quarter, as the company s largest customers
embraced this integrated product set. Software gross profit increased 12.4
percent in the quarter, with margin improvement of 0.6 points. In addition to
the strong revenue and gross profit performance in the fourth quarter, the
Software segment delivered pre-tax profit of $2.4 billion, an increase of 20.8
percent. The pre-tax margin of 34.9 percent increased 2.6 points, reflecting
the strong revenue growth with a relatively fixed cost base.  

Global Financing revenue increased 7.7 percent (2 percent
adjusted for currency), driven primarily by increased sales of used equipment.  

From
a geographic perspective, revenue increased in all geographies, led by strong
performance in Asia Pacific, EMEA and the emerging countries. Americas  revenue
was $11.7 billion, an increase of 4.8 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted
for currency). EMEA revenue increased 16.2 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency) to $10.8 billion. Revenue increased in most of the major countries,
when adjusted for currency, led by Spain which was up 15 percent. Asia Pacific
revenue increased 14.7 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency) to $5.5
billion, led by growth in the India, Greater China, Australia/New Zealand,
ASEAN and Korea regions. Collectively, these regions increased 20.3 percent,
adjusted for currency, versus the fourth quarter of 2006. The emerging BRIC
countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China together grew 29.4 percent (18
percent  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review   

23   

Prior Year in Review   

37   

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

36  

adjusted for currency). In addition to the BRIC markets,
there are many other nations with a similar profile that have demonstrated
rapidly growing markets with strong demand for business and IT infrastructure
solutions.  In December 2007, the company announced a new organization
and management structure aimed at continuing to capture these opportunities. 

Total
expense and other income increased 8.6 percent compared to the fourth quarter
of 2006. Total expense and other income to revenue ratio improved 0.3 points to
25.9 percent. Selling, general and administrative expense increased 7.0 percent
(3 percent adjusted for currency), primarily driven by currency, continuing
investments in key markets and acquisitions and increased accounts receivable
provisions. Interest expense was $214 million, an increase of $144 million
versus the fourth quarter of 2006. The higher level of interest expense was
primarily driven by the increased debt utilized to fund the ASR agreements in
the second quarter. Other (income) and expense was $98 million of income, a
reduction of $52 million (34.5 percent) versus the fourth quarter of 2006. A
reduction in gains on real estate transactions and losses from foreign currency
transactions were partially offset by increased interest income due to higher
cash balances.  

The
company s effective tax rate in the fourth-quarter 2007 was 28.0 percent, flat
when compared to the fourth-quarter 2006 rate.  

Share
repurchases totaled approximately $0.5 billion in the fourth quarter, including
$0.3 billion related to the settlement of the ASR agreements (see note M,  Stockholders
Equity Activity,  on pages 92 and 93). The weighted-average number of diluted
common shares outstanding in the fourth quarter of 2007 was 1,412.9 million
compared with 1,532.5 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.  

The
company generated $5,151 million in cash flow provided by operating activities,
driven primarily by net income. Net cash from investing activities was a source
of cash of $1,098 million in fourth quarter of 2007 versus a use of cash of
$5,634 million in the fourth quarter of 2006, resulting primarily from the
disposition of higher levels of short term marketable securities.  

Prior Year in Review     

* Flat adjusted
for currency.   

   ** Reflects
implementation of FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset
Retirement Obligations.  See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on page 75 for additional
information.   

  +   At December
31.  

   NM   Not
meaningful   

37  

Continuing Operations   

The
company s 2006 performance was the result of a series of actions taken over the
last several years to steadily transform the company.  The company has divested of businesses that are commoditizing, while  investing
in targeted acquisitions to continue to build capabilities in higher value
areas. The company has also been focused on increasing productivity, to expand
margins and improve efficiency. In addition, it has accelerated its move to
become a globally integrated company.  These
actions have resulted in a more balanced mix of businesses and a   stronger, more competitive and sustainable global
business. The com pany s 2006 financial results reflected this improved
business model.  

The
company divested its Personal Computing business on April  30, 2005. Therefore, the reported results for
2006 did not include any  activity for the Personal Computing Division,
while the results for  2005 included four
months of activity. This lack of comparable periods  had a material
impact on the company s reported revenue growth.  

Total
revenue, as reported, increased 0.3 percent versus 2005; excluding the Personal
Computing business external revenue from 2005, total 2006 revenue increased 3.6
percent (3.2 percent adjusted for currency). Pre-tax income from continuing
operations grew 8.9 percent, while diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations increased 23.4 percent compared to 2005. Income from continuing
operations increased 17.8 percent compared to 2005, benefiting from a 5.3 point
improvement in the effective tax rate year to year.  

The
increased revenue, excluding the Personal Computing business, in 2006 as
compared to 2005, was primarily due to:  

Improved demand in the Software business, driven by Key
Branded Middleware products, with positive contributions from key acquisitions;  

Increased demand in the Systems and
Technology business driven by Micro  electronics,
System z and Storage; growth in System x and Retail Store Solutions; and  

Continued growth in the emerging countries, Brazil, Russia,
India and  China, (up 21 percent) and solid
performance in the Americas and   EMEA 
geographies.  

The
increased income from continuing operations before income taxes in 2006 as
compared to 2005 was primarily due to:  

Revenue growth in the Software segment as discussed above;  

Continued execution of the company s productivity
initiatives driving improved Global Services gross margins; and  

Revenue growth and continued operational improvement in the
Microelectronics business.  

Total
revenue, as reported, increased 0.3 percent (flat adjusted for currency) versus
2005. From a geographic perspective, as-reported revenue performance was mixed
in 2006 compared to 2005, with growth in the Americas and EMEA, being offset by
decreased revenue in Asia Pacific.  

Americas 
revenue increased 1.8 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus
2005 and increased in all regions with the  U.S.
up 1.0 percent, Canada 2.4 percent (decreased 4 percent adjusted  for
currency) and Latin America 8.6 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency).  

EMEA
revenue increased 0.2 percent on an as-reported basis (declined 1 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2006 when compared to  2005. In the major countries, the U.K. increased 0.5 percent (decreased
 1 percent adjusted for currency), France increased 1.6 percent (flat
adjusted for currency), Italy increased 1.6 percent (flat adjusted for
currency) and Spain increased 2.1 percent (flat adjusted for currency). Revenue
in Germany declined 2.8 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year.  

Asia
Pacific revenue declined 5.7 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) year
over year. Japan, which represented over 50 percent of  the Asia Pacific revenue base, declined 10.1 percent (5 percent adjusted 
for currency). The Japan revenue decline was partially offset by increased
revenue in Korea (12.6 percent) and India (22.9 percent).  

The
emerging countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China together grew 9.9 percent
(5 percent adjusted for currency) as the company continued to invest to build
capabilities in these countries. Brazil grew 15.4 percent (4 percent adjusted
for currency), Russia increased 13.9 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency)
and India increased 22.9 percent (26 percent adjusted for currency). China
declined 0.3 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) as performance was
significantly impacted by the Personal Computing divestiture.  

OEM
revenue increased 17.9 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006
driven by strong demand for game processors in the Microelectronics business.  

The
company believes that a more appropriate revenue analysis is one that excludes
the revenue results of the Personal Computing Division in 2005 because it
presents results on a comparable basis and provides a more meaningful focus on
the company s ongoing operational performance.  

Total
revenue, excluding the divested Personal Computing business, increased 3.6
percent (3.2 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2005. Adjusted for currency,
revenue increased in all geographic markets with the strongest growth coming
from the Americas.  

Americas 
revenue grew 4.7 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency), with
growth in all regions. From a product  perspective,
the increased revenue was driven by software. Latin   

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review   

37   

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

38  

America led the regions with growth of 14.4 percent (9 percent adjusted
for currency). Brazil grew 18.9 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency). The
U.S. increased 3.6 percent and Canada grew 6.5 percent (flat adjusted for
currency).  

EMEA
revenue increased 3.2 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006 when
compared with 2005, with revenue growth in all the major countries, except Germany.
Revenue increased in the U.K. 3.0 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency),
France 4.0 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) Spain 4.1 percent (2
percent adjusted for currency) and Italy 3.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for
currency). Germany declined a modest 0.3 percent as reported (2 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2006 when compared to 2005. Russia grew 21.1 percent
(21 percent adjusted for currency).  

Asia
Pacific revenue declined 0.8 percent (increased 2 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2006 versus the prior year. Although Japan revenue declined 7.5
percent (2 percent adjusted for currency), its performance improved
sequentially throughout 2006 and returned to growth in the fourth quarter;
partially offsetting the revenue decline in Japan was growth in other Asia
Pacific regions. China grew 15.8 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency),
Korea grew 14.2 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) and India increased
38.5 percent (42 percent adjusted for currency).  

For
the year, the company benefited from solid contributions from the emerging
countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China. Collectively, revenue from these
four countries increased 20.5 percent (16 percent adjusted for currency) in
2006 versus 2005.  

OEM
revenue increased 17.9 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006
versus 2005 driven by strong game processor demand in the Microelectronics
business.  

The
following is an analysis of the reportable segment results for Global Services,
Systems and Technology and Software. The Global Financing segment analysis is
included in the Global Financing section on page 51.  

GLOBAL SERVICES   

GTS
revenue increased 2.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). SO revenue
increased 3.2 percent due primarily to signings growth in 2005 and a continued
focus on increasing sales in existing accounts. ITS revenue decreased 1.2
percent. The rate of revenue growth in ITS improved during the second half of
2006 reflecting progress from the changes implemented throughout the year to
improve the business, including streamlining offerings and aligning skills to
address higher growth and higher value areas. The acquisi tion of ISS, added to the company s capabilities in
security and intru sion protection and contributed to improved
performance in the fourth quarter of 2006. BTO revenue increased 17.2 percent.
Maintenance revenue increased 2.0 percent driven by increased availability
services on non-IBM IT equipment, primarily in the Americas and Asia Pacific.  

GBS
revenue increased 0.4 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency). The rate of
year-over-year revenue growth in GBS increased in the second half of 2006
reflecting progress made on actions taken throughout the year that focused on
operational transformation and profitable growth initiatives.  

The GTS segment pre-tax margin was 9.6 percent, an
increase of 1.9 points versus 2005. This increase and the gross margin increase
were driven by productivity initiatives and cost efficiencies, including
benefits from the targeted restructuring action in the second quarter of 2005.  

GBS gross profit increased 19.6 percent to $3.7 billion
and gross margin improved 3.7 points versus 2005. The segment pre-tax margin
was 9.8 percent, an improvement of 5.3 points versus 2005. In addition to the
benefit received from the incremental restructuring in the second quarter of
2005, the margin improvements were   driven
by improved utilization, better contract management and   stable-to-improved pricing.  

39  

SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY   

Systems
and Technology revenue increased 4.7 percent (4 percent  adjusted for currency) in 2006 versus 2005. System z revenue increased  7.8
percent reflecting continued strong customer acceptance of both specialty
engines for Linux and Java workloads and traditional mainframe workloads. MIPS
shipments increased 11 percent versus 2005. System x revenue increased 3.7
percent driven by increased server revenue (5.3 percent) and System x blades
growth of 22.3 percent. Although System p revenue declined 1.1 percent for the
year, high-end server revenue increased 9.4 percent. In the third quarter of
2006, the company completed its transition to POWER5+ and expanded the
implementation of POWER Quadcore technology to all POWER-based entry level
System p products. System i revenue declined 15.0 percent as the company
completed its transition to POWER5+ in the third quarter of 2006, however
clients continued to leverage their existing capacity.  

Systems
Storage revenue increased 6.4 percent and was driven by Total disk growth of
7.8 percent, while tape grew 3.1 percent. Within Total disk, mid-range disk
revenue increased 16.5 percent and storage area network products increased 10.6
percent, while enterprise products revenue declined 6.7 percent. The revenue
increase in tape products was primarily driven by the new tape security
offering which includes unique encryption capabilities.  

Microelectronics
revenue increased 21.9 percent due to strong  demand
in the game processor business and networking components.   

Retail
Store Solutions revenue increased 21.4 percent primarily due to clients
replacing older technology in favor of integrated retail solutions. Printing
Systems revenue decreased 7.6 percent due primarily to lower maintenance
revenue as a result of a declining install base and lower sales of hardware
products.  

Systems
and Technology gross profit margin declined 2.7 points to 37.7 percent in 2006
versus 2005. The decline in gross profit margin was driven by revenue mix
towards lower margin products in 2006 versus 2005 (2.5 points) and pricing
pressure in the low- and middle-range server brands. Segment pre-tax margin was
7.5 percent, down 1.0 point versus the prior year.  

SOFTWARE   

* Reclassified to
conform with 2006 presentation.   

Software
segment revenue increased 7.9 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) in 2006
versus 2005 reflecting strong demand for the company s industry-leading
middleware capabilities. The revenue growth was driven from both organic
sources and acquisitions.  

Key
Branded Middleware revenue increased 17.1 percent, reflecting continued
momentum and benefit from sales and development investments along with
additional benefit from acquisitions.  

Revenue
from the WebSphere family of products increased 23.3 percent and was led by
double-digit growth in WebSphere Application Servers (25.3 percent) and
WebSphere Business Integration (22.7 percent) software.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review   

37   

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

40  

Information
Management revenue increased 14.0 percent. Growth was driven by the Information
on Demand portfolio of software products. The acquisition of FileNet
Corporation, during the fourth quarter of 2006, also contributed to the growth.  

Lotus revenue increased 12.0 percent driven by the
Notes/Domino  family of collaboration products. 

Tivoli
revenue increased 26.3 percent with double-digit growth in each of its key
segments: Systems Management (24.5 percent), Security (40.8 percent) and
Storage (27.4 percent). The 2006 acquisitions of Micromuse, Inc. in the first
quarter and MRO Software, Inc. in the fourth quarter added to the Tivoli brand
capabilities and contributed to the revenue growth.  

Rational
revenue increased 4.4 percent in 2006 versus 2005, in a slower growing market.
Revenue from Other Middleware products declined 0.6 percent in 2006. This
product set includes more mature products which provide a more stable flow of
revenue.  

Operating
Systems revenue declined 6.3 percent. The decline in revenue was primarily
driven by improved price performance in System z operating systems. PLM revenue
increased 4.2 percent. This product set benefited from a number of large
transactions in the second quarter of 2006.  

The
increase in Software gross profit dollars and gross profit margin was primarily
driven by the growth in Software revenue.  

The
Software segment contributed $5.5 billion of pre-tax profit in 2006, an
increase of 14.9 percent versus 2005. Pre-tax profit margins improved 1.5
points to 26.9 percent.  

GLOBAL FINANCING   

See page 51 for a discussion of Global Financing s revenue
and gross profit.  

TOTAL EXPENSE AND OTHER INCOME   

Total
expense and other income increased 2.8 percent versus 2005. Overall, the
increase was primarily due to increased Research, development and engineering
expense driven by acquisitions and lower Other (income) and expense income
driven by the gains associated with the sale of the Personal Computing business
and the Microsoft Corporation settlement in 2005. Those increases were
partially offset by lower SG A expense due primarily to the restructuring
charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005. The expense-to-revenue ratio
increased 0.7 points to 27.3 percent in 2006, as revenue increased 0.3 percent
and expense increased 2.8 percent in 2006 versus 2005.  

Total
SG A expense of $20,259 million decreased 4.9 percent versus 2005. The
decrease was primarily driven by the restructuring charges recorded in the
second quarter of 2005. In addition, retire ment-related
expense and stock-based compensation decreased versus  2005. Those
decreases were partially offset by increased operational expenses as a result
of strategic acquisitions and investments in the software and services
businesses as well as emerging countries.  

Other
(income) and expense was income of $766 million and  $2,122 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in income  was
primarily driven by the $1,108 million pre-tax gain on the sale of the Personal
Computing business in 2005. In addition, the company settled certain antitrust
issues with the Microsoft Corporation in 2005 and the gain from this settlement
was $775 million. Income from certain real estate activities decreased year to
year, as 2005 had unusually large gains from a few transactions. Partially
offsetting those decreases were additional Interest income; foreign currency
transaction gains in 2006 versus losses in 2005 and real estate related
restructuring charges recorded in the second quarter of 2005.  

RD E
expense of $6,107 million increased 4.5 percent primarily driven by
acquisitions and investments to maintain technology leadership across the
product offerings. Software spending increased $210 million and Systems and
Technology spending increased $92 million in 2006 versus 2005. These increases
were partially offset by the year-to-year reduction in Personal Computing of
$52 million due to the divestiture of that business in 2005.  

Intellectual
property and custom development income of $900 million decreased $48 million or
5.0 percent versus 2005. There were no significant IP transactions in 2006 and
2005.  

Interest
expense of $278 million increased $58 million, or 26.6 percent in 2006,
primarily driven by higher effective interest rates year to year.  

INCOME TAXES   

The
provision for income taxes resulted in an effective tax rate of 29.3 percent
for 2006, compared with the 2005 effective tax rate of 34.6 percent. The 5.3
point improvement in the tax rate was driven by the absence of the foreign
earnings repatriation-related tax charge recorded in the third quarter of 2005
(4.3 points) as well as a benefit from the fourth-quarter 2006 settlement of
the U.S. federal income tax audit for the years 2001 through 2003 (3.0 points).
Those benefits were partially offset by a one-time tax cost associated with the
2006 intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property (4.3 points).  

41  

FINANCIAL POSITION   

Total assets of $103,234
million declined $2,514 million ($6,223 million adjusted for currency)
primarily due to lower prepaid pension assets and a decrease in Cash and cash
equivalents. These decreases were partially offset by increases in Goodwill,
long-term deferred tax assets, Marketable Securities, trade receivables,
financing receivables and Intangible Assets.  

Total
liabilities of $74,728 million increased $2,078 million (down $362 million
adjusted for currency) primarily driven by Compensation and benefits, Deferred
income and Accounts payable. Partially offsetting those increases were
decreases in long-term deferred tax and restructuring liabilities.  

Stockholders 
equity decreased $4,592 million to $28,506 million primarily driven by
retirement-related charges and net common stock transactions, partially offset
by increased Retained earnings. The retirement-related driven decrease in
Stockholders  equity and the decrease in prepaid pension assets were a result
of the adoption of SFAS No. 158 in 2006.  

The
company generated $15,019 million in cash flow provided by operating
activities, an increase of $105 million compared to 2005. The increase was
primarily driven by increased net income ($1,559 million), lower pension
funding in 2006 ($549 million) and an increase in cash driven by Accounts
payable ($891 million) primarily resulting from the divestiture of the Personal
Computing business in 2005. These increases were partially offset by growth in
accounts receivable ($2,731 million) primarily driven by asset growth in Global
Financing and a decrease in cash related to deferred income taxes ($461
million), due to utilization of tax credit carryforwards in 2005. Net cash used
in investing increased $7,126 million versus 2005 primarily due to net
purchases of marketable securities and other investments ($2,668 million),
increased spending on acquisitions ($2,316 million), increased net capital
spending ($1,210 million) and a decline in divestiture-related cash proceeds
($932 million). Net cash used in financing activities increased $1,057 million
primarily due to higher dividend payments ($434 million) and increased net cash
used to retire debt ($730 million).  

Discontinued Operations     

On December 31, 2002, the
company sold its HDD business to Hitachi for approximately $2 billion. The
final cash payment of $399 million was received on December 30, 2005. In
addition, the company paid Hitachi $80 million to settle warranty obligations
during 2005. These transactions were consistent with the company s previous
estimates. The HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued operation
whereby the results of operations and cash flows were removed from the
company s results from continuing operations for all periods presented.  

In
2006, the company reported net income of $76 million, net of tax, primarily
related to tax benefits from tax audit settlements. The company incurred a loss
from discontinued operations of $24 million in 2005, net of tax. This loss was
primarily due to additional costs associated with parts warranty as agreed upon
by the company and Hitachi, under the terms of the agreement for the sale of
the HDD business to Hitachi.  

Other Information     

Looking
Forward      

Looking forward, the company
enters 2008 in an excellent operational and financial position.  

The
company has a significant global presence, operating in 170 countries, with
approximately 63 percent of its revenue generated outside the U.S. In addition,
approximately 69 percent of the company s employees are located outside the
United States, including about 35 percent in Asia Pacific. This global reach
gives the company access to markets, with well-established organizations and
management systems who understand the clients and their challenges and who can
respond to these opportunities with value-add solutions. The company s
transformation to a globally integrated enterprise provides the capabilities to
service clients globally and deliver the best skills and cost from anywhere in
the world.  

In
emerging markets, the company will continue to invest for revenue growth and
leadership. The company is focused on identifying growth opportunities and
following a disciplined investment policy to capitalize on these opportunities.
The company has had good success in the emerging markets of Brazil, Russia,
India and China. In addition, there are additional opportunities around the
world that are growing at a rapid rate; countries and markets within Southeast
Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America that have market growth
rates greater than the global average.  Through
its investments, the company has developed extensive capabilities in emerging
countries to capture these growth opportunities. In 2008, the company will also
implement a new organization and management structure that will focus on these
emerging nations and markets.  

The
company is a proven infrastructure provider of IT technology. Through its
history, the company has built the infrastructure in most countries that are
now considered to have  mature  economies. This track record will enable the
company to capture opportunities in new, expanding markets worldwide. The
company s broad product and services portfolio delivers value to clients   
through a combination of services, hardware and software. The portfolio is
focused on 

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review   

37   

Discontinued Operations   

42   

Other Information   

42   

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

42  

high-value solutions that can deliver measurable benefit to clients
with offerings that can address a wide scope of client issues including: energy
savings, security and resiliency, risk management and cost reduction among many
others.  

The company remains committed to
technology leadership and will continue to focus internal investments,
complemented with strategic acquisitions, on high-value, high-growth
opportunities. The company invested over $6 billion in RD E in 2007 and
approximately $30 billion over the past five years.  

In addition, the company s
financial position is strong. Through its efficient cash generation business
model based on disciplined  balance sheet management, in 2007, the company generated
$12.4 billion in free cash flow and ended the year with $16.1 billion in cash
and marketable securities. This provides the company with the financial
flexibility for investments in changing business environments. The company also
has a significant annuity content in its business which reduces its business
risk versus more transaction-dependent business models. 

In May 2007, the company met with
investors and analysts and discussed a road map to deliver earnings per share
in 2010 in the range of $10 to $11 per share, or 14 to 16 percent compound
growth rate from 2006. The company s 2010 road map is to generate earnings per
share growth through a combination of revenue growth, margin improvement,
growth initiatives, acquisitions, the current projected benefit of
retirement-related cost and effective capital deployment to fund growth and provide
returns to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.  

The company s performance in 2007
highlighted the benefits of its global reach and the strength of its business
model. The financial results reflected solid progress on major elements of the
long-term goals, however, the company measures the success of its business
model over the long term, not any individual quarter or year. The company s
strategies, investments and actions are all taken with an objective of
optimizing long-term performance.  

The continued investments in
Software have led to this segment s emergence as a strong source of revenue
growth and the largest contributor to the company s profit in 2007. The
Software business is differentiated in the industry by both the strength of its
individual products and the breadth of the software offerings. The key to
continued Software growth stems from the ability to maintain and grow this
industry-leading software business, and by continuing to capitalize on industry
trends such as SOA and Information on Demand. The company expects to accomplish
this through a combination of internal development and strategic acquisitions.
These products will be rapidly developed and integrated to bring continued
value to clients.  

Within the Global Services
business, revenue and profit growth improved and the company saw significant
results from the targeted actions and investments it has made the last few
years. The Global Services business enters 2008 with a revenue backlog of $118
billion, an increase of $2 billion from the prior year. The portfolio is strong
with a complement of offerings and capabilities that deliver both high value
and productivity to clients. The overall Global Services business is
well-positioned going forward.  

In the Systems and Technology
business, the company will focus its investments on differentiating
technologies with high-growth potential including POWER6, BladeCenter-S,
high-performance computing, virtualization and energy efficiency. The
transition to POWER6 technology will be completed in the first half of 2008.
New POWER-based virtualization offerings will be announced to extend the
company s lead in UNIX virtualization. The next generation mainframe product
will be available beginning late in the  first quarter   that quarter will likely be a period of
transition with benefits coming in the second quarter. This product will have
fifty percent more capacity than the current system and will extend the
company s leadership in energy efficiency, security and resiliency. The
December, 2007 acquisition of XIV will strengthen the storage portfolio with
solutions based on XIV architecture expected to be announced in 2008. 

The company expects 2008 pre-tax
retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $1.6 billion   a decrease of
$950 million to $1 billion compared to 2007. This estimate reflects current
pension plan assumptions and the impacts of pension plan redesign efforts. See
note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on page 106 for additional information.
The actual return on the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP) assets in 2007 was 14
percent, compared to a 15 percent return in 2006.  

The company expects that its
effective tax rate in 2008 will be approximately 27.5 percent. This rate is
lower than the 2007 tax rate of 28.1 percent due to an expectation of a more
favorable mix of income in lower tax jurisdictions. The rate will change year
to year based on non-recurring events, such as the settlement of income tax
audits, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income
before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and
local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.  

In 2007 and 2006, the company s
cash tax rate was approximately 18 percent and 16 percent, respectively.  

The company s cash tax rate
represents the amount of income taxes paid during the year over Income from
continuing operations before income taxes. The cash tax rate differs from the
company s effective tax rate due to a number of variables including, but not
limited to, certain items of income and expense that are recognized in
different years for financial reporting purposes than for income tax purposes,
differences in currency rates used in the translation of the non-U.S. income
tax provision and income tax payments and current year cash tax payments or
refunds that are related to prior years. The company anticipates that its cash
tax rate may increase in the near term as a result of the settlement of audits.  

43  

Liquidity and Capital Resources     

The
company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations, providing
a source of funds ranging between $14.5 billion and $16.1 billion per year over
the past five years. The company provides for additional liquidity through
several sources; maintaining a sizable cash balance, access to global funding
sources and a committed global credit facility. The following table provides a
summary of these major sources of liquidity for the years ended December 31,
2003 through 2007.  

Cash Flow and Liquidity Trends   

The
major rating agencies  ratings on the company s debt securities at December 31,
2007 appear in the following table. The Standard and Poor s and Moody s
Investors Services ratings remain unchanged from December 31, 2006. In May 2007,
Fitch Ratings lowered its ratings on senior long-term debt from AA- to A+ and
on commercial paper from F1+ to F1. Fitch changed its ratings following the
company s issuance of new debt utilized to fund the ASR in the second quarter.
The company has no contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in
credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial
position or liquidity. The company believes its earnings and cash flow growth
provide sufficient flexibility within the existing credit ratings to continue
to execute its current investment, dividend and acquisition strategies.  

STANDARD   

MOODY S   

AND   

INVESTORS   

FITCH   

POOR S   

SERVICE   

RATINGS   

Senior long-term
  debt  

A+  

A1  

A+  

Commercial paper  

A-1  

Prime-1  

F1  

The
company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with
SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows,  on page 60 and highlights causes and
events underlying sources and uses  of cash in that format on page 33. For purposes of running
its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a
different format. 

As discussed on page 50, one of the
company s two primary objectives of its Global Financing business is to
generate strong return on equity. Increasing receivables is the basis for
growth in a financing business. Accordingly, management considers Global
Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital
that should be minimized for efficiency. After classifying Global Financing
accounts receivables as an investment, the remaining net operational cash flow
less capital expenditures is viewed by the company as the free cash flow
available for investment and distribution to shareholders.  

From the perspective of how
management views cash flow, in 2007, free cash flow was $12.4 billion, an
increase of $1.9 billion compared to 2006. This cash performance was driven
primarily by the growth in net income from continuing operations, continued
focus on working capital and lower pension funding year over year.  

Over the past five years, the
company generated over $50 billion in free cash flow available for investment
and distribution to shareholders. As a result, during that period the company
invested $9.9 billion in strategic acquisitions, received $1.4 billion from
divestitures and returned over $53 billion to shareholders through dividends
and share repurchases. The amount of prospective returns to shareholders in the
form of dividends and share repurchases will vary based upon several factors
including each year s operating results, capital expenditure requirements,
research and development and acquisitions, as well as the factors discussed
following the table on page 45.  

The company s Board of Directors
meets quarterly to consider the dividend payment. The company expects to fund
dividend payments through cash from operations. In the second quarter of 2007,
the Board of Directors increased the company s quarterly common stock dividend
from $0.30 to $0.40 per share.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information   

42   

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

44  

The table below represents the way
in which management reviews cash flow as described on page 44.  

Events
that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed on page
44 include significant changes in operating results, material changes in
geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation or
future pension funding during periods of severe and prolonged downturn in the
capital markets. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend
on a number of variables, which are more completely described on page 96. In January
2008, the company closed the previously announced Cognos acquisition for
approximately $5.0 billion in cash; the Telelogic acquisition is also expected
to close for approximately $0.8 billion following the completion of regulatory
reviews. With respect to pension funding, in the first quarter of 2007, the
company made a $500 million voluntary cash contribution to the U.S. nonpension
postretirement plan, and in the first quarter of 2006, the company contributed
approximately $1 billion to the U.K. pension plan. In addition, on January 19,
2005, the company contributed $1.7 billion to the qualified portion of the PPP,
a U.S. defined benefit plan. As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations
table on page 46, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan
contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $3.3 billion in the
next five years. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension
funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital
markets or pension plan funding regulations.  

The Pension Protection Act of 2006
(the Act) was enacted into law in 2006, and, among other things, increases the
funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans beginning after December
31, 2007. No mandatory contribution is required for the U.S. defined benefit
plan in 2008.  

45  

CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS   

* Represents future pension contributions that are
mandated by local regulations or statute, all associated with non-U.S. pension
plans. The projected payments beyond 2012 are not currently determinable. See
note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 105 to 116 for additional
information on the non-U.S. plans  investment strategies and expected
contributions and for information regarding the company s unfunded pension
liability of $14,109 million at December 31, 2007.   

   ** These amounts represent the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48. The company estimates that
approximately $772 million of the liability is expected to be settled within
the next 12 months. The settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the
income tax liability cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing of the
payments will depend on the progress of tax examinations with the various tax
authorities; however, it is not expected to be due within the next 12 months.   

Total
contractual obligations are reported in the table above excluding the effects
of time value and therefore, may not equal the amounts reported in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

Purchase obligations include all
commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity
that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the
company would incur a penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) the company
must make specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the
contracted products or services ( take-or-pay ). If the obligation to purchase
goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract is
included in the table above. If the obligation is cancelable, but the company
would incur a penalty if canceled, the dollar amount of the penalty is included
as a purchase obligation. Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay
contracts are also included in the table as they represent the portion of each
contract that is a firm commitment.  

In the ordinary course of business,
the company enters into contracts that specify that the company will purchase
all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product, commodity or
service from a supplier or vendor. These contracts are generally entered into
in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms. They do not specify fixed
or minimum quantities to be purchased and, therefore, the company does not
consider them to be purchase obligations.  

OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS   

In
the ordinary course of business, the company enters into off-balance sheet
arrangements as defined by the SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67),
 Disclosure in Management s Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet
Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations.   

On May 25, 2007, the company
entered into ASR agreements with three investment banks. The initial purchase
price of the ASR agreements is subject to adjustment based on the volume
weighted-average price of the company s common stock over the contractual
settlement period. The settlement can be effected in cash or common shares of
the company at the company s election. In accordance with Emerging Issues Task
Force Issue No. 00-19,  Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed
to, and Potentially Settled in, a Company s Own Stock,  the financial
instruments generated by this settlement mechanism are not recognized in the
company s financial statements until settlement, at which time the settlement
payment or receipt is recorded in Stockholders  equity. The liquidity risk
related to the settlement of these contracts is mitigated by the company s
contractual ability to elect cash or share settlement. Additionally, these
contracts restrict the maximum amount of shares potentially deliverable by the
company. Refer to note M,  Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on pages 92 and 93
for further information on the ASR agreements entered into by the company.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information   

42   

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

46  

We have no other off-balance sheet
arrangements that has, or is reasonably likely to have, a material current or
future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues
or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital
resources. See the table on page 46 for the company s contractual obligations
and note N,  Contingencies and Commitments,  on pages 95 and 96, for detailed
information about the company s guarantees, financial commitments and
indemnification arrangements. The company does not have retained interests in
assets transferred to unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance
sheet interests or instruments.  

Critical Accounting Estimates     

The
application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions
about future events that directly affect its reported financial condition and
operating performance. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in
this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to
its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both
(a) the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of
subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable
range of outcomes of the estimates and assumptions is material to the company s
financial condition or operating performance. Senior management has discussed
the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit
Committee of the company s Board of Directors. The critical accounting
estimates related to the Global Financing business are described on page 55 in
the Global Financing section. The company s significant accounting policies are
described in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 64 to 73.  

A quantitative sensitivity analysis
is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably
estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to
assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 5 percent, etc.) are included to allow
users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and effect
of changes in the estimates and do not represent management s predictions of
variability.  

PENSION ASSUMPTIONS   

The
measurement of the company s benefit obligation and net periodic pension
cost/(income) requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others,
estimates of discount rates and expected return on plan assets.  

Changes in the discount rate
assumptions will impact the service cost, (gain)/loss amortization and interest
cost components of the net periodic pension cost/(income) calculation (see pages
111 and 112 for information regarding the discount rate assumptions) and the
projected benefit obligation (PBO). As presented on page 111, the company
increased the discount rate assumption for the PPP by 25 basis points to 6.00
percent on December 31, 2007. This change will decrease pre-tax cost and
expense recognized in 2008 by approximately $65 million. If the discount rate
assumption for the PPP decreased by 25 basis points on December 31, 2007,
pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2008 would have increased by
approximately $65 million. Changes in the discount rate assumptions will impact
the PBO which, in turn, may impact the company s funding decisions if the PBO
exceeds plan assets. Each 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount
rate will cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the
PPP s PBO of an estimated $1.2 billion based upon December 31, 2007 data. Page 109
presents the PPP s PBO (after the increase in discount rate presented on page 111)
and plan assets as of December 31, 2007.  

The expected long-term return on
plan assets is used in calculating the net periodic pension (income)/cost. See page
112 for information regarding the expected long-term return on plan assets
assumption. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and
expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the
expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension cost/(income) and
also as a component of gains/losses in Accumulated gains and (losses) not
affecting retained earnings, which is recognized over the service lives of the
employees in the plan, provided such amounts exceed certain thresholds which
are based upon the obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by
accounting standards.  

To the extent the outlook for
long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term
return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in
the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption will have an
estimated decrease or increase, respectively, of $249 million on the following
year s pre-tax net periodic pension cost/(income) (based upon the PPP s plan
assets at December 31, 2007 and assuming no contributions are made in 2008).  

The company may voluntarily make
contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension
plans. Actual return on pension plan assets that differ from the expected
long-term return on plan asset assumptions, may result in more or less future
company contributions than is planned by management.  

Impacts of these types of changes
on the company s pension plans in other countries worldwide will vary depending
upon the status of each respective plan.  

REVENUE RECOGNITION   

Application
of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and
recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates.
Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may
require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate
accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element
arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other
significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting
as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered
part of one arrangement.  

47  

Revenue recognition is also
impacted by the company s ability to estimate sales incentives, expected
returns, and allowances for uncollectible receivables. The company considers
various factors, including a review of specific transactions, the
credit-worthiness of the customers, historical experience and market and
economic conditions when calculating these provisions and allowances. Estimates
are evaluated each quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates. If these
estimates were changed by 5 percent in 2007, Net Income would be impacted by
$46 million (excluding Global Financing receivables reserves discussed on page 55).  

COSTS TO COMPLETE SERVICE CONTRACTS   

The
company enters into numerous service contracts through its GTS and GBS
businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be
impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract,
especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion
(POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC
contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of
the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing
profitability analyses of its services contracts in order to determine whether
the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to
estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs,
future product costs and productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions
recorded as a component of Other accrued expenses and liabilities are
approximately $41 million and $32 million at December 31, 2007 and December 31,
2006, respectively.  

INCOME TAXES   

The
company is subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign
jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the
consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of
business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate
tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax
liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be
due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the company s belief
that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that
certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities.
The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all
open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past
experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates
and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future
events. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these matters is different
than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact income tax expense in
the period in which such determination is made.  

Significant judgment is also
required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax
assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers
all available evidence including past operating results, estimates of future
taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. In the
event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred
tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation
allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in
which such determination is made.  

To the extent that the provision
for income taxes increases/decreases by 1 percent of Income from continuing
operations before income taxes, consolidated Income from continuing operations
would have declined/improved by $145 million in 2007.  

VALUATION OF ASSETS AND REPORTING UNITS   

The
application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use
of significant estimates and assumptions. The purchase method of accounting for
business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets
acquired and liabilities assumed to properly allocate purchase price
consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill.
Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the allocation of
cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of
fair value for the assets or group of assets. Impairment testing for goodwill
requires the company assign assets and liabilities to reporting units along
with estimating future cash flows for those reporting units based on
assumptions of future events.  

The company s estimates are based
upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain
and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management s assumptions,
which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.  

RESTRUCTURING ACTIONS   

The
company has executed, and may continue to execute, restructuring actions which
require management to utilize significant estimates related to expenses for
severance and other employee separation costs, realizable values of assets made
redundant or obsolete, lease cancellation and other exit costs. If the actual
amounts differ from the company s estimates, the amount of restructuring
charges could be materially impacted. See note Q,  2005 Actions,  on pages 99
and 100 for a description of restructuring actions.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information   

42   

Global Financing  

50  

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

48  

LOSS CONTINGENCIES   

The
company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings.
Quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and
assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim
or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably
estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant
judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the
determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of
uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best
information available at the time. As additional information becomes available,
the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims
and litigation and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates
of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the company s
results of operations and financial position.  

Currency Rate Fluctuations     

Changes
in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the
company s results. At December 31, 2007, currency changes resulted in assets
and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into more
dollars than at year-end 2006. The company uses a variety of financial hedging
instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions
and other foreign currency-based transactions. Further discussion of currency
and hedging appears in note K,  Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages
88 to 91.  

The company earned approximately 47
percent of its pre-tax income from continuing operations in currencies other
than the U.S. dollar. The company also maintains hedging programs to limit the
volatility of currency impacts on the company s financial results. These
hedging programs limit the impact of currency changes on the company s
financial results but do not eliminate them. In addition to the translation of earnings
and the company s hedging programs, the impact of currency changes also will
affect the company s pricing and sourcing actions. For example, the company may
procure components and supplies in multiple functional currencies and sell  products
and services in other currencies. Therefore, it is impractical to quantify the
impact of currency on these transactions and on consolidated net income. In 2007, the company believes the
extended period of dollar weakness was positive for the company s net income,
although the precise impact is difficult to assess. 

For non-U.S. subsidiaries and
branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly
inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations,
as required by SFAS No. 52,  Foreign Currency Translation.  Generally, the
company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts
to U.S. dollars and by entering into foreign currency hedge contracts.  

Market Risk     

In
the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is
routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk
associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and
non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk
include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual
values on leased assets.  

The company regularly assesses
these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect
against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a
result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks.  

The company s debt, in support of
the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the company s
operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and
currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a
variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as explained in note K,
 Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 88 to 91.  

To meet disclosure requirements,
the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that
market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company s debt and
other financial instruments.  

The financial instruments that are
included in the sensitivity analysis comprise all of the company s cash and
cash equivalents, marketable securities, long-term receivables, investments,
long-term and short-term debt and all derivative financial instruments. The
company s portfolio of derivative financial instruments generally includes
interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps, forward contracts and option
contracts.  

To perform the sensitivity
analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect
of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates
on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign
currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash
flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market
risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations
were selected based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in
effect at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The differences in this comparison are
the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk.  

Information provided by the
sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair
value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due
to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk
factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained
by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis,
while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those
items are included by definition. Excluded items include forecasted foreign
currency cash flows and the company s net investment in foreign operations. As
a consequence, reported changes in the values of some  

49  

of the financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity
analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items
that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.  

The results of the sensitivity
analysis at December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006, are as follows:  

INTEREST RATE RISK   

At
December 31, 2007, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with
all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair market
value of the company s financial instruments of $220 million as compared with a
decrease of $110 million at December 31, 2006. A 10 percent increase in the
levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in
an increase in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $202
million as compared to an increase of $93 million at December 31, 2006. Changes
in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company s financial
instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest
rates are primarily driven by changes in the company s debt maturities,
interest rate profile and amount.  

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATE RISK   

At
December 31, 2007, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies,
with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair
value of the company s financial instruments of $123 million as compared with a
decrease of $348 million at December 31, 2006. Conversely, a 10 percent
stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held
constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company s
financial instruments of $123 million compared with an increase of $348 million
at December 31, 2006.  

Financing Risks     

See
the  Global Financing-Description of Business  on pages 50 and 51 for a
discussion of the financing risks associated with the Global Financing business
and management s actions to mitigate such risks while striving for consistently
strong returns on Global Financing s equity.  

Employees and Related Workforce     

In
2007, total employees at IBM and its wholly owned subsidiaries increased 30,792
compared with 2006. The U.S. remained the largest country, with 121,000
employees, down modestly versus 2006 due to the Printer divestiture, while
resources increased in Asia Pacific, EMEA and Latin America. The company
continues to invest in Global Services and Software through a combination of
hiring and acquisitions. The company also continues to rebalance its workforce
globally to improve its global reach and competitiveness and to reflect the
changing geographic mix of its business.  

The company has been adding
resources aggressively in emerging markets, particularly in the BRIC countries  
Brazil, Russia, India and China   where employment totals approximately 98,000.
India experienced the largest growth, up 22,200 to approximately 74,000
employees at year end. Higher employment in these countries reflects growth
within these markets, as well as the company s continued transformation to a
globally integrated enterprise.  

The complementary workforce is an
approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary,
part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business
needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.  

Global Financing     

Description of Business   

Global
Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as if it were a standalone
entity. Accordingly, the information presented in this section is consistent
with this separate company view.  

The mission of Global Financing is
to generate a strong return on equity and to facilitate clients  acquisition of
IBM hardware, software and services.  

Global Financing invests in
financing assets, manages the associated risks, and leverages with debt, all
with the objective of generating consistently strong returns on equity. The
primary focus on IBM products and IBM clients mitigates the risks normally
associated with  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information   

42   

Global Financing   

50   

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

50  

a financing company. Global Financing has the benefit of both a deep
knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products that are
being leased. This combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage
two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated
with financing.  

Global Financing comprises three
lines of business:  

Client financing provides lease and loan financing to end
users and internal clients for terms generally between two and seven years.
Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services  long-term
client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of
the company s accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All
internal financing arrangements are at arm s-length rates and are based upon
market conditions.  

Commercial financing provides primarily short-term inventory
and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products.  

Remarketing sells and leases used equipment to new or
existing clients both externally and internally. This equipment is primarily
sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions. Externally-remarketed
equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers.
Internally-remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment
that is sold or leased internally to the System and Technology and Global
Services segments. The System and Technology segment may also sell the
equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients.  

In
addition to the strength of the economy and its impact on corporate IT budgets,
key drivers of Global Financing s results are interest rates and originations.
Interest rates directly impact Global Financing s business by increasing or
decreasing both financing revenue and the associated borrowing costs.
Originations, which determine the asset base of Global Financing s annuity-like
business, are impacted by IBM s non-Global Financing sales volumes and Global
Financing s participation rates. Participation rates are the propensity of
IBM s clients to finance their purchases through Global Financing in lieu of
paying IBM up-front cash or financing through a third party.  

Results of Operations   

* See page 55 for the details of the After-tax income and
Return on equity calculations.   

The
increase in 2007 revenue, as compared to 2006, was primarily due to:  

Growth in external revenue of 5.8 percent (2 percent
adjusted for currency) primarily driven by increased used equipment sales (up
12.7 percent to $704 million); partially offset by  

A decline in internal revenue of 3.0 percent, due primarily
to lower used equipment sales to the Systems and Technology segment (down 15.7
percent to $780 million), partially offset by an increase in internal financing
revenue of 16.6 percent to $702 million. The increase in financing revenue was
due to higher average asset balances and higher asset yields.  

Global
Financing gross profit increased 2.2 percent compared to 2006, with gross
margin declining 0.1 point. This was due to higher margin used equipment sales
largely offset by margin compression on financing revenue due to higher
borrowing costs.  

The decline in 2006 revenue, as
compared to 2005 was primarily due to:  

A decline in external revenue of 1.5 percent (2 percent
adjusted for currency) primarily driven by an 8.3 percent decrease to $625
million in used equipment sales; partially offset by  

Growth in internal revenue of 1.4 percent driven by an
increase in financing revenue of 10.6 percent to $602 million due to higher
average asset balances and higher asset yields.  

Global
Financing gross profit decreased 6.2 percent and gross margin declined 3.3
points in 2006 versus 2005. The decrease in dollars and gross margin was driven
primarily by lower financing margins due to higher borrowing costs related to
the interest rate environment in 2006, and a decrease in equipment sales.  

Global Financing pre-tax income
decreased 4.7 percent in 2007 versus 2006, and 8.1 percent in 2006 versus 2005.
The decrease in 2007 was driven by an increase of $90 million in accounts
receivable provisions, partially offset by the increase in gross profit of $46
million. The decrease in 2006 versus 2005 was primarily driven by the decrease
in gross profit of $140 million. The increase in accounts receivable provisions
in 2007 was primarily due to the increasing size of the receivables portfolio.
Overall coverage rate is 1.3 percent, down 0.2 points versus 2006. (Also see pages
52 and 53 for an additional discussion of Global Financing receivables and allowances.)  

The decrease in return on equity
from 2006 to 2007, and from 2005 to 2006 was primarily due to lower pre-tax
income.  

51  

Financial Condition   

BALANCE SHEET   

(a) Includes intercompany
mark-up, priced on an arms-length basis, on products purchased from the company s
product divisions, which is eliminated in IBM s consolidated results.   

   (b) Entire amount eliminated
for purposes of IBM s consolidated results and therefore does not appear on page 59.   

   (c) These assets, along with
all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at the value in the
table using Global Financing debt.   

   (d) Global Financing debt is
comprised of intercompany loans and external debt. A portion of Global
Financing debt is in support of the company s internal business, or related to
intercompany mark-up embedded in the Global Financing assets. See table on page 54.   

SOURCES AND USES OF FUNDS   

The primary use of funds in Global Financing
is to originate client and commercial financing assets. Client financing assets
for end users consist primarily of IBM hardware, software and services, but
also include non-IBM equipment, software and services to meet IBM clients 
total solutions requirements. Client financing assets are primarily sales type,
direct financing, and operating leases for equipment, as well as loans for
hardware, software and services with terms generally for two to seven years.
Global Financing s client loans are primarily for software and services and are
unsecured. These loans are subjected to additional credit analysis in order to
mitigate the associated risk. Loan agreements include credit protective
language and dollar limits on how much can be financed in order to minimize
credit risk. Client financing also includes internal activity as described on page 51.  

Commercial
financing receivables arise primarily from inventory and accounts receivable
financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM products. Payment
terms for inventory financing and accounts receivable financing generally range
from 30 to 90 days. These short-term receivables are primarily unsecured and
are also subject to additional credit actions in order to mitigate the
associated risk.  

ORIGINATIONS   

The following are total external and internal
financing originations.  

New financing originations exceeded cash
collections for both client and commercial financing in 2007, which resulted in
a net increase in financing assets from December 31, 2006. The increase in
originations in 2007 from 2006, as well as the increase in 2006 versus 2005,
was due to improving volumes in both client and commercial financing.  

Cash
generated by Global Financing in 2007 was deployed to pay intercompany payables
and dividends to IBM as well as to reduce intercompany debt.  

GLOBAL FINANCING RECEIVABLES AND
ALLOWANCES   

The following table presents external
financing receivables, excluding residual values, and the allowance for
doubtful accounts.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing   

50   

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

52  

ROLL-FORWARD OF FINANCING
RECEIVABLES ALLOWANCE FOR DOUBTFUL ACCOUNTS   

* Represents reserved
receivables, net of recoveries, that were disposed of during the period.   

   ** Primarily represents
translation adjustments.   

The percentage of financing receivables
reserved decreased from 1.5 percent at December 31, 2006, to 1.3 percent
at December 31, 2007 primarily due to the decrease in the specific
allowance for doubtful accounts. Specific reserves decreased 21.8 percent from
$294 million at December 31, 2006 to $230 million at December 31,
2007 due to the disposition of reserved receivables during the period combined
with lower requirements for additional specific reserves. This lower
requirement is generally due to the credit quality of the portfolio, as well as
portfolio management to reduce credit risk. Unallocated reserves increased 81.6
percent from $76 million at December 31, 2006, to $138 million at December 31,
2007 primarily due to the significant growth of the financing receivables
portfolio. Global Financing s provision expense was an addition of $70 million
for the year ended December 31, 2007 and a reduction of $20 million for
the year ended December 31, 2006. The increase was primarily attributed to
the growth of the unallocated reserves.  

RESIDUAL VALUE   

Residual value is a risk unique to the
financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to
accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing
has insight into the product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease.
Based upon this information, Global Financing continually monitors projections
of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected
in the portfolio. See note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 73
for the company s accounting policy for residual values.  

Global
Financing optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced
from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients or extending lease
arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment, which are primarily
sourced from equipment returned at end of lease, represented 37.3 percent of
Global Financing s revenue in 2007 and 39.8 percent in 2006. The decrease was
due to the decline in internal used equipment sales, partially offset by the
increase in external used equipment sales. The gross margin on these sales was
43.7 percent and 38.1 percent in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase was
driven primarily by higher margin internal used equipment sales.  

The
table on page 54 presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual
value for sales-type and operating leases at December 31, 2006 and 2007.
In addition, the table presents the residual value as a percentage of the
original amount financed, and a schedule of when the unguaranteed residual
value assigned to equipment on leases at December 31, 2007 is expected to
be returned to the company. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on
a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of
the equipment to be returned at end of lease. These third-party guarantees are
included in minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards in
the determination of lease classifications for the covered equipment and
provide protection against risk of loss arising from declines in equipment
values for these assets. The residual value guarantee increases the minimum
lease payments that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease
as a sales-type lease or an operating lease. The aggregate asset values
associated with the guarantees were $682 million and $794 million for financing
transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. In 2007, the residual value guarantee program resulted in the
company recognizing approximately $483 million of revenue that would otherwise
have been recognized in future periods as operating lease revenue. If the
company had chosen to not participate in a residual value program in 2007 and
prior years, overall revenues would not have been materially affected due to
the relatively constant year-to-year aggregate asset value associated with the
residual value guarantees. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at
the scheduled end of lease were $38 million each for financing transactions
originated during the same time periods, respectively. The cost of guarantees
was $5 million per year in 2007 and 2006.  

53  

UNGUARANTEED RESIDUAL VALUE   

DEBT   

Global Financing funds its operations
primarily through borrowings using a debt-to-equity ratio of approximately 7 to
1. The debt is used to fund Global Financing assets and is composed of
intercompany loans and external debt. The terms of the intercompany loans are
set by the company to substantially match the term and currency underlying the
receivable and are based on arm s-length pricing. Both assets and debt are
presented in the Global Financing Balance Sheet on page 52.  

The
Global Financing business provides funding predominantly for the company s
external clients but also provides intercompany financing for the company, as
described in the  Description of Business  on pages 50 and 51. As
previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as if it were a
standalone entity and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting
Global Financing s external client and internal business is included in the  Global
Financing Results of Operations  on page 51 and in note V,  Segment
Information,  on pages 116 to 119.  

In
the company s Consolidated Statement of Earnings on page 58, however, the
interest expense supporting Global Financing s internal financing to the
company is reclassified from Cost of Financing to Interest expense.  

The
following table provides additional information on debt. In this table,
Intercompany activity is comprised of internal loans and leases at arm s length
pricing in support of Global Services  long-term contracts and other internal
activity. The company believes these assets should be appropriately levered in
line with the overall Global Financing business model.  

Management Discussion   

14   

Road Map  

14  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

15  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

16  

Description of Business  

17  

Year in Review  

23  

Prior Year in Review  

37  

Discontinued Operations  

42  

Other Information  

42  

Global Financing   

50   

Report
  of Management  

56  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

57  

Consolidated
  Statements  

58  

Notes  

64  

54  

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   

Global Financing is a segment of the company
and as such, is supported by the company s overall liquidity position and
access to capital markets. Cash generated by Global Financing was primarily
deployed to reduce debt and pay dividends to the company in order to maintain
an appropriate debt-to-equity ratio.  

Return on Equity   

* Calculated based upon an
estimated tax rate principally based on Global Financing s geographic mix of
earnings as IBM s provision for income taxes is determined on a consolidated
basis.   

   ** Average of the ending
equity for Global Financing for the last five quarters.   

Critical Accounting Estimates   

As discussed in the section,  Critical
Accounting Estimates,  on page 47, the application of GAAP requires the
company to make estimates and assumptions about future events that directly
affect its reported financial condition and operating performance. The
accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that
the company considers to be the most critical to Global Financing. The company s
significant accounting policies are described in note A,  Significant
Accounting Policies,  on pages 64 to 73.  

FINANCING RECEIVABLES RESERVES   

Global Financing reviews its financing
receivables portfolio at least quarterly in order to assess collectibility. A
description of the methods used by management to estimate the amount of
uncollectible receivables is included on page 73. Factors that could
result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the
estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change
in the economic health of a particular industry segment that represents a
concentration in Global Financing s receivables portfolio.  

To
the extent that actual collectibility differs from management s estimates by 5
percent, Global Financing after-tax income would be higher or lower by an
estimated $12 million (using 2007 data), depending upon whether the actual
collectibility was better or worse, respectively, than the estimates.  

RESIDUAL VALUE   

Residual value represents the estimated fair
value of equipment under lease as of the end of the lease. Residual value
estimates impact the determination of whether a lease is classified as
operating or sales type. Global Financing estimates the future fair value of
leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the current market for
new and used equipment and obtaining forward-looking product information such
as marketing plans and technological innovations. Residual value estimates are
periodically reviewed and  other than temporary  declines in estimated future
residual values are recognized upon identification. Anticipated increases in
future residual values are not recognized until the equipment is remarketed.
Factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from the estimates
include significant changes in the used-equipment market brought on by
unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any resulting changes in the
useful lives of used equipment.  

To
the extent that actual residual value recovery is lower than management s
estimates by 5 percent, Global Financing s after-tax income would be lower by
an estimated $21 million (using 2007 data). If the actual residual value recovery
is higher than management s estimates, the increase in after-tax income will be
realized at the end of lease when the equipment is remarketed.  

Market Risk   

See pages 49 and 50 for discussion of
the company s overall market risk.  

Looking Forward   

Given Global Financing s primary mission of
supporting IBM s hardware, software and services businesses, originations for
both the client and commercial financing businesses will be dependent upon the
overall demand for IT hardware, software and services, as well as client
participation rates.  

Interest
rates and the overall economy (including currency fluctuations) will have an
effect on both revenue and gross profit. The company s interest rate risk
management policy, however, combined with the Global Financing funding strategy
(see page 54), should mitigate gross margin erosion due to changes in
interest rates. The company s policy of matching asset and liability positions
in foreign currencies will limit the impacts of currency fluctuations.  

The
economy could impact the credit quality of the Global Financing receivables
portfolio and therefore the level of provision for bad debts. Global Financing
will continue to apply rigorous credit policies in both the origination of new
business and the evaluation of the existing portfolio.  

As
discussed on page 53, Global Financing has historically been able to
manage residual value risk both through insight into the product cycles, as
well as through its remarketing business.  

Global
Financing has policies in place to manage each of the key risks involved in
financing. These policies, combined with product and client knowledge, should
allow for the prudent management of the business going forward, even during
periods of uncertainty with respect to the economy.  

  55  

Report
of Management     

International Business Machines
Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL
INFORMATION   

Responsibility for the integrity and
objectivity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report rests
with IBM management. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America, applying certain estimates and judgments as required.  

IBM
maintains an effective internal control structure. It consists, in part, of
organizational arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and
delegation of authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. An
important element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit
program. Our system also contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are
taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified.  

To
assure the effective administration of internal controls, we carefully select
and train our employees, develop and disseminate written policies and
procedures, provide appropriate communication channels and foster an
environment conducive to the effective functioning of controls. We believe that
it is essential for the company to conduct its business affairs in accordance
with the highest ethical standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct
Guidelines. These guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are
distributed to employees throughout the world, and reemphasized through
internal programs to assure that they are understood and followed.  

PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBM s
Consolidated Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control
over financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States).  

The
Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of independent,
non-management directors, and is responsible for recommending to the Board the
independent registered public accounting firm to be retained for the coming
year, subject to stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee meets
periodically and privately with the independent registered public accounting
firm, with the company s internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to
review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting
matters.  

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL
CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   

Management is responsible for establishing
and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of the
company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

The
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and
procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and
dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable
assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.  

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may
become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of
compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Management
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in Internal Control    Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management
concluded that the company s internal control over financial reporting was
effective as of December 31, 2007. 

Samuel J. Palmisano  

Chairman of the Board,  

President and Chief
  Executive Officer  

February 26, 2008  

Mark Loughridge  

Senior Vice President,  

Chief Financial Officer  

February 26, 2008  

56  

Report of
Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

   International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION:   

In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated
Financial Statements appearing on pages 58 through 119 present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of International Business
Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on
criteria established in Internal Control    Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations
of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for
these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on page 56.
Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated
audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether
effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining,
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included
obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating
the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinions. 

As
discussed in note B to the financial statements, the Company adopted the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers
Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Post-employment Plans,  as
of December 31, 2006.  

A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition
of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.  

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not
prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of
effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

57  

Consolidated Statement of Earnings     

International Business
Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

* Reclassified to conform with 2007 presentation of new
Revenue and Cost categories. See note A,  Basis of Presentation,  on page 64
for additional information.   

   ** Reflects implementation of FASB
Interpretation No. 47. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on page 75
for additional information.   

The accompanying
notes on pages 64 through 119 are an integral part of the financial
statements.   

58  

Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position     

International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

*  Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation of new Deferred income category, previously combined in Other
liabilities.   

The accompanying notes on pages 64 through 119 are an
integral part of the financial statements.   

59  

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows     

International Business
Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

* Reclassified to conform with 2007 presentation
combining Pension assets and Pension liabilities into one caption Retirement
related.   

   **      Reclassified to conform with
2007 presentation to combine Other than temporary declines in securities and
other investments and the Other assets/other liabilities into one caption.  

   *** See note A,  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows,  on page 64 for additional information.   

    +       Reclassified to conform with
2007 presentation of the new Common stock repurchases and Common stock
transactions other previously combined in Common stock transactions net.  

    ++     Reclassified to conform
with 2007 presentation of disclosing interest paid on debt versus total
interest paid including net investment hedging activity.  

    +++       Lenovo equity valued at $542
million net of lock-up provisions of $112 million. See note C,
 Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on page 81 for additional information.  

The accompanying notes on pages 64
through 119 are an integral part of the financial statements.   

60  

Consolidated Statement of
Stockholders  Equity     

International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

*            Foreign
currency translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges shown
net of tax.  

The accompanying notes on pages 64 through 119 are an
integral part of the financial statements.   

61   

*            Foreign
currency translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges
shown net of tax.  

The accompanying notes on pages 64 through 119 are an
integral part of the financial statements.   

62   

*            Foreign
currency translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges
shown net of tax.  

The accompanying notes on pages 64 through 119 are an
integral part of the financial statements.   

63  

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements     

International Business Machines
Corporation and Subsidiary Companies   

Note A.
Significant Accounting Policies     

Basis of Presentation   

In the first quarter of 2007, the
International Business Machines Corporation (IBM and/or the company) changed
the presentation of revenue and cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
to reflect the categories of Services, Sales and Financing. Previously, the
presentation included Global Services, Hardware, Software, Global Financing and
an Other category. In the past, these categories were aligned with the company s
reportable segment presentation of external revenue and cost. However, as the
company moves toward delivering solutions which bring integrated software and
services capabilities to its clients, the alignment between segments and
categories will diverge. Therefore, there are situations where the Global
Services segments could include software revenue, and conversely, the Software
segment may have services revenue. The change was made to avoid possible
confusion between the segment revenue and cost presentation and the required
category presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

The
change only impacts the format for the presentation of the company s revenue
and cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and does not reflect any
change in the company s reportable segment results or in the company s
organizational structure. The periods presented in this Annual Report are
reported on a comparable basis. The management discussion and analysis of
revenue and gross profit from continuing operations focuses on the segment
view, as this is how the business is managed and is the best reflection of the
company s operating results and strategy.  

On
December 31, 2002, the company sold its hard disk drive (HDD) business to
Hitachi, Ltd. (Hitachi). The HDD business was part of the Systems and
Technology reportable segment. The HDD business was accounted for as a
discontinued operation under accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States of America (GAAP) and therefore, the HDD results of operations
and cash flows have been removed from the company s results of continuing
operations and cash flows for all periods presented in this document.  

For
2006, Income from discontinued operations, net of tax, is related to tax
benefits from tax audit settlements. For 2005, the Loss from discontinued
operations, net of tax, is primarily additional costs associated with parts
warranty as agreed upon by the company and Hitachi.  

Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows   

Subsequent to the company s Form 10-Q
filing on October 30, 2007 for the quarter ended September 30, 2007,
it was determined that  Proceeds from new debt  and  Payments to settle debt 
were understated by an equal, offsetting amount of $3,760 million with no
impact on the  Net cash used in financing activities from continuing operations 
section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the nine months ended September 30,
2007.  

The
company assessed this reporting issue and determined it to be both
qualitatively and quantitatively immaterial with respect to the overall
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and the key categories presented in the
statement: Net cash used in operating, investing and financing activities from
continuing operations. In the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the year
ended December 31, 2007 on page 60, the company has made the
adjustments described above. In 2008, the company will present the corrected
amounts for the nine months ended September 30, 2007 in its Form 10-Q
for the third quarter of 2008.  

Principles of Consolidation   

The Consolidated Financial Statements include
the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are generally
majority owned. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs) as defined by
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 46(R),  Accounting
for Variable Interest Entities,  (FIN 46(R)), are included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which
the company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant
influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the
equity method and the company s proportionate share of income or loss is
recorded in Other (income) and expense. The accounting policy for other
investments in equity securities is described on page 72 within  Marketable
Securities.  Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities are primarily
accounted for using the cost method. All significant intercompany transactions
and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.  

Use of Estimates   

The preparation of Consolidated Financial
Statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions
that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and
gains and losses not affecting retained earnings that are reported in the
Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures, including the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities. These estimates are based on
management s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions
that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions
that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual
results may be different from these estimates. See pages 47 to 49 and page 55
for a discussion of the company s critical accounting estimates.  

64  

Revenue   

The company recognizes revenue when it is
realized or realizable and earned. The company considers revenue realized or
realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery
has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is
reasonably assured. Delivery does not occur until products have been shipped or
services have been provided to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the
client, and either client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance
provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria
specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. The sales
price is not considered to be fixed or determinable until all contingencies
related to the sale have been resolved.  

The
company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and
distributors (herein referred to as  resellers ) when the reseller has economic
substance apart from the company, credit risk, title and risk of loss to the
inventory, the fee to the company is not contingent upon resale or payment by
the end user, the company has no further obligations related to bringing about
resale or delivery and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  

The
company reduces revenue for estimated client returns, stock rotation, price
protection, rebates and other similar allowances. (See Schedule II,  Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  included in the company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K). Revenue is recognized only if these estimates can be
reasonably and reliably determined. The company bases its estimates on
historical results taking into consideration the type of client, the type of
transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Payments made under
cooperative marketing programs are recognized as an expense only if the company
receives from the client an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from
the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably and reliably estimated. If
the company does not receive an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable
from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably estimated, such
payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue.  

Revenue
from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs
when the company is acting as an agent between the client and vendor and gross
when the company is a principal to the transaction. Several factors are
considered to determine whether the company is an agent or principal, most
notably whether the company is the primary obligor to the client, or has
inventory risk. Consideration is also given to whether the company adds
meaningful value to the vendor s product or service, was involved in the
selection of the vendor s product or service, has latitude in establishing the
sales price or has credit risk.  

The
company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental
authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions.
In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the
specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-element arrangements and for
each major category of revenue.  

MULTIPLE-ELEMENT ARRANGEMENTS   

The company enters into multiple-element
revenue arrangements, which may include any combination of services, software,
hardware and/or financing. To the extent that a deliverable in a
multiple-element arrangement is subject to specific guidance such as leased
hardware that is subject to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13,
 Accounting for Leases,  or software that is subject to the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2,
 Software Revenue Recognition,  see  Software  on pages 66 and 67 on
whether and/or how to separate multiple deliverable arrangements into separate
units of accounting (separability) and how to allocate the arrangement
consideration among those separate units of accounting (allocation), that
deliverable is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. For all
other deliverables in multiple-element arrangements, the guidance below is
applied for separability and allocation. A multiple-element arrangement is
separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the following
criteria are met:  

The delivered item(s) has
value to the client on a stand-alone basis;  

There is objective and
reliable evidence of the fair value of the undelivered item(s); and  

If
the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered  
item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered   probable and substantially
in the control of the company.  

If these criteria are not met, the
arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in
revenue being recognized on a straight-line basis or being deferred until the
earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is
delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is objective
and reliable evidence of fair value for all units of accounting in an
arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units
of accounting based on each unit s relative fair value. There may be cases, however,
in which there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value of the
undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s). In those
cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement consideration.
Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the
delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less the
aggregate fair value of the undelivered item(s). The revenue policies described
below are then applied to each unit of accounting, as applicable.  

65  

If
the allocation of consideration in a profitable arrangement results in a loss
on an element (other than service elements as discussed below), that loss is
recognized at the earlier of (a) delivery of that element, (b) when
the first dollar of revenue is recognized on that element, or (c) when
there are no remaining profitable elements in the arrangement to be delivered.  

SERVICES   

The company s primary services offerings
include information technology (IT) datacenter and business process
outsourcing, application management services, consulting and systems
integration, technology infrastructure and system maintenance, Web hosting and
the design and development of complex IT systems to a client s specifications
(Design and Build). These services are provided on a time-and-material basis,
as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract
and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years.  

Revenue
from IT datacenter and business process outsourcing contracts is recognized in
the period the services are provided using either an objective measure of
output or a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Under the output
method, the amount of revenue recognized is based on the services delivered in
the period.  

Revenue
from application management services, technology infrastructure and system
maintenance and Web hosting contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the terms of the contracts. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is
recognized as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred.
Revenue related to extended warranty and product maintenance contracts is
recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period.  

Revenue
from fixed-price Design and Build contracts is recognized in accordance with
SOP No. 81-1,  Accounting for Performance of Construction-Type and Certain
Production-Type Contracts,  under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method.
Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred
to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the
contract. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of
revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the
estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in
estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in income in the
period in which the circumstances that give rise to the revision become known
by management.  

The
company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its services contracts
accounted for under the POC method in order to determine whether the latest
estimates of revenue, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these
estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated
loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC
service contracts, losses are recorded as incurred.  

In
some of the company s services contracts, the company bills the client prior to
recognizing revenue from performing the services. Deferred income of $5,997
million and $5,011 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, is
included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The year-to-year
increase was driven by growth in the services business and the impacts of
currency. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior
to billing the client. Unbilled accounts receivable of $2,192 million and
$1,762 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are included
in Notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position. Billings usually occur in the month after the company
performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions.
Unbilled receivables are expected to be billed and collected within four
months.  

HARDWARE   

Revenue from hardware sales and sales-type
leases is recognized when risk of loss has transferred to the client and there
are no unfulfilled company obligations that affect the client s final
acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard warranties and remaining
obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory are accrued when the
corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals and operating leases
is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease.  

SOFTWARE   

Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge)
license software is recognized at the inception of the license term if all
revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue from term (recurring
license charge) license software is recognized on a subscription basis over the
period that the client is entitled to use the license. Revenue from
maintenance, unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis and
technical support is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period such
items are delivered. In multiple-element revenue arrangements that include
software that is more than incidental to the products or services as a whole
(software multiple-element arrangements), software and software-related
elements are accounted for in accordance with the following criteria.
Software-related elements include software products and services, as well as
any non-software deliverable for which a software deliverable is essential to
its functionality.  

66  

A
software multiple-element arrangement is separated into more than one unit of
accounting if all of the following criteria are met:  

The functionality of the
delivered element(s) is not dependent on the undelivered element(s);  

There is vendor-specific
objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of
fair value is based on the price charged when the deliverable is sold
separately by the company on a regular basis and not as part of the
multiple-element arrangement; and  

Delivery of the delivered
element(s) represents the culmination of the earnings process for that
element(s).  

If any one of these criteria are not met, the
arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in
revenue being recognized on a straight-line basis or being deferred until the
earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is
delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair
value for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement
consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each
unit s relative VSOE of fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there
is VSOE of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for
the delivered item(s). In these cases, the residual method is used to allocate
the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of
consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the total
arrangement consideration less the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the
undelivered elements.  

FINANCING   

Financing income attributable to sales-type
leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis
using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  

Services Costs   

Recurring operating costs for services
contracts, including costs related to bid and proposal activities, are
recognized as incurred. For fixed price Design and Build contracts, the costs
of external hardware and software accounted for under the POC method are
deferred and recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date, as a
percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Certain eligible,
nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing contracts are
deferred and subsequently amortized. These costs consist of transition and
setup costs related to the installation of systems and processes and are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, not to
exceed the term of the contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with
outsourcing contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis
over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific,
then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or
the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of
acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on
a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of
benefit not to exceed the term of the contract. The company performs periodic
reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and set up
costs. This review is done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining
undiscounted cash flows of a contract to the unamortized contract costs. If
such minimum undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the
unamortized costs, a loss is recognized.  

Deferred
services transition and setup costs were $1,881 million and $1,511 million at December 31,
2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. The primary driver of the
increase year to year was the continued growth of the Global Services business.
Amortization expense of deferred services transition and setup costs is
estimated at December 31, 2007 to be $517 million in 2008, $414 million in
2009, $325 million in 2010, $258 million in 2011, and $367 million thereafter.  

Deferred
amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in
outsourcing arrangements were $202 million and $210 million at December 31,
2007 and December 31, 2006, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts
paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as
an offset of revenue and is estimated at December 31, 2007 to be $92
million in 2008, $46 million in 2009, $33 million in 2010, $20 million in 2011,
and $11 million thereafter.  

In
situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the
contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of
unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase
specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional
costs incurred by the company to transition the services.  

Software Costs   

Costs that are related to the conceptual
formulation and design of licensed programs are expensed as incurred to
research, development and engineering expense. Also, for licensed programs, the
company capitalizes costs that are incurred to produce the finished product
after technological feasibility has been established. Capitalized amounts are
amortized using the straight-line method, which is applied over periods ranging
up to three years. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that
unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Costs to
support or service licensed programs are charged to software cost as incurred.  

67  

The
company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create
and implement internal-use computer software, which includes software coding,
installation, testing and certain data conversions. These capitalized costs are
amortized on a straight-line basis over two years and are recorded in Selling,
general and administrative expense. See note I,  Intangible Assets Including
Goodwill,  on pages 84 and 85.  

Product Warranties   

The company offers warranties for its
hardware products that range up to three years, with the majority being either
one or three years. Estimated costs for warranty terms standard to the
deliverable are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related
deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the
deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and applies this
estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future
costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are
charged to cost of revenue. The warranty accrual is reviewed quarterly to
verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the
anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments
are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs
from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended-warranty
contracts, are recognized as incurred.  

Changes
in the warranty liability balance are presented in the following table:  

The decrease in the balance was primarily
driven by a reduction in estimated future costs as a result of the divestiture
of the Personal Computing business to Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) in April 2005.  

Shipping and Handling   

Costs related to shipping and handling are
recognized as incurred and included in Cost in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings.  

Expense and Other Income   

SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE   

Selling, general and administrative
(SG A) expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and
selling products and services are classified as selling expense and include
such items as advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and
administrative expense includes such items as compensation, office supplies,
non-income taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and
administrative expense includes other operating items such as a provision for
doubtful accounts, workforce accruals for contractually obligated payments to
employees terminated in the ongoing course of business, amortization of certain
intangible assets and environmental remediation costs. Certain special actions
discussed in note Q,  2005 Actions,  on pages 99 and 100 are also included
in SG A expense.  

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTIONAL
EXPENSE   

The company expenses advertising and
promotional costs when incurred. Cooperative advertising reimbursements from
vendors are recorded net of advertising and promotional expense in the period
the related advertising and promotional expense is incurred. Advertising and
promotional expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expense, was
$1,242 million, $1,195 million and $1,284 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005,
respectively, and is recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement
of Earnings.  

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND
ENGINEERING   

Research, development and engineering
(RD E) costs are expensed as incurred.  

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND CUSTOM DEVELOPMENT
INCOME   

As part of the company s business model and
as a result of the company s ongoing investment in research and development,
the company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual
property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade secrets and
technological know-how. Certain transfers of IP to third parties are
licensing/royalty-based and other transfers are transaction-based sales and
other transfers. Licensing/royalty-based fees involve transfers in which the
company earns the income over time, or the amount of income is not fixed or
determinable until the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable
royalty, based upon licensee s revenue). Sales and other transfers typically
include transfers of IP whereby the company has fulfilled its obligations and
the fee received is fixed or determinable at the transfer date. The company
also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these
arrangements is recorded only to the extent cash is received. Furthermore, the company
earns income from certain custom development projects  

68  

for strategic technology partners and
specific clients. The company records the income from these projects when the
fee is realized or realizable and earned, is not refundable and is not
dependent upon the success of the project.  

OTHER (INCOME) AND EXPENSE   

Other (income) and expense includes interest
income (other than from Global Financing external business transactions), gains
and losses on certain derivative instruments, gains and losses from securities
and other investments, gains and losses from certain real estate transactions,
foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale
of businesses and amounts related to accretion of asset retirement obligations.
Certain special actions discussed in note Q,  2005 Actions,  on pages 99
and 100 are also included in Other (income) and expense.  

Business Combinations and Intangible
Assets Including Goodwill   

The company accounts for business
combinations using the purchase method of accounting and accordingly, the
assets and liabilities of the acquired entities are recorded at their estimated
fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill represents the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned
to identifiable intangible assets. The company does not amortize the goodwill
balance. Substantially all of the goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.
The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between
the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce,
neither of which qualifies as an identifiable intangible asset. Identifiable
intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. See
note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on pages 76 to 82 and note I,  Intangible
Assets Including Goodwill,  on pages 84 and 85, for additional
information. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in
the Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date.  

Impairment   

Long-lived assets, other than goodwill, are
tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, written
down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values.
Goodwill is tested annually for impairment, or sooner when circumstances
indicate an impairment may exist, using a fair-value approach at the reporting
unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a business, which is
one level below that operating segment (the  component  level) if discrete
financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the
segment level. Components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they
have similar economic characteristics.  

Depreciation and Amortization   

Plant, rental machines and other property are
carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the
straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets
are as follows: buildings, 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land
improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, two to 15
years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to five years. Leasehold improvements are
amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease
term, rarely exceeding 25 years.  

Capitalized
software costs incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been
established are amortized over periods up to seven years. Capitalized costs for
internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods up to
two years. (See  Software Costs  on page 67 for additional information).
Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between three and seven
years.  

Environmental   

The cost of internal environmental protection
programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a
cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur
cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues
remediation costs for known environmental liabilities. The company s maximum
exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts
are recorded for environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable.  

Asset Retirement Obligations   

Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are legal
obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. These
liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and the related asset
retirement costs are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the
related assets by the same amount as the liability. Asset retirement costs are
subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records period-to-period changes
in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of time in Interest expense and
revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original expected cash
flows to the related assets.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension
Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The funded status of the company s defined
benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans
(retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position. The funded status is measured as the difference between
the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31,
the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation
is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial
present value of benefits  

69  

expected to be paid upon retirement based on
estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpension postretirement benefit
plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial present value of
postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The
fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of cumulative
company and participant contributions made to an irrevocable trust fund, held
for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund.
Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit
obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a Prepaid pension asset equal to
this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair
value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a Retirement and
nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess.  

The
current portion of the Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit
obligations represents the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the
next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan
basis. This obligation is recorded in Compensation and benefits in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

Net
periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is
recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and includes service cost,
interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service
costs/(credits) and (gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of
Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings and amortization of the net
transition asset remaining in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings. Service cost represents the actuarial present value of
participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the
time value of money cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events,
such as changes in employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial
assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding
change in the Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. The result of
these events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the
service lives of the participants, provided such amounts exceed thresholds
which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. The
average service lives of the participants in the IBM Personal Pension Plan, a
U.S. defined benefit pension plan, currently approximates 10 years and varies
for participants in non-U.S. plans. Net periodic cost/(income) is recorded in
Cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on
the employees  respective function.  

(Gains)/losses
and prior service costs/(credits) not recognized as a component of net periodic
cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise are
recognized as a component of Gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings
in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity, net of tax. Those
(gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as
a component of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and
amortization provisions of applicable accounting standards. (Gains)/losses
arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or
as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/(credits)
represent the cost of benefit improvements attributable to prior service
granted in plan amendments.  

The
measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is provided
by third-party actuaries based on estimates and assumptions approved by the
company s management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use
participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of
service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates,
expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest
crediting rates and mortality rates.  

Defined Contribution Plans   

The company records expense for defined
contribution plans for the company s contribution when the employee renders
service to the company, essentially coinciding with the cash contributions to
the plans. The expense is recorded in Cost, SG A and RD E in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective function.  

Stock-Based Compensation   

Stock-based compensation represents the cost
related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measures
stock-based compensation cost at grant date, based on the estimated fair value
of the award and recognizes the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated
forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company estimates
the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The cost
is recorded in Cost, SG A, and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
based on the employees  respective function.  

The
company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the
company s income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost
recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will
receive a deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for
financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the
income tax return are recorded in Additional Paid-In Capital (if the tax deduction
exceeds the deferred tax asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
(if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in
capital exists from previous awards).  

See
note T,  Stock-Based Compensation,  on pages 102 to 105 for additional
information.  

70  

Income Taxes   

Income tax expense is based on reported
income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of
temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized
for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income
tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted
tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to
the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need
for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence
including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the
feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its
determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the
valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax
expense in the period in which such determination is made.  

The
company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the company s belief that its
tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain
positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. Benefits
from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that is
greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The current
portion of tax liabilities is included in Taxes and the noncurrent portion of
tax liabilities is included in Other Liabilities in the Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position. To the extent that the final tax outcome of these
matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences impact income
tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and
penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments
are included in income tax expense.  

Translation of Non-U.S. Currency
Amounts   

Assets and liabilities of non-U.S.
subsidiaries that have a local functional currency are translated to U.S.
dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments are recorded in
Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in the
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity. Income and expense items are
translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.  

Inventories,
plant, rental machines and other property net, and other non-monetary assets
and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S.
dollars are translated at approximate exchange rates prevailing when the
company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities
denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end
exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in Other (income)
and expense. Cost of sales and depreciation are translated at historical
exchange rates. All other income and expense items are translated at the
weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. These
translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in which
exchange rates change.  

Derivatives   

All derivatives are recognized in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported in
Prepaid expenses and other current assets, Investments and sundry assets, Other
accrued expenses and liabilities or Other liabilities. Classification of each
derivative as current or noncurrent is based upon whether the maturity of the
instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge
accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as amended by SFAS No. 138,  Accounting
for Certain Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities,  SFAS No. 149,
 Amendment of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, 
and SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments An
Amendment of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140  (collectively,  SFAS No. 133 ),
the company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk
exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash
flows, hedge effectiveness criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying
transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting criteria
are formally designated as hedges. These criteria demonstrate that the
derivative is expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in fair
value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both at inception of the hedging
relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of assessing hedge
effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally documented at
hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and measures hedge
ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated hedge period.  

The
company applies hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, whereby
the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value
of a recognized financial asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm
commitment ( fair value  hedge); (2) the variability of anticipated cash
flows of a forecasted transaction or the cash flows to be received or paid
related to a recognized financial asset or liability ( cash flow  hedge); or (3) a
hedge of a long-term investment ( net investment  hedge) in a foreign
operation. In addition, the company may enter into derivative contracts that
economically hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not
apply or the company elects not to apply hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133.
In these cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in
the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income,
act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged
item(s).  

Changes
in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge,
along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged
exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate
risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to Interest
expense and Cost of Financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For
hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or
liabilities, derivative fair  

71  

value adjustments are recognized in Other
(income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the
fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are
recorded, net of applicable taxes, in the Accumulated gains and (losses) not
affecting retained earnings, a component of Stockholders  equity. When net
income is affected by the variability of the underlying cash flow, the
applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from the derivative that is
deferred in Stockholders  equity is released to net income and reported in
Interest expense, Cost, SG A expense or Other (income) and expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the underlying cash
flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging derivatives is measured
on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of
net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative financial
instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as foreign
currency translation adjustments, net of applicable taxes, in the Accumulated
gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the Consolidated
Statement of Stockholders  Equity. Changes in the fair value of the portion of
a net investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment
are recorded in Interest expense.  

When
the underlying hedged item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of
the derivative are included in net income each period until the instrument
matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or
liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required
under other relevant accounting standards. Derivatives that are not designated
as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not
effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item
throughout the designated hedge period (collectively,  ineffectiveness ), are
recorded in net income each period and are reported in Other (income) and
expense.  

The
company reports cash flows arising from derivative financial instruments
designated as fair value or cash flow hedges consistent with the classification
of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that these derivatives are
hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with derivatives designated as
fair value or cash flow hedges are classified in Cash flows from operating
activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flows from
derivatives designated as net investment hedges and derivatives that do not
qualify as hedges are reported in investing activities. For currency swaps
designated as hedges of foreign currency denominated debt (included in the
company s debt risk management program as addressed in note K,  Derivatives and
Hedging Transactions,  on pages 88 to 91), cash flows directly associated
with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are reported in
Payments to settle debt in the Cash flow from financing activities section of
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

Financial Instruments   

In determining the fair value of its
financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions
that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet
date. For the majority of financial instruments, including most derivatives,
long-term investments and long-term debt, standard market conventions and techniques
such as discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing models, replacement cost
and termination cost are used to determine fair value. Dealer quotes are used
for the remaining financial instruments.  

All
methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and
such value may never actually be realized.  

Cash Equivalents   

All highly liquid investments with maturities
of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash
equivalents.  

Marketable Securities   

Debt securities included in Current assets
represent securities that are expected to be realized in cash within one year
of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt securities that are not expected to
be realized in cash within one year and alliance equity securities that are
within the scope of SFAS No. 115,  Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities,  are included in Investments and sundry assets.
Those securities are considered available for sale and are reported at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, recorded in
Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings within
Stockholders  equity. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the
specific identification method. Other-than-temporary declines in market value
from original cost are charged to Other (income) and expense in the period in
which the loss occurs. In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline
in the market value has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and
extent to which, fair value of the investment is below its cost. Realized gains
and losses also are included in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings.  

Inventories   

Raw materials, work in process and finished
goods are stated at the lower of average cost or market. In accordance with
SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows,  cash flows related to the sale of
inventories are reflected in Net cash from operating activities from continuing
operations in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

72  

Allowance for Uncollectible Receivables   

TRADE   

An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on
a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known
troubled accounts.  

FINANCING   

Financing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing
leases and loans. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate both its
specific and its unallocated reserves, which are applied consistently to its
different portfolios are as follows:  

Specific The company reviews all financing account receivables
considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an
analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as
financial statements, news reports and published credit ratings, as well as the
current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior
collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is
measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable.
Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the
receivable and calculates a recommended estimate of the potential loss and the
probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the
company records a specific reserve.  

Unallocated The company records an unallocated reserve that is
calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding
accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon
credit rating, probability of default, term, asset characteristics and loss
history.  

Receivable losses are charged against the allowance
when management believes the uncollectibility of the receivable is confirmed.
Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.  

Certain receivables for which the company recorded
specific reserves may also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets
are those receivables (impaired loans or non-performing leases) with specific
reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be
unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or
loan agreement. Income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash
collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash
received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest
income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate,
based upon changes in client circumstances.  

Estimated Residual Values of Lease Assets   

The recorded residual values of the company s lease assets are
estimated at the inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the
assets at the end of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the
realizable value of its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in
specific future residual values are not recognized before realization through
remarketing efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values
that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification
and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual-value estimate. For
sales-type and direct financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net
investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income in the
period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned
income to reduce future-period financing income.  

Common Stock   

Common stock refers to the $.20 par value capital stock as designated
in the company s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for
using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed
and recorded using a weighted-average basis.  

Earnings per Share of Common Stock   

Earnings per share of common stock basic is computed by dividing Net
income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the
period. Earnings per share of common stock, assuming dilution, reflects the
maximum potential dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to
issue common stock were exercised or converted into common stock and would then
share in the net income of the company. See note R,  Earnings Per Share of
Common Stock,  on page 101 for additional information.  

Note B. Accounting Changes     

New Standards to be Implemented   

In February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position (FSP)
Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 157-1,  Application of FASB Statement No. 157
to FASB Statement No. 13 and Its Related Interpretive Accounting
Pronouncements That Address Leasing Transactions,  and FSP FAS 157-2,  Effective
Date of FASB Statement No. 157.  FSP FAS 157-1 removes leasing from the
scope of SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements.  FSP FAS 157-2 delays the
effective date of SFAS No. 157 from 2008 to 2009 for all nonfinancial
assets and nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or
disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis (at
least annually). See SFAS No. 157 discussion on page 74.  

73  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),
 Business Combinations,  which will become effective in 2009 via prospective
application to new business combinations. This Statement requires that the
acquisition method of accounting be applied to a broader set of business
combinations, amends the definition of a business combination, provides a
definition of a business, requires an acquirer to recognize an acquired
business at its fair value at the acquisition date and requires the assets and
liabilities assumed in a business combination to be measured and recognized at
their fair values as of the acquisition date (with limited exceptions). The
company will adopt this Statement in fiscal year 2009 and its effects on future
periods will depend on the nature and significance of any acquisitions subject
to this statement.  

In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,
 Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of
ARB No. 51.  This Statement requires that the noncontrolling interest in
the equity of a subsidiary be accounted for and reported as equity, provides
revised guidance on the treatment of net income and losses attributable to the
noncontrolling interest and changes in ownership interests in a subsidiary and
requires additional disclosures that identify and distinguish between the
interests of the controlling and noncontrolling owners. Pursuant to the
transition provisions of SFAS No. 160, the company will adopt the
Statement in fiscal year 2009 via retrospective application of the presentation
and disclosure requirements. The company does not expect the adoption of this
Statement to have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159,
 The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities,
Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115,  which will become
effective in 2008. SFAS No. 159 permits entities to measure eligible
financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on
an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be
accounted for at fair value under other generally accepted accounting
principles. The fair value measurement election is irrevocable and subsequent
changes in fair value must be recorded in earnings. The company will adopt this
Statement in fiscal year 2008 and does not expect the adoption of this
Statement to have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In September 2006, the FASB finalized SFAS No. 157
which will become effective in 2008 except as amended by FSP FAS 157-1 and FSP
FAS 157-2 as previously described. This Statement defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about
fair value measurements; however, it does not require any new fair value
measurements. The provisions of SFAS No. 157 will be applied prospectively
to fair value measurements and disclosures for financial assets and financial
liabilities and nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities recognized or disclosed
at fair value in the financial statements on at least an annual basis beginning
in the first quarter of 2008. While the company does not expect the adoption of
this Statement to have a material impact on its Consolidated Financial
Statements at this time, the company will monitor any additional implementation
guidance that is issued that addresses the fair value measurements for certain
financial assets, such as private market pension plan assets, and nonfinancial
assets and nonfinancial liabilities not disclosed at fair value in the
financial statements on at least an annual basis.  

Standards Implemented   

In the first quarter of 2007, the company adopted SFAS No. 156,  Accounting
for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, 
that provides guidance on accounting for separately recognized servicing assets
and servicing liabilities. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 156,
separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities must be
initially measured at fair value, if practicable. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the company may use either the amortization method or the fair
value measurement method to account for servicing assets and servicing
liabilities within the scope of this Statement. The adoption of this Statement
did not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In the first quarter of 2007, the company adopted SFAS
No. 155,  Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment
of FASB Statements No. 133 and 140,  which permits fair value
remeasurement for any hybrid financial instrument that contains an embedded
derivative that otherwise would require bifurcation in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.  The adoption of this Statement did not have a material effect on
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

The company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting
for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 
(FIN 48) on January 1, 2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting and reporting
for uncertainties in income tax law. This Interpretation prescribes a
comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement,
presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be
taken in income tax returns. See note O,  Taxes,  on pages 97 to 99 for
additional information, including the effects of adoption on the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position.  

74  

Effective December 31, 2006, the company adopted
SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other
Postretirement Plans, an Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and
132(R),  which requires the recognition of the funded status of the
retirement-related benefit plans in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position and the recognition of the changes in that funded status in the year
in which the changes occur through Gains and (losses) not affecting retained
earnings, net of applicable tax effects. The provisions of SFAS No. 158
were adopted pursuant to the transition provisions therein. The company
measures defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of December 31 and
SFAS No. 158 did not affect the company s existing valuation practices.
The adoption of SFAS No. 158 had no impact on the company s existing debt
covenants, credit ratings or financial flexibility. See note U,  Retirement-Related
Benefits,  on pages 105 to 116 for additional information, including the
incremental effect of adoption on the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position.  

In September 2006, the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 108, codified
as SAB Topic 1.N,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when
Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.  SAB No. 108
describes the approach that should be used to quantify the materiality of a
misstatement and provides guidance for correcting prior-year errors. The
company early adopted SAB No. 108 in the third quarter of 2006 and
accordingly, follows SAB No. 108 requirements when quantifying financial
statement misstatements. The adoption of SAB No. 108 did not require any
changes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In the third quarter of 2006, the company adopted FSP
FIN 46(R)-6,  Determining the Variability to Be Considered in Applying FASB
Interpretation No. 46(R).  FSP FIN No. 46(R)-6 clarifies that the
variability to be considered in applying FASB Interpretation 46(R) shall
be based on an analysis of the design of the variable interest entity. The
adoption of this FSP did not have a material effect on the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

In the first quarter of 2006, the company adopted SFAS
No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error Corrections a replacement of APB
Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3.  SFAS No. 154 changed
the requirements for the accounting for and reporting of a voluntary change in
accounting principle. The adoption of this statement did not affect the
Consolidated Financial Statements in fiscal years 2007 and 2006. Its effects on
future periods will depend on the nature and significance of any future
accounting changes subject to this statement.  

Beginning January 2006, the company adopted SFAS No. 151,
 Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43, Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151
requires certain abnormal expenditures to be recognized as expenses in the
current period versus being capitalized in inventory. It also requires that the
amount of fixed production overhead allocated to inventory be based on the
normal capacity of the production facilities. The adoption of this statement
did not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Effective January 1, 2005, the company adopted
the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment.  The company
elected to adopt the modified retrospective application method provided by SFAS
No. 123(R) and accordingly, financial statement amounts for the
periods presented herein reflect results as if the fair value method of
expensing had been applied from the original effective date of SFAS No. 123.
See note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 70 and note T,  Stock-Based
Compensation,  on pages 102 to 105 for additional information.  

In March 2005, the FASB issued FASB
Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement
Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143  (FIN 47). FIN 47
clarifies that conditional AROs meet the definition of liabilities and should
be recognized when incurred if their fair values can be reasonably estimated.
The company implemented FIN 47 at December 31, 2005 and recorded
conditional AROs of approximately $85 million. These conditional AROs relate to
the company s contractual obligations to remove leasehold improvements in
certain non-U.S. locations thereby restoring leased space to its original
condition. Upon implementation of FIN 47, the company recorded a $36 million
charge (net of income tax benefit of $21 million) which was reported as a
cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle in the 2005 Consolidated
Statement of Earnings. The company s accounting policy for AROs is described in
note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 69.  

The pro forma effect of retroactively applying FIN 47
for the year 2005 was:  

($ in millions except per share amounts)   

FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31:   

2005   

Pro forma amounts assuming
  accounting change is applied retroactively:  

Pro forma net income  

$  

7,964  

Pro forma earnings per
  share of common stock assuming dilution  

$  

4.89  

Pro forma earnings per
  share of common stock basic  

$  

4.98  

ARO liabilities at
  December 31, 2005  

$  

85  

75  

As of December 31, 2005, the company was unable to estimate the
range of settlement dates and the related probabilities for certain asbestos
remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related to the encapsulated
structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement unless the buildings
are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the company would remediate
only if it performed major renovations of certain existing buildings. Because
these conditional obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, the company
could not develop a reasonable estimate of their fair values. The company will
continue to assess its ability to estimate fair values at each future reporting
date. The related liability will be recognized once sufficient additional
information becomes available.  

In June 2005, the FASB issued FSP No. FAS
143-1,  Accounting for Electronic Equipment Waste Obligations,  (FSP FAS 143-1)
that provides guidance on how commercial users and producers of electronic
equipment should recognize and measure asset retirement obligations associated
with the European Directive 2002/96/EC on Waste Electrical and Electronic
Equipment (the  Directive ). In 2005, the company adopted FSP FAS 143-1 in
those European Union (EU) member countries that transposed the Directive into
country-specific laws. Its adoption did not have a material effect on the
Consolidated Financial Statements. The effect of applying FSP FAS 143-1 in the
remaining countries in future periods is not expected to have a material effect
on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In the third quarter of 2005, the company adopted SFAS
No. 153,  Exchanges of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29. 
SFAS No. 153 requires that exchanges of productive assets be accounted for
at fair value unless fair value cannot be reasonably determined or the
transaction lacks commercial substance. The adoption of SFAS No. 153 did
not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Note
C. Acquisitions/Divestitures     

Acquisitions   

2007   

In 2007, the company completed 12 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of
$1,144 million.  

The Software segment completed six acquisitions: in
the first quarter, Consul Risk Management International BV and Vallent
Corporation, both privately held companies. Four acquisitions were completed in
the third quarter: Watchfire Corporation, WebDialogs Inc. and Princeton Softech
Inc., all privately held companies, and DataMirror Corporation, a publicly held
company. Each acquisition further complemented and enhanced the software
product portfolio.  

Global Technology Services completed four
acquisitions: in the first quarter, Softek Storage Solutions Corporation
(Softek) and DM Information Systems, Ltd. (DMIS), both privately held
companies. Two acquisitions were completed in the fourth quarter: Novus
Consulting Group, Inc. and Serbian Business Systems, both privately held
companies. Softek augments the company s unified data mobility offerings and
worldwide delivery expertise for managing data in storage array, host and
virtualized IT environments. DMIS will enhance and complement the Technology
Service offerings. Novus CG, a storage solution company, will provide improved
access to business information, enable stronger regulatory and corporate
compliance and improve overall information technology performance. Serbian
Business Systems establishes the company s maintenance and technical support
services business in Serbia.  

Global Business Services completed one acquisition in
the fourth quarter: IT Gruppen AS, which will add to the company s presence in
the retail and media sectors.  

Systems and Technology completed one acquisition in
the fourth quarter: XIV, Ltd., a privately held company focused on storage
systems technology.  

Purchase price consideration was paid in cash. These
acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of
acquired cash and cash equivalents.  

The table on page 77 reflects the purchase price
related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as
of December 31, 2007.  

During the fourth quarter of 2007, the company entered
into a definitive agreement to acquire Cognos, Inc. The acquisition of
Cognos, Inc., a publicly held company, was completed in January 2008.
The acquisition of Cognos, Inc. supports the Information on Demand
strategy and will provide the company with a strong entry in the Business
Intelligence market.  

The closing of the Telelogic AB acquisition, announced
in the second quarter of 2007, is conditioned upon satisfactory completion of
regulatory reviews in the European Union. Regulatory reviews in the U.S. have
been completed.  

76  

N/A   Not applicable   

The acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded
at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items
that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired
companies and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which
qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. Substantially all of the goodwill
is not deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average life of the
identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 5.4 years. With the
exception of goodwill, these identified intangible assets will be amortized
over their useful lives. Goodwill of $999 million was assigned to the Software
($639 million), Global Business Services ($14 million), Global Technology
Services ($76 million) and Systems and Technology ($269 million) segments.  

See note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 69
for further description of the company s accounting policies related to
business combinations and intangible assets, including Goodwill.  

2006   

In 2006, the company completed 13 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of
$4,817 million, which was paid in cash. The cost of these acquisitions are
reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and
cash equivalents. The tables on page 79 represent the purchase price
allocations for all of the 2006 acquisitions. The Micromuse Inc., FileNet
Corporation, Internet Security Systems, Inc. and MRO Software, Inc.
acquisitions are shown separately given their significant purchase prices.  

Micromuse, Inc. On February 15, 2006, the company acquired
100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Micromuse, Inc. for cash
consideration of $862 million. Micromuse is a leading provider of network
management software used by banks, telecommunications carriers, governments,
retailers and other organizations to monitor and manage their sophisticated
technology infrastructures. The software helps customers manage increasingly
complex IT systems that support the proliferation of voice, data and video
traffic due to the growing adoption of voice over IP (VoIP)-based audio and
video services delivered over the Internet. The combination of Micromuse s
software and the company s IT services management technology can provide a
comprehensive approach to help customers reduce the complexity of their IT
environments, lower operational costs and address compliance mandates.
Micromuse was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition and
Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 79, has been entirely assigned
to the Software segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the
intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 4.0 years.  

In the fourth quarter of 2006, as a result of
completing the integration of Micromuse s legal and intercompany structure into
the company s legal structure, the company recorded an increase in current
assets and current liabilities with a corresponding offset in Goodwill totaling
$137 million. These increases relate to an increase in both Deferred tax assets
and Current tax liabilities. These adjustments are reflected in the table on page 79.  

77  

FileNet Corporation On October 12, 2006, the company acquired 100
percent of the outstanding common shares of FileNet Corporation for cash
consideration of $1,609 million. FileNet is a leading provider of business
process and content management solutions that help companies simplify critical
and everyday decision making processes and give organizations a competitive
advantage. The FileNet acquisition enhances the company s ability to meet
increasing client demand for a combination of content- and process-centric
business process management capabilities, which is driven by changing
governance and compliance mandates, as well as the need to integrate
content-centric business processes with enterprise applications. The company
has integrated its business process management and service oriented
architecture (SOA) technologies with the FileNet platform to allow customers to
access content wherever it may reside and use it in the context of business
processes. FileNet was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition
and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 79, has been entirely
assigned to the Software segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of
the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 5.9 years.  

Internet Security Systems, Inc. On October 20, 2006, the
company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Internet
Security Systems, Inc. (ISS) for cash consideration of $1,368 million. ISS
provides security solutions to thousands of the world s leading companies and
governments, helping to proactively protect against Internet threats across
networks, desktops and servers. ISS software, appliances and services monitor
and manage network vulnerabilities and rapidly respond in advance of potential
threats. The acquisition advances the company s strategy to utilize IT
services, software and consulting expertise to automate labor-based processes
into standardized, software-based services that can help clients optimize and
transform their businesses. ISS was integrated into the Global Technology
Services segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 79,
has been entirely assigned to the Global Technology Services segment. The
overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased,
excluding Goodwill, is 5.6 years.  

MRO Software Inc. On October 5, 2006, the company acquired 100
percent of the outstanding common shares of MRO Software, Inc. for cash
consideration of $739 million. MRO s asset and service management software and
consulting services are used by many of the world s top companies to
effectively manage how they buy, maintain and retire assets such as production
equipment, facilities, transportation and information technology hardware and
software in a wide variety of industries including utilities, manufacturing,
energy, pharmaceutical and telecommunications. The acquisition builds upon the
company s strategy to leverage business consulting, IT services and software to
develop repeatable tools that help clients optimize and transform their
business. MRO was integrated into the Software, Global Technology Services and
Global Business Services segments upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected
in the table on page 79, has been assigned to the Software segment for
$337 million, Global Technology Services segment for $49 million and Global
Business Services segment for $122 million. The overall weighted-average useful
life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 5.6 years.  

Other Acquisitions The company acquired nine additional companies that
are presented as Other Acquisitions in the table on page 79. Three of the
acquisitions were Global Services-related companies: two were integrated into
the Global Technology Services segment: Viacore, Inc. and Palisades
Technology Partners, LLP; the third, Valchemy, Inc., was integrated into
the Global Business Services segment. Six of the acquisitions were
software-related companies that were integrated into the Software segment: Cims
Lab; Language Analysis Systems, (LAS) Inc.; Buildforge; Unicorn Solutions, Inc.;
Rembo Technology; and Webify Solutions. The purchase price allocations resulted
in aggregate Goodwill of $211 million, of which $161 million was assigned to
the Software segment and $51 million was assigned to the Global Technology
Services segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible
assets purchased in these acquisitions, excluding Goodwill, is 3.4 years.  

78  

* Adjustments primarily
relate to acquisition costs, deferred taxes and other accruals.   

   N/A   Not applicable   

N/A   Not applicable   

2005   

In 2005, the company completed 16 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of
$2,022 million, which was paid in cash. The cost of these acquisitions are
reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and
cash equivalents. The table on page 80 represents the purchase price
allocations for all of the 2005 acquisitions. The Ascential Corporation
(Ascential) acquisition is shown separately given its significant purchase
price.  

Ascential On April 29, 2005, the company acquired 100 percent of
the outstanding common shares of Ascential for cash consideration of $1,140
million. Ascential is a provider of enterprise data integration software used
to help build enterprise data warehouses, power business intelligence systems,
consolidate enterprise applications, create and manage master repositories of
critical business information and enable on demand data access. Ascential
complements and strengthens the company s information and integration offerings
and further extends the company s ability to enable clients to become on demand

79  

businesses by providing a single, agile infrastructure for delivering
accurate, consistent, timely and coherent information. Ascential was integrated
into the Software segment upon acquisition and Goodwill, as reflected in the
table below, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. The overall
weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased, excluding
Goodwill, is 3.9 years.  

Other Acquisitions The company acquired 15 additional companies that
are presented as Other Acquisitions in the table below. Four of the
acquisitions were technology services-related companies that were integrated
into the Global Technology Services segment: Network Solutions; Classic Blue;
Corio; and Equitant. One of the acquisitions, HealthLink, was integrated into
the Global Business Services segment. Nine of the acquisitions were
software-related companies that were integrated into the Software segment:
iPhrase; Data Power Technology, Inc.; Bowstreet; Collation Inc.; DWL;
Isogon Corporation; PureEdge Solutions, Inc.; SRD; and Gluecode. One
acquisition, Meiosys, was integrated into the Systems and Technology segment.
The purchase price allocations resulted in aggregate Goodwill of $791 million,
of which $456 million was assigned to the Software segment; $239 million was
assigned to the Global Technology Services segment; $62 million was assigned to
the Global Business Services segment and $34 million was assigned to the
Systems and Technology segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the
intangible assets purchased, excluding Goodwill, is 3.1 years.  

* Adjustments primarily
relate to acquisition costs, deferred taxes and other accruals.   

   N/A   Not applicable   

Divestitures   

2007   

In January 2007, the company announced an agreement with Ricoh
Company Limited ( Ricoh ), a publicly traded company, to form a joint venture
company based on the Printing System Division (a division of the Systems and
Technology segment).  

80  

The company initially created a wholly owned
subsidiary, InfoPrint Solutions Company, LLC (InfoPrint), by contributing
specific assets and liabilities from its printer business. The Printing Systems
Division generated approximately $1 billion of revenue in 2006. The InfoPrint
portfolio includes solutions for production printing for enterprises and
commercial printers as well as solutions for office workgroup environments and
industrial segments. On June 1, 2007 ( closing date ), the company
divested 51 percent of its interest in InfoPrint to Ricoh. The company will
divest its remaining 49 percent ownership to Ricoh quarterly over the next
three years from the closing date. At December 31, 2007, the company s
ownership in InfoPrint was 40.8 percent.  

The total consideration the company agreed to on January 24,
2007 (the date the definitive agreement was signed) was $725 million which was
paid in cash to the company on the closing date. The cash received was
consideration for the initial 51 percent acquisition of InfoPrint by Ricoh as
well as a prepayment for the remaining 49 percent to be acquired and certain
royalties and services to be provided by the company to InfoPrint. Final
consideration for this transaction will be determined at the end of the
three-year period based upon the participation in the profits and losses
recorded by the equity partners. The company evaluated its ownership and
participation in InfoPrint under the requirements of FIN 46(R). The company
concluded that InfoPrint met the requirements of a variable interest entity,
the company is not the primary beneficiary of the entity and that deconsolidation
of the applicable net assets was appropriate. The company s investment in
InfoPrint will be accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  

The company will provide maintenance services for one
year, certain hardware products for three years and other information
technology and business process services to InfoPrint for up to five years. The
company assessed the fair value of these arrangements, and, as a result,
deferred $274 million of the proceeds. This amount will be recorded as revenue,
primarily in the company s services segments, as services are provided to
InfoPrint.  

The royalty agreements are related to the use of
certain of the company s trademarks for up to 10 years. The company assessed
the fair value of these royalty agreements, and, as a result, deferred $116
million of the proceeds. This amount will be recognized as Intellectual
property and custom development income as it is earned in subsequent periods.  

Net assets contributed, transaction related expenses
and provisions were $90 million, resulting in an expected total pre-tax gain of
$245 million, of which $81 million was recorded in Other (income) and expense
in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the second quarter of 2007.  

The deferred pre-tax gain of $164 million at the
closing date was primarily related to: (1) the transfer of the company s
remaining 49 percent interest in InfoPrint to Ricoh, and, (2) the transfer
of certain maintenance services employees to InfoPrint. The company will
recognize this amount over a three year period as the remaining ownership
interest is divested and the employees are transferred. The pre-tax gain will
be recorded in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings.  

As discussed below and on page 82, the company
divested its Personal Computing Business to Lenovo in 2005. A portion of the
total consideration received in that transaction included Lenovo equity. This
equity was subject to specific lock-up provisions. These restrictions were
modified in 2006 as discussed below.  

In 2007, the company divested 523 million shares of
Lenovo common stock with proceeds approximating $204 million. At December 31,
2007 the company s equity in Lenovo represented 4.8 percent of ordinary voting
shares and 8.8 percent of total ownership.  

For the year ended December 31, 2007, the company
recorded a pre-tax gain of $30 million related to the divestiture. This amount
was primarily due to a reversal of an indemnity provision recorded at the
closing.  

2006   

As discussed above, a portion of the total consideration received in
the Personal Computing business divestiture included Lenovo equity. This equity
was subject to specific lock-up provisions at closing.  

In the second quarter of 2006, the company and Lenovo
agreed to revise these restrictions such that the company can now fully divest
its shares in Lenovo after November 1, 2007 versus the prior lock-up
expiration date of May 1, 2008. As a result of the change in the lock-up
restrictions, the company considers all Lenovo shares to be within the scope of
SFAS No. 115 and has classified them as available for sale.  

On August 4, 2006, the company signed an
agreement with a financial institution to establish a structure, with the
institution acting as agent, to facilitate the company s disposition of Lenovo
shares from time to time, after their release from the lock-up provisions.  At December 31, 2006, the company had
not divested any shares through the financial institution.  

For the year ended December 31, 2006, the company
recorded a pre-tax gain of $45 million related to the divestiture. This amount
was primarily due to a reversal of an indemnity provision recorded at the
closing.  

2005   

On April 30, 2005 (closing date), the company completed the
divestiture of its Personal Computing business to Lenovo, a publicly traded
company on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange. The total consideration that the
company agreed to on December 7, 2004 (the date the definitive agreement
was signed) was $1,750 million which included $650 million in cash, $600 million
in Lenovo equity (valued at the December 6, 2004 closing price) and the
transfer of approximately $500 million of net liabilities. At the closing date,
total consideration     

  81  

was valued at $1,725 million, comprised of: $650 million in cash, $542
million in Lenovo equity and $533 million in net liabilities transferred.
Transaction related expenses and provisions were $628 million, resulting in a
net pre-tax gain of $1,097 million which was recorded in Other (income) and
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the second quarter of
2005. In addition, the company paid Lenovo $138 million in cash primarily to
assume additional liabilities outside the scope of the original agreement. This
transaction had no impact on Income from Continuing Operations. Total net cash
proceeds, less the deposit received at the end of 2004 for $25 million, related
to these transactions were $487 million.  

The equity received at the closing date represented
9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 18.9 percent of total ownership in
Lenovo. Subsequent to the closing date, Lenovo s capital structure changed due
to new third-party investments. As a result, the company s equity at June 30,
2005 represented 9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 17.05 percent of
total ownership in Lenovo. The equity securities have been accounted for under
the cost method of accounting. The equity is subject to specific lock-up
provisions that restrict the company from divesting the securities. These
restrictions apply to specific equity tranches and expire over a three-year
period from the closing date. The Lenovo equity was valued at $542 million at
the closing date and is recorded in Investments and sundry assets in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In addition, the company recorded
an equity deferral of $112 million to reflect the value of the lock-up
provisions. This deferral was recorded as a contra-investment in Investments
and sundry assets.  

As part of the agreements with Lenovo, the company
will provide certain services. These services include marketing support,
information technology, human resources support and learning services. These
service arrangements are primarily for periods of three years or less and can
be terminated earlier by Lenovo. The company estimated the fair value of these
service arrangements, and, as a result, has deferred $262 million of the
transaction gain. This amount will be recorded as revenue, primarily in the
Global Services segments, as services are provided to Lenovo. The deferred
amount was recorded in Deferred income in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position.  

The company also recorded direct and incremental
expenses and related provisions of $254 million associated with the
divestiture, consisting of $74 million for certain indemnities; $64 million for
employee-related charges; $40 million in real estate and information technology
costs; $20 million in transaction expenses; $22 million of goodwill; and $34
million in other expenses. The company, as part of the agreement, retained the
right and will be given a preference to provide maintenance, warranty and
financing services to Lenovo. The company retained the warranty liability for
all Personal Computing business products sold prior to the closing date. Lenovo
will have the right to use certain IBM Trademarks under a Trademark License
Agreement for a term of five years. In addition, the company entered into an
arm s-length supply agreement with Lenovo for a term of five years, designed to
provide the company with computers for its internal use.  

In the third quarter of 2005, as a result of the
third-party investments previously described, Lenovo was required to repurchase
the first equity tranche at a specified share price. The equity repurchase
resulted in the receipt of $152 million of cash and a pre-tax gain of $17
million. As a result of this transaction, the company s equity in Lenovo at September 30,
2005 represented 9.9 percent of ordinary voting shares and 14.88 percent of
total ownership.  

Also, in the second half of the year, the company
received an additional $23 million of cash from Lenovo related to working
capital adjustments, net of expenses related to employee matters. These
transactions were consistent with the company s previous estimates. Overall,
including the gain on the equity sale recorded in the third quarter, the
company recorded an additional net pre-tax gain of $11 million; the resulting
net pre-tax gain for the year ending December 31, 2005 is $1,108 million.  

In addition, at December 31, 2005, the deferred
income balance related to the services arrangements previously discussed is
$169 million.  

Note D. Financial Instruments (excluding
derivatives)     

Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and derivative
financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in the company s
financial statements. Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments
are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts
payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt are financial liabilities
with carrying values that approximate fair value. The carrying amount of
long-term debt is approximately $23.0 billion and $13.8 billion and the estimated
fair value is $26.5 billion and $16.2 billion at December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively.  

In the absence of quoted prices in active markets,
considerable judgment is required in developing estimates of fair value.
Estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the company could
realize in a current market transaction. The following methods and assumptions
were used to estimate fair values:  

82  

LOANS AND FINANCING RECEIVABLES   

  Estimates of fair value are based on discounted future cash flows using
current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit
ratings for the same remaining maturities.  

RESTRICTED SECURITIES   

  The fair value of restricted securities was estimated based on a quoted
price for an identical unrestricted security, adjusted to reflect the effect of
the restriction.  

LONG-TERM DEBT   

  For publicly-traded debt, estimates of fair value are based on market
prices. For other debt, fair value is estimated based on rates currently
available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities.  

Marketable Securities*   

  The following table summarizes the company s marketable securities, all
of which are considered available-for-sale, and alliance investments.  

* Gross unrealized gains (before taxes) on
marketable securities were $7 million and $19 million at December 31, 2007
and 2006, respectively. Gross unrealized gains (before taxes) on alliance
investments were $545 million and $178 million at December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively. Gross unrealized losses (before taxes) on marketable
securities were immaterial to the Consolidated Financial Statements at
December 31, 2007 and 2006. Gross unrealized losses (before taxes) on
alliance investments were $18 million at December 31, 2007 and immaterial
to the Consolidated Financial Statements at December 31, 2006. See note M,
 Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on page 93 for net change in unrealized
gains and losses on marketable securities.   

   ** Included within Investments and sundry
assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. See note H,
 Investments and Sundry Assets,  on page 84.   

Note
E. Inventories     

Note
F. Financing Receivables     

Net investment in sales-type leases is for leases that relate
principally to the company s equipment and are for terms ranging from two to
seven years. Net investment in sales-type leases includes unguaranteed residual
values of $915 million and $854 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $1,016 million and
$1,005 million and of allowance for uncollectible accounts of $127 million and
$135 million at those dates, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum
lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2007, expressed as a percentage
of the total, are approximately: 2008, 50 percent; 2009, 30 percent; 2010, 15
percent; 2011, 5 percent; and 2012 and beyond, 1 percent.  

Commercial
financing receivables relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable
financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM products. Payment
terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to
90 days.  

Client loan
receivables relate to loans that are provided by Global Financing primarily to
the company s clients to finance the purchase of the company s software and
services. Separate contractual relationships on these financing arrangements
are for terms ranging from two to seven years. Each financing contract is
priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a history of
enforcing the terms of these separate financing agreements.  

The company
utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for non-recourse
borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were
$258 million and $304 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
These borrowings are included in note J,  Borrowings,  on pages 85 to 88.  

The company did
not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31, 2007
and 2006.  

83  

Note
G. Plant, Rental Machines and Other Property     

Note H. Investments and Sundry Assets     

* The decrease was primarily due to the
year-end remeasurement of pension assets.   

   ** Deferred transition and set-up costs and
other deferred arrangements are related to Global Services client arrangements.
Also see note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 67 for
additional information.   

   + See note K,  Derivatives and Hedging
Transactions,  on pages 88 to 91 for the fair value of all derivatives
reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.   

Note I.
Intangible Assets Including Goodwill     

Intangible
Assets   

The following table
details the company s intangible asset balances by major asset class:  

* Other intangibles are primarily acquired
proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems,
and impacts from currency translation.   

* Other intangibles are primarily acquired
proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems,
and impacts from currency translation.   

The company amortizes intangible assets over their estimated useful
lives unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Amortizable intangible assets
are tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows, and, if impaired,
written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised
values. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for
impairment and written down to fair value as required. No impairment of
intangible assets has been recorded during any of the periods presented.  

84  

The net carrying
amount of intangible assets decreased by $95 million for the year ended December 31,
2007, primarily due to the amortization of acquired intangibles, partially
offset by net increases in capitalized software.  

Total amortization
was $1,163 million and $1,076 million for the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively. The aggregate amortization expense for acquired
intangibles (excluding capitalized software) was $367 million and $316 million
for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition,
in 2007 the company retired $1,066 million of fully amortized intangible
assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization
for this amount.  

The future
amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years related to all
intangible assets that are currently recorded in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position is estimated to be as follows at December 31, 2007:  

Goodwill   

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by reportable segment,
for the year ended December 31, 2007, are presented in the table below.
There was no impairment of goodwill recorded in 2007:  

Note J.
Borrowings     

Short-Term Debt   

The weighted-average interest rates for commercial paper at December 31,
2007 and 2006, were 4.4 percent and 5.3 percent, respectively. The
weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans were 4.8 percent and 3.0
percent at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

85  

Long-Term
Debt   

PRE-SWAP
BORROWING   

* Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation.   

   ** As part of the company s 2002 acquisition
of PricewaterhouseCoopers  Global Business Consulting and Technology Services
Unit, the company issued convertible notes bearing interest at a stated rate of
3.43 percent with a face value of approximately $328 million to certain of the
acquired PricewaterhouseCoopers  Global Business Consulting and Technology
Services Unit partners. The notes were convertible into 4,764,543 shares of IBM
common stock at the option of the holders at any time based on a fixed
conversion price of $68.81 per share of the company s common stock. As of
December 31, 2007, all of the shares have been issued.   

   *** On January 29, 2008, IBM
International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent-owned
finance subsidiary of the company, issued $3.5 billion of 18-month floating
rate notes. These proceeds will be utilized to reduce the 364-day bridge loan
associated with the 2007 accelerated share repurchase transaction. (See note M,
 Stockholders  Equity,  on pages 92 and 93 for additional information.) As
such, the 2007 amount includes $3.5 billion of the bridge loan balance which
has been reclassified to long-term debt in accordance with SFAS No. 6,
 Classification of Short-Term Obligations Expected to be Refinanced .   

   + $4.1 billion in debt securities issued by
IBM International Group Capital LLC, as defined in Rule 3-10(b) of
Regulation S-X is included in 2008-2011 ($2.6 billion) and 2012-2013 ($1.5
billion). Debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC are
fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the company.   

   ++ In accordance with the requirements of SFAS
No. 133, the portion of the company s fixed rate debt obligations that is
hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as an
amount equal to the sum of the debt s carrying value plus an SFAS No. 133
fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt
obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates.   

86  

Post-Swap Borrowing (Long-Term Debt, Including
Current Portion)   

* Includes $2,600 million in 2007 and $1,500
million in 2006 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert
floating-rate long-term debt into fixed-rate debt. (See note K,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 88 to 91).   

   ** Includes $9,606 million in 2007 and $6,616
million in 2006 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert the
fixed-rate long-term debt into floating-rate debt.   

Pre-swap annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at
December 31, 2007, are as follows:  

Interest on Debt   

* Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation to disclose changes in the fair value of the portion of a net
investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment. See
note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 71 and 72 under
 Derivatives  for additional information.   

Refer to the related discussion on page 118 in note V,  Segment
Information,  for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See
note K,  Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 88 to 91 for a
discussion of the use of currency and interest rate swaps in the company s debt
risk management program.  

Lines of Credit   

  On June 28, 2007, the company extended by one year its five-year
$10 billion Credit Agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) with JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A., as Administrative Agent, and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent
amending the company s existing five-year $10 billion Credit Agreement (the  Existing
Agreement ) dated June 28, 2006. The Existing Agreement was not otherwise
due to expire until June 28, 2011. The total expense recorded by the
company related to these facilities was $6.2 million in 2007, $7.4 million in
2006 and $8.9 million in 2005. The amended Credit Agreement permits the company
and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10 billion on a revolving basis.
Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the
company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing Lenders,
or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement,
increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $2.0
billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and
Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit
Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement. Interest rates on borrowings
under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates,
as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains
customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and
indemnification provisions. The company believes that circumstances that might
give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as specified in
the Credit Agreement are remote. The company s other lines of credit, most of
which are uncommitted, totaled approximately $9,992 million and $9,429 million
at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Interest rates and other
terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country,
depending on local market conditions.  

87  

Note
K. Derivatives and Hedging Transactions     

  The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a
significant borrower and lender in the global markets. In the normal course of
business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign
currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity price changes and client
credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk
management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and,
where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are
denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to align rate
movements between the interest rates associated with the company s lease and
other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing
debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign
currency exposures, derivatives are used to limit the effects of foreign
exchange rate fluctuations on financial results.  

As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the
company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will
fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit
risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully
selected major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other
factors, and maintains strict dollar and term limits that correspond to each
institution s credit rating. The company s established policies and procedures
for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and
establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the
creditworthiness of counterparties. Master agreements with counterparties
include master netting arrangements as further mitigation of credit exposure to
counterparties. These arrangements permit the company to net amounts due from
the company to a counterparty with amounts due to the company from a
counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty
default.  

The company employs derivative instruments to hedge
the volatility in stockholders  equity resulting from changes in currency
exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect
to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges in
accordance with SFAS No. 133, expose the company to liquidity risk as the
derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not
offset by the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company has
established cash loss limits to monitor and manage this liquidity risk. In
2007, the company expended $258 million, all in the fourth quarter, related to
maturities of net investment hedges. At December 31, 2007, the company had
liabilities of $937 million, representing the fair value of derivative
instruments in qualifying net investment hedge relationships. Of this amount,
$495 million is expected to mature in fiscal 2008. The weighted-average
remaining maturity of all derivative instruments designated as net investment
hedges is approximately 1.5 years.  

In its hedging programs, the company uses forward
contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps and currency swaps, depending
upon the underlying exposure. The company does not use derivatives for trading
or speculative purposes, nor is it a party to leveraged derivatives.  

A brief description of the major hedging programs
follows.  

Debt Risk Management   

  The company issues debt in the global capital markets, principally to
fund its financing lease and loan portfolio. Access to cost-effective financing
can result in interest rate and/or currency mismatches with the underlying
assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the
company uses interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt into
variable-rate (or  floating-rate ) debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to
convert specific variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow
hedges).  

The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on
foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs
cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to
fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity.
These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges.  

The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on
forecasted debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward
starting interest-rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments
related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash
flow hedges.  

At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the
weighted-average remaining maturity of all swaps in the debt risk management
program was approximately five years.  

88  

Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries     (Net
Investment)   

  A significant portion of the company s foreign currency denominated
debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment which reduces the
volatility in stockholders  equity caused by changes in foreign currency
exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with
respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses currency swaps and foreign
exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose, as well as a
component of its debt management program. The currency effects of these hedges
(approximately $880 million losses in 2007, $350 million losses in 2006 and
$570 million gains in 2005, net of tax) were reflected in the Accumulated gains
and (losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the Consolidated
Statement of Stockholders  Equity, thereby offsetting a portion of the
translation adjustment of the applicable foreign subsidiaries  net assets.  

Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions   

  The company s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency,
third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods
and services among the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent
company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of
the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign
exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forwards are
accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the
company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is
approximately four years. At December 31, 2007, the weighted-average
remaining maturity of these derivative instruments was approximately 281 days,
as compared to 216 days at December 31, 2006.  

Anticipated
Commodity Purchase Transactions   

  In connection with the purchase of electricity for anticipated
manufacturing requirements, the company selectively employs forward contracts
to manage its price risk. The forwards are accounted for as cash flow hedges.
The company does not have any derivative instruments relating to this program
outstanding at December 31, 2007.  

Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency Asset/Liability Management   

  The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its
subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash
flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign
exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign
currency exposure of a portion of the company s nonfunctional currency assets
and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally
less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of
the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in
Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Equity Risk Management   

  The company is exposed to equity price changes related to certain
obligations to employees. These equity exposures are primarily related to
market price movements in certain broad equity market indices and in the
company s common stock. Changes in the overall value of these employee
compensation obligations are recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the
company utilizes equity derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically
hedge the exposures related to certain employee compensation obligations. The
derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad equity market
indices or the total return on the company s common stock. They are recorded at
fair value with gains or losses also reported in SG A expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Other Derivatives   

  The company holds warrants in connection with certain investments that
are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement
provisions. The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants
in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

The company is exposed to
a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms ( credit
risk ). The company utilizes credit default swaps to economically hedge its
credit exposures. These derivatives have remaining terms of one year or less.
The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in Other
(income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

To economically hedge its
foreign exchange exposure not covered by any of the previously discussed
programs, the company also uses certain forward and option contracts that are
not designated as accounting hedges. These derivatives are recorded at fair
value with gains and losses reported in Other (income) and expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

89  

The following tables summarize the net fair value of the derivative
instruments and the carrying value of foreign currency denominated debt
designated as a hedge of net investment at December 31, 2007 and 2006
(included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position).  

(a)   

Comprises
  assets of $181 million and liabilities of $14 million.   

(b)   

Comprises
  assets of $526 million and liabilities of $438 million.   

(c)   

Comprises
  liabilities of $937 million.   

(d)   

Comprises
  assets of $90 million and liabilities of $60 million.   

(e)   

Represents
  foreign currency denominated debt formally designated as a hedge of net
  investment.   

(a)   

Comprises
  assets of $1 million and liabilities of $140 million.   

(b)   

Comprises
  assets of $293 million and liabilities of $269 million.   

(c)   

Comprises
  assets of $42 million and liabilities of $207 million.   

(d)   

Comprises
  assets of $74 million and liabilities of $134 million.   

(e)   

Represents
  foreign currency denominated debt formally designated as a hedge of net
  investment.   

90  

Accumulated Derivative Gains or Losses   

  At December 31, 2007, in connection with its cash flow hedges of
anticipated royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net losses of
$136 million, net of tax, in Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings. Of this amount, $174 million of losses are expected to be
reclassified to net income within the next year, providing an offsetting
economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions. At December 31,
2007, losses of approximately $91 million, net of tax, were recorded in
Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in connection
with cash flow hedges of the company s borrowings. Of this amount, $67 million
of losses are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next year,
providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions.  

The following table summarizes activity in the
Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the
Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity related to all derivatives
classified as cash flow hedges:  

For the years ending December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, there were
no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings representing hedge
ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for
fair value hedges and cash flow hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure
that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are there
any anticipated in the normal course of business.  

Note
L. Other Liabilities     

* Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation as the Deferred income category is now displayed as a separate
line on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Also Asset retirement
obligations is a separate category in 2007 and the 2006 Other category has been
adjusted accordingly.   

   ** Income tax reserve amounts classified as
noncurrent as a result of 2007 implementation of FIN 48. See note O,  Taxes, 
on pages 97 to 99 for additional information.   

In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes
workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost competitiveness and
to rebalance skills. The noncurrent contractually obligated future payments
associated with these activities are reflected in the Workforce reductions
caption in the previous table.  

In addition, the company executed certain special
actions as follows: (1) the second quarter of 2005 (discussed in note Q,  2005
Actions,  on pages 99 and 100), (2) the second quarter of 2002
associated with the Microelectronics Division and rebalancing of both the
company s workforce and leased space resources, (3) the fourth quarter of
2002 associated with the acquisition of the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting
business, (4) the 2002 actions associated with the HDD business for
reductions in workforce, manufacturing capacity and space, (5) the actions
taken in 1999, and (6) the actions that were executed prior to 1994.  

91  

The following
table provides a roll forward of the current and noncurrent liabilities
associated with these special actions. The current liabilities presented in the
table are included in Other accrued expenses and liabilities in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

* The Other Adjustments column in the table
above principally includes the reclassification of noncurrent to current and
foreign currency translation adjustments. Also, in 2007, $81 million was
included in Other adjustments to record previously unrecognized actuarially
calculated gains/losses related to long-term retirement benefits in Europe.   

The workforce accruals primarily relate to the Global Services business.
The remaining liability relates to terminated employees who are no longer
working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their incomes
in certain countries. Depending on the individual country s legal requirements,
these required payments will continue until the former employee begins
receiving pension benefits or dies. Included in the December 31, 2007
workforce accruals above is $46 million associated with the HDD divestiture
discussed in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 64. The
space accruals are for ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space that
could not be sublet or space that was sublet at rates lower than the committed
lease arrangement. The length of these obligations varies by lease with the
longest extending through 2020. Other accruals are primarily the remaining
liabilities (other than workforce or space) associated with the HDD
divestiture.  

The company
employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are
preventive in nature. The company also participates in environmental
assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating
facilities, previously owned facilities and  Superfund sites. The company s maximum
exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts
have been recorded for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable
or estimable. The total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities,
including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance
recoveries, were $261 million and $252 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially
affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of the
company s operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are
subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental
remediation regulations.  

Note M. Stockholders  Equity
Activity     

The authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of
common stock, $.20 par value, of which 1,385,234,138 shares were outstanding at
December 31, 2007 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock, $.01 par
value, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2007.  

Stock Repurchases   

From time to time, the Board of Directors authorizes the company to
repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased 178,385,436 common shares
at a cost of $18,783 million, 97,564,462 common shares at a cost of $8,022
million and 90,237,800 common shares at a cost of $7,671 million in 2007, 2006
and 2005, respectively.  

Included in the 2007
repurchases highlighted above, in May, IBM International Group (IIG), a wholly
owned foreign subsidiary of the company repurchased 118.8 million shares of
common stock for $12.5 billion under accelerated share repurchase (ASR)
agreements with three banks.  

Pursuant to the
ASR agreements, executed on May 25, 2007, IIG paid an initial
purchase price of $105.18 per share for the repurchase. The initial purchase
price is subject to adjustment based on the volume weighted average price of
IBM common stock over a settlement period of three months for each of the
banks. The adjustment will also   

92  

reflect certain other amounts including the banks  carrying costs,
compensation for ordinary dividends declared by the company during the
settlement period and interest benefits for receiving the $12.5 billion payment
in advance of the anticipated purchases by each bank of shares in the open
market during the respective settlement periods. The adjustment amount can be
settled in cash, registered shares or unregistered shares at IIG s option.
Under the ASR agreements, IIG will have a separate settlement with each of
the three banks. The first settlement occurred on September 6, 2007,
resulting in a settlement payment to the bank of $151.8 million. The second
settlement occurred on December 5, 2007, resulting in a settlement payment
to the bank of $253.1 million. The amounts were paid in cash at the election of
IIG in accordance with the provisions of the ASR agreements and were recorded
as adjustments to Stockholders  equity in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position on the settlement dates.  

The remaining
settlement is expected to occur in March 2008, and any amounts to be paid
or received by IIG under any of the settlement alternatives in connection with
the price adjustment will be recorded as an adjustment to Stockholders  equity
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on the settlement date.  

The estimated fair
value of the cash settlement and share settlement alternatives under the ASR
agreements as of December 31, 2007 would result in the payment of
approximately $33 million or 0.3 million registered shares or unregistered
shares, by IIG. In comparison, each $1 increase in the volume weighted average
share price would increase these estimates by approximately $40 million or
approximately 0.3 million registered and unregistered shares under the cash
settlement and share settlement alternatives, respectively. IIG cannot be
required to deliver more than 119 million shares if it elects the share
settlement options for the remaining settlement, regardless of the volume
weighted average share price.  

On December 3,
2007, the company announced that it planned to repurchase up to $1.0 billion of
its outstanding common stock in open market transactions by the end of February 2008.
These repurchases, originally planned for March and April of 2008,
are in addition to the $12.5 billion ASR discussed previously.  

The company issued
9,282,055 treasury shares in 2007, 3,489,803 treasury shares in 2006 and
2,594,786 treasury shares in 2005, as a result of exercises of stock options by
employees of certain recently acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. At
December 31, 2007, $1,210 million of Board authorized repurchases was
still available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in
private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. In
connection with the issuance of stock as part of the company s stock-based
compensation plans, 1,282,131 common shares at a cost of $134 million, 633,769
common shares at a cost of $52 million and 606,697 common shares at a cost of
$52 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, were remitted by employees to
the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements.
Such amounts are included in the Treasury stock balance in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders 
Equity.  

Accumulated Gains and (Losses) Not Affecting
Retained Earnings (Net of Tax)   

* Foreign currency translation adjustments are
presented gross with associated hedges shown net of tax.   

Net Change in Unrealized Gains on Marketable
Securities (Net of Tax)   

* Includes
writedowns of $6.4 million and $2.9 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.   

93  

Note N. Contingencies and
Commitments     

Contingencies   

The company is involved in a variety of claims, demands, suits,
investigations and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary
course of its business, including actions with respect to contracts,
intellectual property (IP), product liability, employment, benefits,
securities, and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a
number of different parties, including competitors, partners, clients, current
or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and
representatives of the locations in which the company does business. The
following is a summary of some of the more significant legal matters involving
the company.  

The company is a
defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake
City, Utah by The SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the case to
Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of
AT T s Unix IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair
competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to
the company s distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux.
The company has asserted counterclaims, including breach of contract, violation
of the Lanham Act, unfair competition, intentional torts, unfair and deceptive
trade practices, breach of the General Public License that governs open source
distributions, promissory estoppel and copyright infringement. In October 2005,
the company withdrew its patent counterclaims in an effort to simplify and
focus the issues in the case and to expedite their resolution. Motions for
summary judgment were heard in March 2007, and the court has not yet
issued its decision. On August 10, 2007, the court in another suit, The
SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., issued a decision and order
determining, among other things, that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare
copyrights, and obligating SCO to recognize Novell s waiver of SCO s claims
against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. At the request
of the court in SCO v. IBM, on August 31, 2007, each of the parties filed
a status report with the court concerning the effect of the August 10th
Novell ruling on the SCO v. IBM case, including the pending motions. On September 14,
2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this
case were stayed.  

On November 29,
2006, the company filed a lawsuit against Platform Solutions, Inc. (PSI)
in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. IBM
filed its amended complaint on August 17, 2007 and asserted claims for
patent infringement, trade secret misappropriation, copyright infringement,
tortious interference and breach of contract in connection with PSI s development
and marketing of a computer system that PSI says is compatible with IBM s S/390
and System z architectures. IBM also sought a declaratory judgment that its
refusal to license its patents to PSI and certain of its software for use on
PSI systems does not violate the antitrust laws. IBM seeks damages and
injunctive relief. On September 21, 2007, PSI answered the amended
complaint and asserted counterclaims against IBM for alleged monopolization and
attempted monopolization, tying, violations of New York and California statutes
proscribing unfair competition, tortious interference with the acquisition of
PSI by a third party and promissory estoppel. PSI also sought declaratory
judgments of noninfringement of IBM s patents and patent invalidity. In October 2007,
PSI filed a complaint with the European Commission claiming that the company s
alleged refusal to do business with PSI violated European competition law. The
company responded to this complaint in December. On January 11, 2008, the
court in the New York lawsuit permitted T3 Technologies, a reseller of PSI
computer systems, to intervene as a counterclaim-plaintiff, and the court also
permitted the company to file a second amended complaint adding patent
infringement claims against T3. Discovery is proceeding and the court has
ordered that the case be ready for trial after December 1, 2008.  

In May 2005,
the Louisiana Supreme Court denied the company s motion to review and reverse a
Louisiana state court s certification of a nationwide class in a case filed
against the company in 1995. The class consists of certain former employees who
left the company in 1992, and their spouses, claiming damages based on the
company s termination of an education assistance program. On July 3, 2007,
the company and the plaintiffs filed a proposed class settlement agreement with
the 19th Judicial District Court for the Parish of East Baton Rouge, Louisiana,
where the legal action was filed. On October 1, 2007, the Court gave its
final approval of the proposed settlement pursuant to which IBM paid certain
amounts to eligible individuals who took or would have taken an education
course within a specified period after departing the company. As part of the
settlement, IBM also made contributions to support engineering education for
women and minorities. Class members did not file an appeal of the Court s
order approving the settlement prior to the mid-December 2007 deadline.  

94  

In October 2003,
a purported collective action lawsuit was filed against IBM in the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California by 10 former IBM
employees alleging, on behalf of themselves and allegedly similarly situated
former employees, that the company engaged in a pattern and practice of
discriminating against employees on the basis of age when it terminated
employees, both in connection with reductions in force and individualized determinations
(Syverson v. IBM). Initially, the District Court dismissed the lawsuit on the
basis of release agreements signed by all the plaintiffs. On appeal, the Ninth
Circuit reversed the trial court s finding that the release barred these
claims, and in January 2007, after denial of IBM s petition for rehearing,
the matter was returned to the trial court for further proceedings. On October 3,
2007, the court dismissed with prejudice plaintiffs  claim for relief under the
Older Workers Benefit Protection Act, and dismissed with leave to amend
plaintiffs  claim asserting disparate impact age discrimination with respect to
individualized terminations. On November 6, 2007, plaintiffs filed a Third
Amended Complaint, amending the disparate impact claim. IBM filed its answer on
November 26, 2007.  

In July 2005,
two lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Southern
District of New York related to the company s disclosures concerning
first-quarter 2005 earnings and the expensing of equity compensation. Pursuant
to an Order from the Court dated March 28, 2006, the two lawsuits were
consolidated into a single action captioned  In re International Business
Machines Corp. Securities Litigation.  Plaintiffs filed a corrected
consolidated amended complaint dated May 19, 2006, in which they named the
company and IBM s Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer as
defendants and alleged that defendants made certain misrepresentations and
omissions in violation of Section 10(b), and Rule 10b-5 thereunder,
and Section 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. On September 20,
2006, the Court denied a Motion to Dismiss that was filed by IBM. On March 12,
2007, the plaintiffs  class was certified; class notifications were mailed on
or about May 30, 2007.  

In January 2004,
the Seoul District Prosecutors Office in South Korea announced it had brought
criminal bid-rigging charges against several companies, including IBM Korea and
LG IBM (a joint venture between IBM Korea and LG Electronics, which has since
been dissolved, effective January, 2005) and had also charged employees of some
of those entities with, among other things, bribery of certain officials of
government-controlled entities in Korea and bid rigging. IBM Korea and LG IBM
cooperated fully with authorities in these matters. A number of individuals,
including former IBM Korea and LG IBM employees, were subsequently found guilty
and sentenced. IBM Korea and LG IBM were also required to pay fines. Debarment
orders were imposed at different times, covering a period of no more than a
year from the date of issuance, which barred IBM Korea from doing business
directly with certain government-controlled entities in Korea. All debarment
orders have since expired and when they were in force did not prohibit IBM
Korea from selling products and services to business partners who sold to
government-controlled entities in Korea. In addition, the U.S. Department of
Justice and the SEC have both contacted the company in connection with this
matter.  

The company is a
defendant in a civil lawsuit brought in Tokyo District Court by Tokyo Leasing
Co., Ltd., which seeks to recover losses that it allegedly suffered after IXI
Co., Ltd. initiated civil rehabilitation (bankruptcy) proceedings in Japan and
apparently failed to pay Tokyo Leasing amounts for which Tokyo Leasing now
seeks to hold IBM and others liable. The claims in this suit include tort and
breach of contract.  

The company is a
defendant in numerous actions filed after January 1, 2008 in Supreme Court
for the State of New York, county of Broome, on behalf of hundreds of
plaintiffs. The complaints allege causes of action for negligence and
recklessness, private nuisance, and trespass. Plaintiffs in these cases seek
medical monitoring and claim damages in unspecified amounts for a variety of
personal injuries and property damages allegedly arising out of the presence of
groundwater contamination and vapor intrusion of groundwater contaminants into
certain structures in which plaintiffs reside or resided, or conducted
business, allegedly resulting from the release of chemicals into the
environment by the company at its former manufacturing and development facility
in Endicott. These complaints also seek punitive damages in an unspecified
amount.  

The company is
party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or
state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as  Superfund,  or laws similar
to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate
in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company
is also conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at
or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally
pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or
local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning
certain current or former operating sites.  

95  

The company is
also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in
various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in
Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian
authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation
matters. These matters principally relate to claims for taxes on the
importation of computer software. The total amounts related to these matters
are approximately $2.1 billion, including amounts currently in litigation and
other amounts. In addition, the company has received an income tax assessment
from Mexican authorities relating to the deductibility of certain warranty
payments. In response, the company has filed an appeal in the Mexican Federal
Fiscal court. The total potential amount related to this matter for all
applicable years is approximately $500 million. The company believes it will
prevail on these matters and that these amounts are not meaningful indicators
of liability.  

In accordance with
SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies,  (SFAS No. 5), the company
records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding
when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the
loss can be reasonably estimated. Claims and proceedings are reviewed at least
quarterly and provisions are taken or adjusted to reflect the impact and status
of settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information pertinent to a
particular matter. Any recorded liabilities for the previously discussed items,
including any changes to such liabilities for the year ended December 31,
2007, were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Based on its
experience, the company believes that the damage amounts claimed in the matters
previously referred to are not a meaningful indicator of the potential
liability. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently
uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters
previously discussed. While the company will continue to defend itself
vigorously in all such matters, it is possible that the company s business,
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in
any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters.  

Whether any
losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any such claim, suit,
investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the
company s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows
will depend on a number of variables, including the timing and amount of such
losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the
significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have on the
Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of
the particular matter which may give rise to additional factors.  

Commitments   

The company s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include
unused amounts of $3,702 million and $2,895 million at December 31, 2007
and 2006, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company s
business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the
company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection
with client purchase agreements for approximately $3,654 million and $2,496
million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The change over the
prior year is due to increased signings of long-term IT infrastructure
arrangements in which financing is committed by the company to fund a client s
future purchases from the company.  

The company has
applied the provisions of FIN 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure
Requirements for Guarantees, Including Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others, 
to its agreements that contain guarantee or indemnification clauses. These
provisions expand those required by SFAS No. 5, by requiring a guarantor
to recognize and disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood
of requiring the guarantor s performance is remote. The following is a
description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.  

The company is a
party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to
indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these
obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company,
under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless
against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to
such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental
matters, third-party performance of non-financial contractual obligations and
certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is
conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures
specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the
company to challenge the other party s claims. Further, the company s
obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or
amount, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third
parties for certain payments made by the company.  

It is not possible
to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or
similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company s obligations
and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had
a material effect on the company s business, financial condition or results of
operations.  

In addition, the
company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum
potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $23 million and
$32 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The fair value of
the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
is not material.  

96  

Note O. Taxes     

The continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic
operations is as follows:  

The components of the continuing operations provision for income taxes
by taxing jurisdiction are as follows:  

A reconciliation of the
statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the company s continuing operations
effective tax rate is as follows:  

*
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, which permitted the repatriation of
non-U.S. earnings at a reduced tax rate.   

The effect of tax law
changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a material impact
on the company s effective tax rate.  

The significant components of deferred tax assets and
liabilities that are recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position were as follows:  

Deferred Tax
Assets   

Deferred Tax
Liabilities   

97  

For income tax return purposes, the company has available foreign,
domestic and capital loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $799
million, as well as state tax credit carryforwards of approximately $480
million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least
two years or are available for 10 years or more.  

The company has
certain foreign tax loss carryforwards that have not been reflected in the
gross deferred tax asset balance. These losses, the potential tax benefit of
which is approximately $1.1 billion, have not been recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position as the company has not determined if it will
claim these losses. The company is currently evaluating whether to claim these
losses and expects to make a decision within the next 12 months.  

The valuation
allowance at December 31, 2007, principally applies to certain foreign and
state loss carryforwards, and state credit carryforwards, that, in the opinion
of management, are more likely than not to expire unutilized. However, to the
extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the
future, the reduction in the valuation allowance will reduce income tax
expense. The year-to-year increase of $262 million was primarily driven by an
additional allowance related to the recognition of certain state tax credit
carryforwards not previously recorded as deferred tax assets.  

The company
adopted the provisions of FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. The cumulative effect
of adopting FIN 48 was a decrease in tax reserves and an increase of $117
million to the January 1, 2007 Retained earnings balance. A reconciliation
of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  

The liability at December 31, 2007 of $3,094 can be reduced by $496
million of offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of
potential transfer pricing adjustments, state income taxes and timing
adjustments. The net amount of $2,598, if recognized, would favorably affect
the company s effective tax rate.  

Interest and
penalties related to income tax liabilities are included in income tax expense.
During the year ended December 31, 2007, the company recognized $85
million in interest and penalties. The company has $195 million for the payment
of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2007 and had $126
million accrued on January 1, 2007 upon adoption of FIN 48.  

During the first
quarter of 2007, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) commenced its audit of
the company s U.S. income tax returns for 2004 and 2005. The company
anticipates that this audit will be completed by the end of 2008.  

Within the next 12
months, the company believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of
unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain positions may be
significantly reduced. The potential decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits is primarily associated with the possible resolution of the company s
U.S. income tax audit for 2004 and 2005. Specific positions that may be
resolved, and that may significantly reduce the related amount of unrecognized
tax benefits, include various transfer pricing matters and claims for tax
incentives, as well as various other foreign tax matters. The company estimates
that the unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2007 could be reduced
by approximately $800 million.  

In December 2006,
the company and the IRS reached resolution of the company s U.S. income tax
audit for 2001 through 2003. The settlement of this audit resulted in a
decrease in the 2006 effective tax rate of 3 points due to the release of
previously recorded tax reserves.  

In the fourth
quarter of 2006, as a continuation of its global strategy, the company aligned,
through an intercompany transfer, certain non-U.S. intellectual property rights
with existing non-U.S. rights currently owned by one of the company s non-U.S.
manufacturing subsidiaries. This transfer resulted in a one-time increase in
the 2006 effective tax rate of 4 points.  

With limited
exception, the company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local or
non-U.S. income tax audits by taxing authorities for years through 2001. The
years subsequent to 2001 contain matters that could be subject to differing
interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the
amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the
outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate
amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are
expected to result for these years.  

98  

The company has
not provided deferred taxes on $18.8 billion of undistributed earnings of
non-U.S. subsidiaries at December 31, 2007, as it is the company s policy
to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations. However, the
company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that
it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the
deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested
earnings is not practicable.  

For additional
information on the company s effective tax rate, as well as the cash tax rate,
refer to the  Looking Forward  section of the Management Discussion on page 43.  

Note P. Research, Development and
Engineering     

RD E expense was $6,153 million in 2007, $6,107 million in 2006 and
$5,842 million in 2005.  

The company
incurred expense of $5,754 million in 2007, $5,682 million in 2006 and $5,379
million in 2005 for scientific research and the application of scientific
advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses, as
well as services and their application. Within these amounts, software-related
expense was $3,037 million, $2,842 million and $2,689 million in 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. In addition, included in the expense was a charge of $7
million and $1 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively, for acquired in-process
R D.  

Expense for
product-related engineering was $399 million, $425 million and $463 million in
2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

Note Q. 2005 Actions     

In May 2005, management announced its plans to implement a series
of restructuring actions designed to improve the company s efficiencies,
strengthen its client-facing operations and capture opportunities in
high-growth markets. The company s actions primarily included voluntary and
involuntary workforce reductions, with the majority impacting the Global
Services segments, primarily in Europe, as well as costs incurred in connection
with the vacating of leased facilities. These actions were in addition to the
company s ongoing workforce reduction and rebalancing activities that occur
each quarter. The total charges expected to be incurred in connection with all
second-quarter 2005 initiatives is approximately $1,771 million ($1,765 million
of which has been recorded cumulatively through December 31, 2007).
Approximately $1,631 million of the total charges require cash payments, of
which approximately $1,453 million have been made as of December 31, 2007
and $73 million are expected to be made over the next 12 months.  

Total pre-tax restructuring activity was as follows:  

* $1,574 million recorded in SG A expense
and $236 million recorded in Other (income) and expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings.   

   ** Consists of foreign currency translation
adjustments ($38 million), net balance sheet reclassifications ($41 million)
and reversals of previously recorded liabilities ($34 million) for changes in
the estimated cost of employee terminations and vacant space, offset by
approximately $1 million of accretion expense. The reversals were recorded
primarily in SG A expense.   

   + $391 million recorded as a current liability
in Accounts payable and accruals and $146 million as a noncurrent liability in
Other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.   

99  

* Consists of foreign currency translation
adjustments ($37 million), net balance sheet reclassifications ($2 million),
accretion expense ($7 million) and reversals of previous recorded liabilities
($35 million) for changes in the estimated cost of employee terminations and
vacant space. These reversals, net of accretion expense, were primarily
recorded in SG A expense.   

   ** $92 million recorded as a current liability
in Accounts payable and accruals and $155 million as a noncurrent liability in
Other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.   

   + Consists of foreign currency translation
adjustments ($20 million) and accretion expense ($6 million), partially offset
by adjustments to previously recorded liabilities ($13 million) for changes in
the estimated cost of employee terminations and vacant space and net balance
sheet reclassification of $2 million. The adjustments and accretion expense
were primarily recorded in SG A expense.   

   ++ $73 million recorded as a current liability
in Accounts payable and accruals and $98 million as a noncurrent liability in
Other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.   

Charges incurred for the workforce reductions consisted of
severance/termination benefits for approximately 16,000 employees (14,500 of
which were for the incremental second-quarter 2005 actions). All separations
were substantially completed by March 31, 2006. The noncurrent portion of
the liability associated with the workforce reductions relates to terminated
employees who were granted annual payments to supplement their income in
certain countries. Depending on individual country legal requirements, these
required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving
pension benefits or is deceased. Cash payments made through December 31,
2007 associated with the workforce reductions were $1,342 million.  

The vacant space
accruals are primarily for ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space,
offset by estimated sublease income, over the respective lease term of the
company s lease agreements. The length of these obligations varies by lease
with the longest extending through 2013.  

In connection with
the company s restructuring activities initiated in the second quarter of 2005,
the company recorded pre-tax impairment charges for certain real estate assets
of approximately $95 million during the year ended December 31, 2005. The
principal component of such impairment charges resulted from the sale of a
facility in Yasu-City, Japan, which closed during the third quarter of 2005. In
connection with this sale, the company recorded an impairment charge to write
the asset down to its fair value in the second quarter.  

These
restructuring activities had the following effect on the company s reportable
segments.  

* Includes $13 million and $35 million for
reversals of previously recorded charges for the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, due to changes in the estimated cost of employee
terminations and vacant space. These adjustments were primarily recorded in
SG A expense.   

100  

Note R. Earnings Per Share of Common
Stock     

The following table presents the computation of basic
and diluted earnings per share of common stock:  

* Reflects implementation of
FASB Interpretation No. 47. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on page 75
for additional information.   

Weighted-average stock
options to purchase 62,782,516 common shares in 2007, 157,942,283 common shares
in 2006 and 165,615,293 common shares in 2005 were outstanding, but were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise
price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common
shares for the full year, and therefore, the effect would have been
antidilutive.  

Note S. Rental Expense and Lease
Commitments     

Rental expense from continuing
operations, including amounts charged   to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts
previously  reserved, was $1,364 million in
2007, $1,263 million in 2006 and $1,345  million in 2005. Rental expense
in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a
straight-line basis over the   

101  

lease term.
Contingent rentals are included in the determination of rental expense as
accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum  rental commitments from continuing operations under noncancelable  leases,
amounts related to vacant space associated with infrastructure  reductions and restructuring actions taken
through 1993, and in 1999,  2002 and 2005 (previously reserved), sublease
income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect
activities primarily related to office space, as well as manufacturing
facilities.  

Note T. Stock-Based Compensation     

Stock-based compensation cost is measured at grant
date, based on the fair value of the award, and is recognized over the employee
requisite service period. See note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 70
for additional information.  

The
following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings:  

*  Includes $7 million of credits recorded during the
year ended December 31, 2005, as a result   of awards forfeited in connection with the second-quarter 2005
workforce resource actions.    

   ** Reflects the one-time
effects of the divestiture of the Personal Computing business in the second
quarter of 2005 and the divestiture of the Printing Systems business in the
second quarter of 2007.   

Total unrecognized compensation cost related to
non-vested awards  at December 31, 2007
and 2006 was $1,101 million and $1,238 million,  respectively, and is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately three
years.  

There was no
significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005.  

Incentive Awards   

Stock-based incentive awards are provided to employees
under the  terms of the company s plans (the  Plans ).
The Plans are administered  by the Executive Compensation and Management
Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ). Awards under
the Plans principally include at-the-money stock options, restricted stock
units, performance stock units, stock appreciation rights or any combination
thereof. The nonmanagement members of the IBM Board of Directors also received
stock options under a director stock option plan through December 31,
2006. The director stock option plan was terminated effective January 1,
2007.  

The amount
of shares originally authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans
was 274.1 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006. In addition, certain
incentive awards granted under previous plans, if and when those awards were
canceled, could be reissued under the company s existing Plans. As such, 46.7
million and 45.9 million additional awards were considered authorized to be
issued under the company s existing Plans as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, respectively. There were 34.8 million and 51.6 million option awards
outstanding (which were included in the total options out standing at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively) under previous  plans that, if and when canceled, would
increase the number of authorized shares. There were 131.4 million and 131.8
million unused shares available to be granted under the Plans as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Under
the company s long-standing practices and policies, all stock option awards are
approved prior to or on the date of grant. The exercise price of at-the-money
stock options is the average of the high and low market price on the date of
grant. The options approval process specifies the individual receiving the
grant, the number of options   

102  

or the value of the award, the
exercise price or formula for determin  ing the exercise price and the date of grant. All
option awards for  senior management are
approved by the Committee. All option awards  for employees other than
senior management are approved by senior  management
pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the Committee.  The grants made pursuant to these delegations
are  reviewed periodically with the Committee. Options that are awarded  as part of annual total compensation for senior
management and other  employees are made on specific cycle dates
scheduled in advance. With respect to option awards given in connection with
promotions or new hires, the company s policy requires approval of such awards
prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or the
date of hire. The exercise price of these options is the average of the high
and low market price on the date of grant.  

STOCK OPTIONS   

Stock options are awards which
allow the employee to purchase shares of the company s stock at a fixed price.
Stock options are granted at an   exercise price equal to or greater than the company s
stock price on the date of grant. These awards, which generally vest 25 percent
per year,  are fully vested four years from
the date of grant and have a contractual  term of 10 years. The company
also has a stock-based program for its  senior
executives, designed to drive improved performance and increase the ownership
executives have in the company . These executives have the opportunity to
receive at-the-money stock options by agreeing to defer a certain percentage of
their annual incentive compensation into IBM equity, where it is held for three
years or until retirement. In 2005, this program was expanded to cover all
executives of the company. Options under this program become fully vested three
years from the date of grant and have a contractual term of 10 years. The plan
element permitting deferral of annual incentive compensation into IBM equity
and receiving at-the-money stock options was terminated at December 31,
2006.  

The company
estimates the fair value of stock options using the  Black-Scholes valuation model, consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)) and SAB No.   107. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate
the fair value of stock   options
include the grant price of the award, the expected option term,  volatility
of the company s stock, the risk-free rate and the company s  dividend yield. Estimates of fair value are not
intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by
employees who receive  equity awards, and subsequent events are not
indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made
by the company.  

The fair
value of each stock option grant was estimated at the date of grant using a
Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following  table presents the weighted-average assumptions used in the valuation
and the resulting weighted-average fair value per option granted:   

* The
Option term is the number of years that the company estimates, based upon
history, that options will be outstanding prior to exercise or forfeiture.   

   ** The
company s estimates of expected volatility are principally based on daily price
changes  of the company s stock over the
expected option term, as well as the additional requirements included in the
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) and the guidance provided by SAB No. 107.    

The following table summarizes option activity under
the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:  

During the year ended December 31, 2007, the
company did not grant any stock options with exercise prices greater than the
stock price at the date of grant. During the years ended December 31, 2006
and 2005, the company granted approximately 0.5 million and 12.5 million stock
options, respectively, with exercise prices greater than the stock price at the
date of grant. These stock options had weighted-average exercise prices of $91
and $100 for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and
are included in the table above.  

103  

The shares under option at December 31, 2007 were
in the following exercise price ranges:  

* Weighted
average remaining contractual life is less than one year.   

In connection with various
acquisition transactions, there were an additional 2.1 million options
outstanding at December   31 , 2007, as a result of   the company s assumption of options granted by the
acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these options was $79
per share.   

EXERCISES OF EMPLOYEE STOCK
OPTIONS   

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $1,414 million, $727
million  and $470 million, respectively. The
total cash received from employees  as a result of employee stock option
exercises for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was
approximately $3,619 million, $1,149 million and $550 million, respectively. In
connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 were $481 million, $242
million and $148 million, respectively.  

The company
settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common
shares and, occasionally, with treasury  shares.
Total treasury shares held at December  31 , 2007 and 2006 were  approximately 672 million and 502 million
shares, respectively.  

STOCK AWARDS   

In addition to stock options, the company grants its
employees stock awards. These awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock
Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs), or
Performance Stock Units (PSUs). RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that
entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over
a two- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards is determined and
fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price. During the year
ended December 31, 2006, the company modified its equity compensation
plans to increase  awards of RSUs compared
to stock options. RSUs awarded during the  year ended December 31,
2005 were not material when compared to the value of stock options awarded
during that year.  

The
following table summarizes RSU activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006:  

104  

The remaining weighted-average contractual term of
RSUs at December 31, 2007 and 2006 is the same as the period over which
the remaining cost of the awards will be recognized, which is approximately
three years. The fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006 was $513 million and $410 million, respectively. The total fair
value of RSUs vested and released  during
the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $213 million  and $79
million. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there was $740 million and $501
million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
RSUs. The company received no cash from employees as a result of employee
vesting and release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2007 and
2006.  

PSUs are
stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee
depends on the company s performance against specified targets and typically
vest over a three-year period. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the
grant date, based on the company s stock price, and assumes that performance
targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of
stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the
probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate  number of shares issued and the related
compensation cost recognized  as expense will be based on a comparison of
the final performance  metrics to the
specified targets. The fair value of PSUs granted during  the years ended
December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $116 million and $104 million,
respectively. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the years
ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $88 million and $67 million,
respectively.  

In
connection with employee vesting and release of RSUs and PSUs,   the tax benefits
realized by the company for the years ended December   31, 2007 and 2006 were $133 million and
$59 million, respectively.  

IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan   

The company maintains an Employees Stock Purchase Plan
(ESPP). The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional
shares of IBM common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of
eligible compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received
by the employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during
which shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available
under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of
Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more
than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an
offering period.  

Prior to April 1,
2005, the ESPP was considered compensatory under the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R).
The share price paid by an employee prior to April 1, 2005 was the lesser
of 85 percent of the average market price on the first business day of each
offering period or 85 percent of the average market price on the last business
day of each pay period. Effective April 1, 2005, the company modified the
terms of the plan whereas eligible participants may purchase full or  fractional shares of IBM common stock under the
ESPP at a five-per cent discount off the average market price on the day
of the purchase.  In accordance with the
provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), effective April 1,  2005, the
ESPP is not considered compensatory.  

Employees
purchased 4.0 million, 5.8 million and 6.7 million shares under the ESPP during
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Cash
dividends declared and paid by the company on its common stock also include
cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are
paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested in the ESPP. The
company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is
included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing
basic and diluted earnings per share.  

Approximately
16.3 million, 20.3 million and 26.2 million shares were available for purchase
under the ESPP at December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.  

Note U. Retirement-Related Benefits     

Description of Plans   

IBM sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined
contribution plans that cover substantially all regular employees, a
supplemental retention plan that covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension
postretirement benefit plans primarily consisting of retiree medical and dental
benefits for eligible retirees and dependents. These benefits form an important
part of the company s total compensation and benefits program that is designed
to attract and retain highly skilled and talented employees.  

105  

U.S. PLANS   

Defined Benefit Pension Plans   

IBM Personal Pension Plan    

IBM provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time
employees hired  prior to January 1,
2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension  benefits via the IBM
Personal Pension Plan (PPP). The PPP consists of a tax-qualified (qualified)
plan and a non-tax qualified (non-qualified) plan. The qualified plan is funded
by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the
sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The non-qualified plan, which
is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified
plans.  

Benefits
provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit formulas that
vary based on the participant. Pension benefits are calculated using one of two
methods based upon specified criteria used to determine each participant s
eligibility. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that
determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other
participant-specific factors. The second method is a cash balance formula that
calculates benefits using a percentage of employees  annual salary, as well as
an interest crediting rate.  

Benefit
accruals under the PPP ceased effective January 1, 2008 for all
participants.  

U.S. Supplemental Executive
Retention Plan    

The company also sponsors a non-qualified U.S.
Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (SERP). The SERP, which is unfunded,
provides benefits to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years
of service and age at termination of employment. Effective July 1, 1999,
the company replaced the then-effective SERP with the current SERP. Some
participants in the previous SERP will still be eligible for benefits under
that prior plan if those benefits are greater than the benefits provided under
the current plan.  

Benefit
accruals under the SERP ceased effective January 1, 2008 for all
participants.  

Defined Contribution Plans   

IBM Savings Plan    

U.S. regular, full-time and
part-time employees are eligible to   participate in the IBM Savings Plan, which is a
qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code. For participants hired prior to January 1, 2005, the company
matches 50 percent of their contributions up to the first 6 percent of eligible
compensation. For participants hired or rehired on or after  January 1, 2005, who have completed one year
of service, the company  matches 100 percent of their contributions up to
the first 6 percent of eligible compensation. These participants participate in
the 401(k) Pension Program offered through the IBM Savings Plan. The
company s matching contributions vest immediately and participants are always
fully vested in their own contributions. All contributions, including the
company match, are made in cash, in accordance with the participants 
investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in
company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of the
company stock to another investment choice.  

Effective January 1,
2008, the IBM Savings Plan, including the  401(k) Pension
Program, became the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan. Under the  IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan, eligible employees will receive a dollar-for-dollar match of up to 6
percent of eligible compensation for employees 
 hired prior to January 1, 2005 and up to 5 percent of eligible
compensation for employees hired on or after January 1, 2005. In addition,
under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees will receive automatic
contributions from the company equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of employees 
eligible compensation based on their eligibility to participate in the PPP as
of December 31, 2007. If an employee was hired on or after January 1,
2005, the employee would be eligible to receive automatic contributions and
matching contributions after the completion of one year of service.  

IBM Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan    

The company also maintains an unfunded, non-qualified,
defined contribution plan, the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (EDCP),
which allows eligible executives to defer compensation and     to
receive company matching contributions under the applicable IBM  Savings
Plan formula (depending on the date of hire, as described earlier), with
respect to amounts in excess of IRS limits for qualified  plans. Amounts contributed to the EDCP as a
result of deferred com pensation, as well as company matching
contributions, are recorded as liabilities. Deferred compensation amounts may
be directed by participants into an account that replicates the return that
would have been received had the amounts been invested in similar IBM Savings
Plan investment options. The company matching contributions are directed to
participant accounts and change in value each reporting period based on changes
in the company s stock price.  

Effective January 1,
2008, the EDCP was replaced with a new non-qualified deferred compensation
plan, the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess Plan). All employees whose
eligible compensation is expected to exceed the IRS compensation limit are
eligible to participate in the Excess Plan. The purpose of the Excess Plan is
to provide benefits that would be provided under the qualified IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan if the compensation limits did not apply. The Excess Plan, like the EDCP,
will provide employees with the opportunity to save for retirement on a
tax-deferred basis.  

106  

Nonpension Postretirement Benefit
Plan   

U.S. Nonpension Postretirement
Plan    

The company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension
postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and dental benefits to
eligible U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for
eligible  U.S. retirees. Effective July 1,
1999, the company established a Future  Health Account (FHA) for
employees who were more than five years away from retirement eligibility.
Employees who were within five years of retirement eligibility are covered
under the company s prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either
the FHA or the prior retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum
cost to the company for retiree health benefits.  

Effective January 1,
2004, new hires, as of that date or later, are not eligible for company
subsidized postretirement benefits.  

NON-U.S. PLANS   

Most subsidiaries and branches outside the United
States sponsor defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover
substan tially all regular employees. The
company deposits funds under various    fiduciary-type
arrangements, purchases annuities under group  contracts or provides
reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are
typically based either on years of service and the employee s compensation
(generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on
annual credits. The range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined
benefit plans  reflects the different
economic environments within various countries.   

In
addition, certain of the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor   defined benefit nonpension
postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits to
eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance
for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most of the non-U.S. retirees
are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs.  

Plan Financial Information   

SUMMARY OF FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

The following table presents a
summary of the total retirement-related benefits net periodic cost recorded in
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings:  

* Significant
defined benefit pension plans consist of the qualified portion of the PPP in
the U.S. and the material non-U.S. Plans. See page 108 for a list of
significant plans.   

   **         Other defined benefit
pension plans consist of the non-qualified portion of the PPP in the U.S. and
the non-material non-U.S. plans.   

107  

The following table presents a summary of the total
projected benefit obligation (PBO) for defined benefit plans, accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) for nonpension postretirement benefit
plans (benefit obligations), fair value of plan assets and the associated
funded status recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position:  

* Excludes
non-material non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans; see following section for
a list of significant plans.   

   ** Funded status was recognized
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Asset amounts
as Prepaid pension assets; (Liability) amounts as Compensation and benefits
(current liability) and Retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations
(noncurrent liability).   

DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION AND
NONPENSION POST-RETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

The following represents financial information for the
company s significant retirement-related benefit plans. The significant defined
benefit pension plans consist of the qualified portion of the PPP in the U.S.
and material non-U.S. pension plans, including plans in Germany, the United
Kingdom, Japan, the Netherlands, Canada, Switzerland and Spain. The significant
nonpension postretirement benefit plan represents the U.S. nonpension
postretirement benefit plan.  

108  

The following table presents the components of net
periodic cost of the significant retirement-related benefit plans recognized in
Consolidated Statement of Earnings:  

N/A   Not applicable   

109  

The following table presents the funded status
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position for the company s
significant retirement-related benefit plans:  

The following table presents the pre-tax net loss and
prior service costs/(credits) recognized in Gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings and the changes in pre-tax net loss, prior service
costs/(credits) and transition assets recognized in Accumulated gains and
(losses) not affecting retained earnings for the company s significant
retirement-related benefit plans:  

* See
note M,  Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on page 93 for the total
net-of-tax change in the Accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained
earnings and the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity for components
of net periodic cost, including the related tax effects, recognized in Gains
and (losses) not affecting retained earnings for the company s
retirement-related benefit plans.   

110  

The following table presents the estimated net loss, estimated prior
service credits and estimated transition assets of the company s significant
retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from Accumulated gains
and (losses) not affecting retained earnings into net periodic cost/(income)
and recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in 2008:  

SIGNIFICANT DEFINED   

POSTRETIREMENT   

BENEFIT PENSION PLANS   

BENEFIT PLAN   

($ in millions)   

U.S.
  PLAN   

NON-U.S.
  PLANS   

U.S.
  PLAN   

Net loss  

$  

281  

$  

600  

$  

10  

Prior service credits  

(134  

)  

(62  

)  

Transition assets  

(1  

)  

No significant amendments of the U.S. retirement-related benefit plans
or significant non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans occurred during the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 that would have a material effect
on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

In 2006, the
company redesigned certain non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans that resulted
in a reduction to the PBO of $688 million. The majority of the reduction was
attributed to modified plans in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and the
Netherlands.  

In
December 2005, the company approved amendments to the PPP and the SERP,
which provided that participants would no longer accrue benefits under these
plans beginning January 1, 2008, resulting in a curtailment charge of $267
million that was recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the
year ended December 31, 2005.  

ASSUMPTIONS USED TO
DETERMINE PLAN FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Underlying both the measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic
cost are actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific
information such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain
assumptions, the most significant of which include estimates of discount rates,
expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest
crediting rates and mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions,
at a minimum, annually, and makes changes as necessary.  

The following table
presents the assumptions used to measure the net periodic cost and the year-end
benefit obligations for significant retirement-related benefit plans:  

* Rate of compensation increase is not
applicable to the PPP as benefit accruals ceased for all participants beginning
January 1, 2008.   

   N/A   Not applicable   

Discount Rate   

The discount rate assumptions used for the retirement-related benefit
plans accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed income
debt instruments. For the U.S. discount rate assumptions, a portfolio of
corporate bonds is constructed with maturities that match the expected timing
of the benefit obligation payments. In the non-U.S., where markets for
high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, long-term
government bonds are used as a base, to which a credit spread is added to
simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each
plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates.  

111  

For the PPP, the
changes in discount rate assumptions impacted both net periodic cost and the
PBO. For purposes of measuring the net periodic cost for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the changes in discount rate assumptions
resulted in a decrease in the 2007 net periodic cost of $92 million and an
increase in the 2006 and 2005 net periodic cost of $94 million and $90 million,
respectively. For purposes of measuring the PBO, the changes in discount rate
assumptions resulted in a decrease in the PBO of $1,185 million and $1,240
million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

For the
significant non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in discount
rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the 2007 and 2006 net periodic cost
of $30 million and $274 million, respectively. Changes in discount rate
assumptions had no material impact on the 2005 net periodic cost.  

For the U.S.
nonpension postretirement benefit plan, the changes in discount rate
assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and on the APBO at December 31, 2007
and 2006.  

Expected Long-Term Returns on Plan Assets   

The expected long-term return on plan assets assumption takes into
account long-term expectations for future returns, investment strategy and the
market-related value of plan assets. The market-related value of plan assets is
a calculated value, in accordance with accounting guidance, that recognizes
changes in the fair value of plan assets in a systematic manner over five years.
The rates of expected return are developed by the company in conjunction with
external advisors, are calculated using an arithmetic average and are tested
for reasonableness against the historical return average by asset category,
usually over a 10-year period. The use of expected long-term returns on plan
assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the
actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the
expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term
returns and therefore result in a pattern of income and expense recognition
that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the
employees. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized over
five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic cost and
also as a component of net loss or gain in the Accumulated gains and (losses)
not affecting retained earnings, which is recognized over the service lives of
the employees in the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are
based upon the obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by
accounting standards.  

For the PPP, the
expected long-term return on plan assets of 8.00 percent remained constant for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 and, consequently, had no
incremental impact on net periodic cost.  

For the material
non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the expected long-term
return on plan assets resulted in an increase in the 2007, 2006 and 2005 net
periodic cost of $50 million, $18 million and $140 million, respectively.  

For the U.S.
nonpension postretirement benefit plan, the company maintains a nominal, highly
liquid trust fund balance to ensure payments are made timely. As a result, for
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the expected long-term
return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not material.  

Rate of Compensation Increases and Mortality Rate   

The rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based
upon its long-term plans for such increases. Mortality rate assumptions are based
on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants.
Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. Changes to
defined benefit pension plans mortality rate assumptions increased the 2007 and
2006 net periodic cost approximately $80 million and $55 million, respectively,
and increased the 2007 benefit obligation approximately $790 million. Changes
to the rate of compensation increases had no material impact on the 2007 net
periodic cost and reduced the 2006 net periodic cost approximately $32 million.
Changes to the rate of compensation increases or to mortality rate assumptions
had no material impact on the 2005 net periodic cost and on benefit obligations
at December 31, 2006.  

Interest Crediting Rate   

Benefits for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a
cash balance formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest
crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic cost and the PBO. This
assumption provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that
participants will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the
following year and is based on the average from August to October of
the one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent.  

For the PPP, the
change in the interest crediting rate to 6.0 percent for the year ended
December 31, 2007 from 5.0 percent for the year ended December 31,
2006 resulted in an increase in the 2007 net periodic cost of $125 million. The
change in the interest crediting rate to 5.0 percent for the year ended
December 31, 2006 from 3.1 percent for the year ended December 31,
2005 resulted in an increase in the 2006 net periodic cost of $170 million. The
change in the interest crediting rate to 3.1 percent for the year ended
December 31, 2005 from 2.3 percent for the year ended December 31,
2004 resulted in an increase in the 2005 net periodic cost of $55 million.  

112  

Healthcare Cost Trend Rate   

For nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company
reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to
determine the healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend
rate has an insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of
the terms of the plan which limit the company s obligation to the participants.
The company assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2008 will be 8
percent. In addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will
decrease to 5 percent over the next six years. A one percentage point increase
or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have a material
effect on the 2007, 2006 and 2005 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations
as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  

PLAN ASSETS   

Defined Benefit Pension Plans   

The company s defined benefit pension plans  asset allocations at
December 31, 2007 and 2006 and target allocation for 2008, by asset
category, are as follows:  

U.S. Plan (Actual Allocations)   

* See the following discussion regarding
certain private market assets, and future funding commitments thereof, that are
not as liquid as the publicly traded securities.   

Material Non-U.S. Plans (Weighted-Average)   

The investment objectives of the PPP portfolio are designed to generate
returns that will enable the PPP to meet its future obligations. The precise
amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events,
including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans  participants.
The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current
economic environment. The PPP portfolio s investment strategy balances the
requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher yielding assets such
as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the PPP portfolio with
less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among
others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates
that could cause the plans to become underfunded, thereby increasing their dependence
on contributions from the company. Within each asset class, careful
consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors,
geographies, interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency
and other factors that affect investment returns. During 2007, the company
modified the asset allocation of the PPP portfolio primarily by reducing public
equity securities, by increasing debt securities from 33 percent to 43 percent
of total plan assets, and by increasing the duration of debt securities and
increasing the use of derivatives, including interest rate swaps in debt
securities to further mitigate the effects of future interest rate changes on
the overfunded level of the PPP. These changes were designed to reduce the potential
negative impact that equity markets or interest rates might have on the funded
status of the PPP. These changes did not impact the expected long-term return
on plan assets assumption, which remained at 8.00 percent for 2008. The effect
on expected long-term return on plan assets of increasing the duration of debt
securities substantially offset the effect of reducing public equity
securities. Derivatives are also used to hedge currency, adjust portfolio
duration and reduce specific market risks.  

The assets are
managed by professional investment firms, as well as by investment
professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by mandates and
are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration
is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer
concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive
investment strategies. Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with only
a modest percentage of the PPP portfolio invested in private market assets
consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are
less liquid than publicly traded securities. The PPP portfolio included private
market assets comprising approximately 12.0 percent and 10.2 percent of total
assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The target allocation
for private market assets in 2008 is 12.0 percent. As of December 31,
2007, the PPP portfolio had $3,621 million in commitments for future private
market investments to be made over a number of years. These commitments are
expected to be funded from plan assets. Other assets in the PPP portfolio
include commodities and non-traditional investments designed to further
diversify the returns of the PPP portfolio.  

Equity securities
include IBM common stock of $111 million, representing 0.2 percent of total PPP
plan assets at December 31, 2007 and $159 million, representing 0.3
percent of total PPP plan assets at December 31, 2006.  

113  

Outside the U.S.,
the investment objectives are similar, subject to local regulations. In some
countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income securities is
required. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically
lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by
employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the
strategies previously described. Generally, these non-U.S. funds do not invest
in illiquid assets and their use of derivatives is usually limited to currency
hedging, adjusting portfolio durations and reducing specific market risks.
There was no significant change in the investment strategies of these plans
during either 2007 or 2006.  

EXPECTED CONTRIBUTIONS   

Defined Benefit Pension Plans   

It is the company s general practice to fund amounts for pensions
sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee
benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional
amounts as it deems appropriate.  

The company
contributed approximately $447 million and $1,769 million in cash to the
material non-U.S. plans during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  

In 2008, the
company is not legally required to make any contributions to the PPP. However,
depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make
discretionary contributions to the qualified portion of the PPP during the
year.  

The Pension
Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006, is a comprehensive
reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension funding
requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides guidelines for
measuring pension plan assets and pension obligations for funding purposes and
raises tax deduction limits for contributions to retirement-related benefit
plans. The additional funding requirements by the Act apply to plan years
beginning after December 31, 2007. The adoption of the Act is not expected
to have a material effect on the company s minimum mandatory contributions to
its PPP. No mandatory contribution is required for the PPP in 2008.  

In 2008, the
company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. plans to be approximately $613
million, which will be mainly contributed to defined benefit pension plans in
Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
These 2008 contributions represent the legally mandated minimum contributions.
The company could elect to contribute more than the legally mandated amount
based on market conditions or other factors.  

Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan   

The company made a $500 million voluntary cash contribution to the U.S.
nonpension postretirement benefit plan during the year ended December 31,
2007. This advanced funding was made in addition to ongoing contributions of
$347 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, which were utilized to
pay current year benefits. The $500 million contribution will be used to fund
benefit payments in future periods.  

EXPECTED BENEFIT PAYMENTS   

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected Payments   

The following table presents the total expected benefit payments to
defined benefit pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated
based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans  PBO at
December 31, 2007 and include benefits attributable to estimated future
compensation increases.  

The 2008 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan
participants not covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans)
represent a component of Compensation and benefits, within Current liabilities,
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

114  

Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Expected
Payments   

The following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension
postretirement benefit plan participants, as well as the expected receipt of
the company s share of the Medicare subsidy described below. These payments
have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plan s
APBO at December 31, 2007.  

The 2008 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit
plan participants represents a component of Retirement and nonpension
postretirement benefit obligation in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position.  

Medicare Prescription Drug Act   

In connection with the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
Modernization Act of 2003, the company is expected to continue to receive a
federal subsidy of approximately $267 million to subsidize the prescription
drug coverage provided by the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan,
which is expected to extend until 2011. Approximately $156 million of the
subsidy will be used by the company to reduce its obligation and cost related
to the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan. The company will contribute
the remaining subsidy of $111 million to the plan in order to reduce
contributions required by the participants. The company received a total
subsidy of $46 million and $27 million during the years ended December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively, which was utilized to reduce the company
contributions for prescription drug-related coverage.  

The company has
included the impact of its portion of the subsidy in the determination of net
periodic cost and APBO for the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan at
and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The impact of the
subsidy resulted in a reduction in APBO of approximately $139 million and $154
million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The impact of the
subsidy resulted in a reduction in the 2007 and 2006 net periodic cost of $36 million
and $40 million, respectively. The subsidy had no impact on the 2005 net
periodic cost.  

Implementation of SFAS No. 158   

As highlighted in note B,  Accounting Changes,  on page 75,
effective December 31, 2006, the company adopted the provisions of SFAS
No. 158. In note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 69
and 70, the requirements of SFAS No. 158 are discussed in detail. The
following table presents the incremental effect of applying SFAS No. 158
on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2006:  

* Adjustments are primarily comprised of
previously unrecognized gains/(losses), prior service credits/(costs)) and
transition assets/(obligations).   

At December 31, 2006, the company recorded prior service
credits/(costs), net gains/(losses) and transition assets/(obligations) in the
Stockholders  equity section of the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position, net of tax, of $871 million, $(10,371) million and $2 million,
respectively.  

In addition, the
minimum pension liability of $2,348 million was eliminated upon the adoption of
SFAS No. 158.  

115  

Other Plan Information   

The following table presents information for significant defined
benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) in excess of
plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of the funded status of the
company s significant defined benefit pension plans, see table on
page 109.  

Note V. Segment Information     

The company uses business insight and its broad range of IT
capabilities to create client- and industry-specific information solutions. The
company operates primarily in a single industry using several segments that
create value by offering solutions that include, either singularly or in some
combination, services, software, hardware and financing.  

The company s
major operations comprise a Global Technology Services segment; a Global
Business Services segment; a Software segment; a predominantly hardware product
segment Systems and Technology; and a Global Financing segment. The segments
represent components of the company for which separate financial information is
available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief executive officer in
determining how to allocate the company s resources and evaluate performance.
The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base,
homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic
characteristics.  

Information about
each segment s business and the products and services that generate each
segment s revenue is located in the  Description of Business  section of the
Management Discussion on pages 19 and 20, and  Segment Details,  on
pages 23 to 27.  

In the second
quarter of 2005, the company sold its Personal Computing business which was
previously a part of the Personal Systems Group. The two remaining units of the
Personal Systems Group, Retail Store Solutions and Printing Systems, were
combined with the Systems and Technology segment. Personal Computing Division
financial results are displayed as part of the segment disclosures for 2005, in
a manner consistent with the segment disclosures.  

Segment revenue
and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended
to reflect an arm s-length transfer price. Hardware and software that is used
by the Global Technology Services segment in outsourcing engagements is
primarily sourced internally from the Systems and Technology and Software
segments. For the internal use of IT services, Global Technology Services and
Global Business Services recover cost, as well as a reasonable fee, reflecting
the arm s-length value of providing the services. The Global Services segments
enter into arm s-length leases and loans at prices equivalent to market rates
with the Global Financing segment to facilitate the acquisition of equipment
used in services engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed
annually, and reset if appropriate.  

The company
utilizes globally integrated support organizations to realize economies of
scale and efficient use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of
expense is shared by all of the segments. This expense represents sales
coverage, marketing and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury,
Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical,
shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g.,
headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared
expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the
company s management system; e.g., advertising is allocated based on the gross
profits of the segments. The unallocated corporate amounts arising from certain
divestitures, indirect infrastructure reductions, miscellaneous tax items and
the unallocated corporate expense pool are recorded in net income but are not
allocated to the segments.  

The following
tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the segments and the
Personal Computing Division consistent with the company s management system.
These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with GAAP;
e.g., employee retirement plan costs are developed using actuarial assumptions
on a country-by-country basis and allocated to the segments based on headcount.
Different amounts could result if actuarial assumptions that are unique to the
segment were used. Performance measurement is based on income before income
taxes (pre-tax income). These results are used, in part, by management, both in
evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the
segments.  

116  

Management System Segment View   

NM   Not meaningful   

RECONCILIATIONS OF IBM AS
REPORTED   

Within pre-tax income from continuing operations, unallocated corporate
amounts in 2007 include the gain from the divestiture of the printing business
and the interest expense associated with the incremental debt to support the
ASR; 2005 includes the gain from the sale of the Personal Computing business to
Lenovo, the impact of the legal settlement with Microsoft Corporation, pension
curtailment related charges and unallocated charges related to the
restructuring actions.  

Immaterial Items   

INVESTMENT IN EQUITY ALLIANCES AND EQUITY
ALLIANCES GAINS/(LOSSES)   

The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and
(losses) from these investments that are attributable to the segments did not
have a material effect on the financial position or the financial results of
the segments.  

117  

Segment Assets and Other Items   

Global Technology Services assets are primarily accounts receivable,
plant, property and equipment including those associated with the segment s
outsourcing business, goodwill, acquired intangible assets, deferred services
arrangement transition costs and maintenance parts inventory. Global Business
Services assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Software
segment assets are mainly goodwill, intangible assets and accounts receivable.
Systems and Technology assets are primarily plant, property and equipment,
manufacturing inventory and accounts receivable. The assets of the Global
Financing segment are primarily financing receivables and fixed assets under
operating leases.  

To accomplish the
efficient use of the company s space and equipment, it usually is necessary for
several segments to share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets
are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to one segment and is
not allocated to each user segment. This is consistent with the company s
management system and is reflected accordingly in the table below. In those
cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pre-tax income
and segment assets.  

Similarly, the
depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned
landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included
in the segments  pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax
income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not
specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital
expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the
landlord ownership basis of asset assignment.  

The Global
Financing segment amounts for Interest income and Interest expense reflect the
interest income and interest expense associated with the Global Financing
business, including the intercompany financing activities discussed on
page 51, as well as the income from investment in cash and marketable
securities. The explanation of the difference between Cost of Financing and
Interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 54 of the
Management Discussion.  

Management System Segment View   

* Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation   

118  

RECONCILIATIONS OF IBM AS REPORTED   

* Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation.   

Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services   

For the Software, Global Business Services, Global Financing and
Personal Computing Division segments, the data on page 117 represents the
revenue contributions from the products or services that are contained in the
segments and that are basically similar in nature. The following table provides
external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the Systems
and Technology and Global Technology Services segments. Systems and Technology
segment s Technology original equipment manufacturer (OEM) hardware comprises
revenue primarily from the sale of semiconductors. Technology Services comprise
Systems and Technology s circuit design business for its OEM clients, as well
as the component design services, strategic outsourcing of clients  design team
work and technology and manufacturing consulting services associated with the
Engineering   Technology Services Division. Systems and Technology
segment s Storage comprises revenue from disk storage systems and tape
subsystems. The following table is presented on a continuing operations basis.  

* Reclassified to conform with 2007
presentation.   

Major Clients   

No single client represents 10 percent or more of the company s total
revenue.  

Geographic Information   

The following provides information for those countries that are 10
percent or more of the specific category.  

REVENUE*   

* Revenues are attributed to countries based
on location of client.   

NET PLANT, PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT   

Note W. Subsequent Events     

On January 29, 2008, the company announced that the Board of
Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.40 per common share. The dividend
is payable March 10, 2008 to shareholders of record on February 8,
2008.  

On
January 29, 2008, IBM International Group Capital LLC, an indirect, wholly
owned subsidiary of the company, issued $3.5 billion of 18-month floating rate
notes. The proceeds will be utilized to reduce the 364-day bridge loan
associated with the 2007 ASR. (See pages 31 and 32 for additional
information.)  

On January 31,
2008, the company completed the acquisition of Cognos, Inc., a publicly
held company, for approximately $5.0 billion in cash.  

On
February 26, 2008, the company announced that the Board of Directors
authorized $15 billion in additional funds for use in the company s common
stock repurchase program.  

119  

Five-year Comparison of Selected Financial Data     

  International
Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

* Reflects
implementation of FASB Interpretation No. 47. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on page 75 for additional information.   

120  

Selected Quarterly Data     

  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

* Earnings Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is
computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that
quarter while EPS for the full year is computed using the weighted-average
number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four
quarter s EPS does not equal the full-year EPS.   

   ** The stock prices reflect the high and low
prices for IBM s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for
the last two years.   

121  

Performance
Graphs     

  International Business
Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

Comparison
of One- Five- and Ten-year Cumulative Total Return for IBM,       S P 500 Stock Index and
S P Information Technology Index  

The
following graphs compare the one-, five- and ten-year cumulative total returns
for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain Standard  
Poor s (S P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the
S P 500 Stock Index, the SEC s proxy rules require the use of that
index for the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the second index
used for comparison may be a published industry or line-of-business index.  

The S P Information Technology Index is such an index.
IBM is also included in this index.  

Each graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the
initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the
same date in each of the S P indices. The comparisons assumes that all
dividends are reinvested.  

One-year   

Five-year   

Ten-year   

122  

Board of
Directors and Senior Executive Officers     

  International Business
Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

Board of Directors   

Cathleen Black   

Shirley Ann Jackson   

Samuel J. Palmisano   

President  

President  

Chairman, President and  

Hearst Magazines  

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  

Chief Executive Officer  

IBM  

William R. Brody   

Minoru Makihara*   

Joan E. Spero   

President  

Senior Corporate Advisor and  

President  

The Johns Hopkins University  

former Chairman  

Doris Duke Charitable Foundation  

Mitsubishi Corporation  

Kenneth I. Chenault   

Lucio A. Noto   

Sidney Taurel   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Managing Partner  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

American Express Company  

Midstream Partners LLC  

Eli Lilly and Company  

Juergen Dormann*   

James W. Owens   

Lorenzo H. Zambrano   

Chairman  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

Chairman and  

Adecco Management   Consulting S.A.  

Caterpillar Inc.  

Chief Executive Officer  

CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.  

Michael L. Eskew   

Retired Chairman and  

Chief Executive Officer  

United Parcel Service, Inc.  

* Term on the Board ends on April 29,
2008   

Senior Executive
Officers   

Rodney
  C. Adkins   

John
  E. Kelly III   

Virginia
  M. Rometty   

Senior Vice President  

Senior Vice President
  and  

Senior Vice President  

Development and
  Manufacturing  

Research and
  Intellectual Property  

Global Business
  Services  

Systems and Technology
  Group  

Michael
  E. Daniels   

Mark
  Loughridge   

Linda
  S. Sanford   

Senior Vice President  

Senior Vice President
  and  

Senior Vice President  

Global Technology
  Services  

Chief Financial Officer  

Enterprise On Demand
  Transformation  

Nicholas
  M. Donofrio   

J.
  Randall MacDonald   

Martin
  J. Schroeter   

Executive Vice
  President  

Senior Vice President  

Treasurer  

Innovation and
  Technology  

Human Resources  

Douglas
  T. Elix   

Steven
  A. Mills   

Timothy
  S. Shaughnessy   

Senior Vice President
  and Group Executive  

Senior Vice President
  and Group Executive  

Vice President and
  Controller  

Sales and Distribution  

Software Group  

Jesse
  J. Greene, Jr.   

Robert
  W. Moffat, Jr.   

Robert
  C. Weber   

Vice President  

Senior Vice President  

Senior Vice President  

Financial Management  

Integrated Operations  

Legal and Regulatory
  Affairs, and  

General Counsel  

J.
  Bruce Harreld   

Daniel
  E. O Donnell   

William
  M. Zeitler   

Senior Vice President  

Vice President,  

Senior Vice President
  and  

Marketing and Strategy  

Assistant General
  Counsel and Secretary  

Group Executive  

Systems and Technology
  Group  

Jon C.
  Iwata   

Samuel
  J. Palmisano   

Senior Vice President  

Chairman, President and  

Communications  

Chief Executive Officer  

123  

Stockholder
Information     

  International Business
Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

IBM Stockholder Services   

Stockholders with questions about their accounts should contact:  

Computershare Trust Company, N.A.  

  P.O. Box 43072  

  Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3072  

  (888) IBM-6700  

Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico
should call (781) 575-2727.  

Stockholders can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via
e-mail at: ibm@computershare.com  

Hearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications
device (TDD) can communicate directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A.,
by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States,
Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2694.  

IBM on the Internet   

Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found via the IBM home page on
the Internet (http://www.ibm.com). Financial results, news on IBM products,
services and other activities can also be found via that address.  

Stockholders of record can receive online account information and
answers to frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts via the
Internet (http://www.ibm.com/investor).  

Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual
Reports and Proxy Statements online through the Internet at this site.  

IBM files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC.
Certifications by IBM s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are
included as exhibits to the company s SEC reports (including the company s Form 10-K
filed in 2008), and Certifications by IBM s Chief Executive Officer are
included in the company s filings with the New York Stock Exchange and the
Chicago Stock Exchange (including filings in 2007).  

IBM s Website (http://www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of
information about IBM, including the company s annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all
amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC
(http://www.ibm.com/investor). These materials are available free of charge on
or through our website.  

The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the
SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC
20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public
Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an
Internet site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC.  

IBM Investor Services Program   

The Investor Services Program brochure outlines a number of services
provided for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the
reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock
certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure.
Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should
call (781) 575-2727.  

Investors with other requests may write to:  

IBM Stockholder Relations  

  New Orchard Road  

  Armonk, New York 10504  

IBM Stock   

IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago
Stock Exchange, and outside the United States.  

Annual Meeting   

The IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 29,
2008, at 10 a.m. in the Ballroom of the Charlotte Convention Center, 501
South College Street, Charlotte, North Carolina.  

Stockholder Communications   

Stockholders in the United States and Canada can get quarterly
financial results, listen to a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks and hear
voting results from the meeting by calling (800) IBM-7800. Callers can also
request printed copies of the information via mail or fax. Stockholders
residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (402)
573-9861.  

Literature for IBM Stockholders   

The following literature on IBM is available without charge from:  

Computershare Trust Company, N.A.  

  P.O. Box 43072  

  Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3072  

  (888) IBM-6700  

Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico
should call (781) 575-2727.  

The Form 10-K Annual Report and Form 10-Q Quarterly Reports
to the SEC provide additional information on IBM s business. The 10-K report is
released by the  end  of February; 10-Q reports are released by the end of
April, July, and October.  

An audio cassette recording of the 2007 Annual Report will be available
for sight-impaired stockholders in June.  

Global Citizenship  is the theme of the 2007 IBM Corporate
Responsibility Report detailing the company s proactive approach to citizenship
as a globally integrated enterprise. The 48-page report presents the results of
the company s innovative societal partnerships and its strategy to address the
challenges and opportunities in an increasingly global and networked economy.
The report also includes an IBM Key Performance Indicators Chart that compiles
corporate responsibility metrics, including energy conservation, recycling,
employee volunteerism and supply chain among 16 key indices. It details our
results and strategies delivered by more than 350,000 employees across 170
countries worldwide and outlines our progressive approach to community
engagement, utilizing our innovative technologies applied against a range of
societal challenges from education to health care, disaster relief to
environmental sustainability. Further information is also available on IBM's
corporate responsibility reporting Website: www.ibm.com/ibm/responsibility.  

General Information   

For answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United
States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto
Rico, call (404) 238-1234.  

Corporate Offices   

International Business Machines Corporation  

  New Orchard Road  

  Armonk, New York 10504  

  (914) 499-1900  

The IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable.  

BladeCenter, Blue Gene, Domino, FileNet, IBM, Micromuse, Notes, Lotus,
Lotus Notes, POWER5+, POWER6, Rational, S/390, System i, System p, System x,
System z, Tivoli, WebSphere, are trademarks or registered trademarks of
International Business Machines Corporation or its wholly owned subsidiaries.
Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc. Linux is a trademark of Linus
Torvalds. Microsoft is a trademarks of Microsoft Corporation in the United
States, other countries, or both. UNIX is a registered trademark of The Open
Group in the United States and other countries. Other company, product and
service names may be trademarks or service marks of others.  

Printed in the U.S.A.            G507-0501-15  

124  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 5
 a2181836zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 21            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES            

  Subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2007   

(A)    Minor
percentage held by other IBM shareholders subject to repurchase option.    

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 21   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 6
 a2181836zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-77235, 33-29022,
33-33458, 33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815, 333-01411, 33-52931,
33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305, 333-41813, 333-44981,
333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751, 333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424, 333-33692, 333-36510,
333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327 and 333-148964) and the Registration Statements on
Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 33-50537, 33-65119, 33-65119(1), 333-03763, 333-21073,
333-27669, 333-40669, 333-70521, 333-32690, 333-102603, 333-37034, 333-101034, 333-145104 and 333-145104-01) of
International Business Machines Corporation of our report dated February 26, 2008, relating to the financial statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated
February 26, 2008, relating to the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 
New York, New York 
February 26, 2008   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 7
 a2181836zex-24_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 24.1            

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF SAMUEL J. PALMISANO           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on
Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell, and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26 th  day of February 2008.   

/s/ Samuel J. Palmisano    Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman of the Board, President 
and Chief Executive Officer  

1  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF MARK LOUGHRIDGE           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New
York corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K,
hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J. Palmisano, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Mark Loughridge    Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President and 
Chief Financial Officer  

2  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF TIMOTHY S. SHAUGHNESSY           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Vice President and Controller of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation,
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby
constitutes and appoints Samuel J. Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Timothy S. Shaughnessy    Timothy S. Shaughnessy 
Vice President and Controller  

3  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Cathleen Black    Director  

4  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ William R. Brody    Director  

5  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J. Palmisano, Mark
Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the
undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K
Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault    Director  

6  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Juergen Dormann    Director  

7  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Michael L. Eskew    Director  

8  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Shirley Ann Jackson    Director  

9  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Minoru Makihara    Director  

10  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Lucio A. Noto    Director  

11  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ James W. Owens    Director  

12  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J. Palmisano, Mark
Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the
undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K
Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Joan E. Spero    Director  

13  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Sidney Taurel    Director  

14  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR           

          KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2007 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Samuel J.
Palmisano, Mark Loughridge, Robert C. Weber, Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Daniel E. O'Donnell and Andrew Bonzani as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said
10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.   

          IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 26th day of February 2008.   

/s/ Lorenzo H. Zambrano    Director  

15  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 24.1   
 
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF SAMUEL J. PALMISANO   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF MARK LOUGHRIDGE   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF TIMOTHY S. SHAUGHNESSY   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 8
 a2181836zex-24_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 24.2            

RESOLUTION REGARDING FILING FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT           

          RESOLVED, that the Form 10-K Annual Report for the year 2007 be, and hereby is, approved and that the Officers of the Corporation be, and they
hereby are, authorized and empowered to execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K and to make such additions, supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion may be necessary
or desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 24.2   
 
  RESOLUTION REGARDING FILING FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT   

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 a2181836zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS 
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Samuel J. Palmisano, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Date:
February 26, 2008   

/s/    SAMUEL J. PALMISANO            Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 a2181836zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

   CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Mark Loughridge, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f))
for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to
the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and
procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and
the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.    

Date:
February 26, 2008   

/s/    MARK LOUGHRIDGE            Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President 
Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 a2181836zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In
connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2007, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Samuel J. Palmisano, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/    SAMUEL J. PALMISANO            Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
February 26, 2008  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 a2181836zex-32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2007, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/    MARK LOUGHRIDGE            Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
February 26, 2008  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

