<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090224_10-K_edgar_data_51143_0001047469-09-001737_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>6718291</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>704433</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>58831</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4414638</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>170</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-09-001737.hdr.sgml : 20090224
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090224142600
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-09-001737
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		20
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090224
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090224

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000051143
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT [3570]
		IRS NUMBER:				130871985
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02360
		FILM NUMBER:		09630468

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD ROAD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9144991900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD RD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 DWCz5o1M6+3FNPdxxeg/+uJQnWhJT9HJ0OJA89c88M82vwKFBat72KOVHlRykjAv
 EqsnGdboFDI7A6Mna3QjQA==

 0001047469-09-001737.txt : 20090224

10-K
 1
 a2189817z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K       ANNUAL REPORT 
pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2008     

    1-2360      (Commission file number)   

   INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

914-499-1900      (Registrant's telephone number)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in
Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in
Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of "accelerated filer," "large accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-Accelerated filer      

Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act
Rule 12b-2). Yes        No       

            The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of
the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter was $160.6 billion.   

Documents incorporated by reference:   

            Portions of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2008 into Parts I, II
and IV of Form 10-K.   

            Portions of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009 are incorporated by reference into Part III of Form 10-K.   

PART I            

    Item 1. Business:     

          International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as
the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of
New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological invention, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 80
years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates business value for clients and solves business problems
through integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client's operational costs or by enabling
new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing.   

    STRATEGY     

          In IBM's view, today's networked economy has created a global business landscape and a mandate for business change. It also opens the
opportunity to upgrade the efficiency and effectiveness of the global infrastructure through embedded information technology what IBM calls a "smarter planet." Smart airports, smart
highways, smart supply chains are all possible. IBM is working with clients and governments around the world to explore these opportunities and implement new ideas.   

Integrated
global economies have opened markets of new opportunity and new sources of skills. The Internet has enabled communication and collaboration across the world and brought with
it a new computing model premised on continuous global connection. In that landscape, companies can distribute work and technology anywhere in the world. IBM continues to adjust its footprint toward
emerging geographies, tapping their higher growth, providing the technology infrastructure they need and taking advantage of the talent pools they provide to better service the company's clients.   

          At
the same time, the current economic crisis increases the pressure on both businesses and governments around the world to adapt. The needs for additional transparency, security and
efficiencies are clear.   

          Given
these opportunities and economic challenges, IBM is working with its clients to develop new business designs and technical architectures that allow their businesses the flexibility
required to compete in this new landscape. IBM's strategy addresses this new era and delivers value to its clients through three strategic priorities:   

     Focus on Open Technologies and High-Value Solutions      

          A new computing model has emerged, replacing the PC-based, client/server approach. This new model is networked, modular, open and
represents a fundamental shift in the technology requirements of the company's clients. IBM is well positioned to provide its enterprise clients the open technologies and high-value
solutions they will need to compete.    

IBM is leveraging its leadership position in the convergence of software and services, in service oriented architecture
(SOA), in virtualization, business intelligence and analytics, in open and modular information technology (IT) continuing its shift from commoditizing segments to higher value segments
with better profit opportunity.     
           The company continues to be a leading force in open source solutions to enable its clients to achieve higher levels of
interoperability, cost efficiency and quality.    
 
  1  

Deliver Integration and Innovation to Clients      

          Changes in the market have caused IBM's clients to seek flexibility and innovation in everything from technical architecture to their
business model. In response, IBM is focused on delivering integration and innovation to its clients offering them technologies and services that support real value creation.   

IBM has a long heritage of transforming the business operations of large enterprises and has earned the trust to be their
innovation partner and global integrator.     
           The company has an extensive set of global assets and capabilities it is applying to improve services profitability, both
for its clients and for itself.    

Become the Premier Globally Integrated Enterprise      

          As global networks and technology capabilities change business economics, legacy business designs can quickly become noncompetitive.
IBM believes a globally-integrated enterprise, designed for this new landscape, can compete effectively and will benefit from the opportunities offered.    

To reshape its business for the global economy, IBM has replaced vertical hierarchies with horizontally integrated teams.    
           Across the business, the company has made significant investments in emerging markets, taking core processes and functions
that were once managed regionally and shifting them to a globally integrated model.    

Looking
forward, IBM is confident it understands the economic shift of globalization, the evolution of the new computing model and the powerful role of innovation in this new landscape.
Its unique capabilities are well adapted to help the company's clients innovate and compete effectively in this new environment.   

BUSINESS MODEL     

          The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping clients succeed in delivering business value by becoming
more innovative, efficient and competitive through the use of business insight and IT solutions; and, providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over
time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have the best long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.   

          The
company's global capabilities include services, software, hardware, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide
business insight and solutions for the company's clients.   

          The
business model is flexible, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company has divested commoditizing businesses like personal computers and hard
disk drives, and strengthened its position through strategic investments and acquisitions in higher value segments like business intelligence and analytics, virtualization and green solutions. In
addition, the company has transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and participation in the world's fastest growing
markets. As a result, the company is a higher performing enterprise today than it was several years ago.   

The
business model, supported by the company's long-term financial model, has enabled the company to deliver consistently strong earnings, cash flows and returns on invested
capital in changing economic environments.   

    BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES     

          The company's major operations are comprised of: a Global Technology Services segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Software
segment; a Systems and Technology segment; and a Global Financing segment.   

  2  

Global Services    is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to clients. While
solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and hardware, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Within Global Services there are two reportable segments:
Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.   

   Global Technology Services (GTS)    primarily provides IT infrastructure services and business process services, delivering business value through the
company's global scale, standardization and automation.   

     GTS Capabilities      

             Strategic Outsourcing Services.    Comprehensive IT services integrated with business insight working with clients to reduce costs and
improve productivity through the outsourcing of processes and operations.   

Integrated Technology Services.    Services offerings that help clients access, manage and support their technology infrastructures, through
a combination of skilled resources, software and IBM's knowledge of business processes. The portfolio includes Service Product Lines which complement hardware from Systems and Technology and software
offerings from the Software business.   

             Business Transformation Outsourcing.    A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and Business Process Outsourcing through
transformational offerings that deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure.   

Maintenance.    A number of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the availability of
clients' IT infrastructure.   

   Global Business Services (GBS)    primarily provides professional services and application outsourcing services, delivering business value and innovation
to clients through solutions which leverage industry-and business-process expertise.   

GBS Capabilities      

             Consulting and Systems Integration.    Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for client relationship management, financial
management, human-capital management, business strategy and change, and supply-chain management.   

             Application Management Services.    Application development, management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as
custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through the company's global resource capabilities, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application development.   

Software    consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and
applications across a standard software platform. IBM middleware is designed to open standards which allows the efficient integration of disparate client applications that may have been built
internally, or provided by packaged software vendors or system integrators. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately two-thirds of external software
segment revenue is annuity-based, coming from recurring license charges and ongoing subscription and support from one-time charge (OTC) arrangements. The remaining one-third of
external revenue relates to OTC arrangements, in which the client pays one up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, arrangements for the sale of OTC software include one year
of maintenance. The client can also purchase ongoing maintenance after the first year, which includes product upgrades and technical support.   

  3  

Software Capabilities      

             WebSphere Software.    Management of a wide variety of business processes using open standards to interconnect applications, data and
operating systems. Provides the foundation for Web-enabled applications and is a key product set in deploying a SOA.   

             Information Management Software.    Advanced database, content management, information integration and business intelligence software that
helps companies integrate, manage and gain value from their business information.   

Tivoli Software.    Software for infrastructure management, including security and storage management that will help organizations better
manage their IT infrastructure to more effectively deliver IT services.   

             Lotus Software.    Collaboration, messaging and social networking software that enables businesses to communicate, collaborate and increase
productivity.   

             Rational Software.    Software tools that help clients manage their software development processes and capabilities. With the acquisition of
Telelogic in 2008, Rational software supports software development for both IT solutions and embedded system solutions.   

             Operating Systems.    Software that manages the fundamental processes that make computers run.   

   Systems and Technology    provides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately
55 percent of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user
clients. In addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology and products, packaging solutions and engineering technology services to clients and for IBM's own advanced
technology needs.   

     Systems and Technology Capabilities      

             Servers.    IBM systems, which are typically connected to a network and provide the required infrastructure for business. These systems use
both IBM and non-IBM operating systems, and all IBM servers can also run Linux, a key open source operating system. (System z, legacy System i, converged System p and System x).   

Storage.    Information infrastructure products and solutions, which address critical client requirements for information retention and
archiving, availability and virtualization, and security and compliance. The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and software.   

             Microelectronics.    Semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and for sale to external clients (OEM).   

             Retail Store Solutions.    Point-of-sale retail systems (network connected cash registers) as well as solutions which
connect them to other store systems.   

   Global Financing    is described on pages 53 through 57 in IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders.   

     Global Financing Capabilities      

             Client Financing.    Lease and loan financing to end user and internal clients for terms generally between two and seven years.   

             Commercial Financing.    Short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products.   

Remarketing.    The sale and lease of used equipment (primarily sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions) to new or existing
clients.   

    IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS     

          The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:   

Sales and Distribution    
 
  4  

Research, Development and Intellectual Property     
           Integrated Supply Chain     
           Integrated Technology Delivery    
           Business Process Delivery    

Sales and Distribution      

          IBM has a significant global presence, operating in over 170 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution of
revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units,
client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients'
business performance. These teams deliver value by understanding the clients' business and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to
develop and implement solutions.   

          By
combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by
leveraging industry skills with marketing, ibm.com and local Business Partner resources.   

In
2008, the company implemented a new growth markets organization to increase its focus on the emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China and the additional opportunities
around the world that have market growth rates greater than the global average countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. The company's major
markets include the United States, Canada, the U.K., France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Cyprus, Norway,
Israel, Spain, the Bahamas and the Caribbean region.   

          The
majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six
sectors:   

Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance     
           Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences     
           Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics     
           Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation     
           Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities     
           Small and Medium Business: Mainly companies with less than 1,000 employees    

Research, Development and Intellectual Property      

          IBM's research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually spends approximately
$6 billion for R D, focusing its investments on high-growth, high-value opportunities. As a result of innovations in these and other areas, IBM was once again awarded
more U.S. patents in 2008 than any other company, the first company to achieve over 4,000 patents in a year. The company will continue to actively seek intellectual property protection for its
innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual property leadership and promote innovation.   

  5  

In
addition to producing world-class hardware and software products, IBM innovations are also a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company's clients through its services
businesses. The company's investments in R D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used
exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary intellectual property
rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or
is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms and
conditions.   

     Integrated Supply Chain      

          Consistent with the company's work with clients to transform their supply chains for greater efficiency and responsiveness to global
market conditions, the company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain, which provides a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM
leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end
supply-chain processes, from procurement to logistics.   

          IBM
spends approximately $38 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. The supply, manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment
operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time, improved response to marketplace opportunities and external risks and converted fixed costs to variable costs.
Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations, sales force productivity and processes, and these actions have improved client satisfaction.   

     Integrated Technology Delivery      

          Integrated Technology Delivery (ITD) combines all of the worldwide service delivery capabilities for Strategic Outsourcing with strong
local and regional management teams supported by a set of global competencies. ITD leverages the company's global scale and advanced technology to deliver standardized solutions that are automated,
repeatable and globally integrated. Clients gain cost advantages, access to industry-leading skills and IBM's scale and overall flexibility. ITD manages the world's largest privately-owned IT
infrastructure with employees in over 40 countries supporting over 450 data centers.   

     Business Process Delivery      

          Business Process Delivery (BPD) provides highly efficient, world-class delivery capabilities in IBM's business process delivery
operations, which include Business Transformation Outsourcing, Business Process Outsourcing and Business Process Services. BPD has employees and delivery centers in over 40 countries worldwide.   

COMPETITION     

          The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, doing business in over 170 countries. The company participates in the highly
competitive information technology (IT) industry, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall,
across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide.   

          The
markets for each of the company's business segments is characterized by aggressive competition among all types of competitors. Across its business, the company's principal methods of   

  6  

competition
are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to
clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership in the IT industry, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. Over the past several years, the company has been
executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through internal investments and strategic
acquisitions. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments.   

          A
summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:   

     Global Services:      

          The company's services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in
strategic outsourcing, business transformation outsourcing, integrated technology services and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services.
The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, the ability to add value and the
time-to-value, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the
services business include its global reach and scale, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise and infrastructure management, an ability to
deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. GTS competes with a variety of
competitors worldwide across its principal market segments: the global, broad based competitors are Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), Accenture and Computer
Sciences Corporation. Indian service providers, including Satyam Computer Services Ltd. and Wipro Technologies (Wipro), are moving to offer managed infrastructure services, targeting similar customer
segments to GTS. The principal competitors for GBS are Accenture, Infosys Consulting and Wipro.   

     Software:      

          The enterprise management software market is highly competitive and the key competitive factors in this segment include: functionality,
ease of use, scalability, compliance with open standards and total cost of ownership. The company's leadership in these areas provides it with competitive advantages. The company's software business
includes middleware, operating systems and related software provided to all industry segments worldwide. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and it also covers both mainframe and
distributed computing environments. The depth and breadth of the company's software offerings, coupled with its global sales and technical support infrastructure differentiate the company's software
business from its competitors. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's
principal competitors in this segment include Oracle Corporation, Microsoft Corporation, EMC and CA, Inc. In addition, the company competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific
geographic or product markets worldwide.   

     Systems and Technology:      

          The enterprise server and storage market is highly competitive and is characterized by ongoing technology innovation, with competition
focused on value, function and reliability, and new entrants leveraging technology to compete against traditional offerings. The company's principal competitors include HP, Dell, Inc. (Dell),
Sun Microsystems and EMC Corporation. The company's leadership in virtualization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage
the entire system, from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency and lower cost, provide the company with competitive   

  7  

advantages
in this segment. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership.   

     Global Financing:      

          The company's Global Financing business provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used
equipment. In 2008, the global financial credit crisis impacted both the client and commercial financing markets. The supply of credit diminished and financial institutions faced increases in loan
losses, higher borrowing costs and liquidity challenges. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key
competitive factors include price, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of
companies: other captive financing companies such as HP and Dell, non-captive companies such as General Electric Company and CIT Group, Inc. and banks or financial institutions. In
the remarketing segment, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market.   

Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements     

          Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered
to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of
future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates,"
"intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In
accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 10 through 13 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should
carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from
historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference.   

          The
following information is included in IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:   

          Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services pages 116 to 119.   

          Financial
information by geographic areas page 119.   

          Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R D activities page 101.   

Financial
information regarding environmental activities pages 94 and 95.   

          The
number of persons employed by the registrant pages 52 and 53.   

          The
management discussion overview pages 19 and 20.   

          Available
information page 125.   

Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.   

  8  

Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 24, 2009):     

(1)    Member
of the Board of Directors.    

          All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the
By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Robert C. Weber, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.   

Mr. Weber
was a partner at Jones Day, an international law firm, until joining IBM in 2006. He was with Jones Day for almost 30 years, and his career included counseling
corporations, individuals and boards of directors, as well as extensive experience in corporate derivative litigation, federal and state enforcement actions and commercial litigation.   

  9  

Item 1A. Risk Factors:            

             Downturn in Economic Environment and Corporate IT Spending Budgets could impact the Company's Business:    If overall demand for systems,
software and services decreases, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in corporate buying patterns, the company's revenue and profit could be impacted.   

             The Company may not meet its Growth and Productivity Objectives under its Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration
Initiatives:    On an ongoing basis, IBM seeks to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and
functions to remain competitive and to enable scaling of resources in both emerging and
more established geographical markets. These efforts may not yield their intended gains in overall efficiency and enablement of rapid scaling, which may impact the company's ability to meet its growth
and productivity objectives.   

             Failure of Innovation Initiatives could impact the Long-Term Success of the Company:    IBM has been moving away from
commoditized categories of the IT industry and into areas in which it can differentiate itself through innovation and by leveraging its investments in R D. If IBM is unable to continue its
cutting-edge innovation in the highly competitive IT industry, the company could fail in its ongoing efforts to maintain and increase its market share and its profit margins. In addition,
IBM has one of the strongest brand names in the world, and its brand and overall reputation could be negatively impacted by many factors, including if the company does not continue to be recognized
for its industry-leading technology and solutions. If the company's brand image is tarnished by negative perceptions, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impacted.   

             Risks from Investing in Growth Opportunities could impact the Company's Business:    The company continues to invest significantly in growth
opportunities, including higher-value segments of enterprise computing and dozens of emerging countries, including Brazil, Russia, India and China, to drive revenue growth and market share gains.
Client adoption rates and viable economic models are uncertain in the high-value and rapidly-growing segments. In addition, as the company expands to capture emerging growth opportunities,
it needs to rapidly secure the appropriate mix of trained, skilled and experienced personnel. In emerging growth countries, the developing nature presents potential political, social and economic
risks from inadequate infrastructure, creditworthiness of customers and business partners, labor disruption and corruption, which could impact the company's ability to meet its growth objectives and
to deliver to its clients around the world.   

             IBM's Intellectual Property Portfolio may not prevent Competitive Offerings, and IBM may not be able to Obtain Necessary Licenses:    The
company's patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to the company's, nor can there be any
assurance that the resources invested by the company to protect its intellectual property will be sufficient or that the company's intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter
misappropriation or improper use of the company's technology. In addition, the company may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including
non-practicing entities. Also, there can be no assurances that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the future.   

             Breaches of Data Protection could impact the Company's Business:    The company's products and services, as well as its internal systems and
processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches in security
could expose the company, its customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for the company, as well as the
loss of existing or potential customers and damage to the company's brand and reputation. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be
significant.   

  10  

The Company's Revenues for Particular Periods are Difficult to Predict:    IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the introduction of
new products and services, the length of the sales cycles, the structure of products and services contracts and the seasonality of technology purchases. As a result, the company's results are
difficult to predict. These factors historically have resulted in lower revenue in the first quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. In addition, the high volume of products ordered
at the end of each quarter, especially at the end of the fourth quarter, may affect IBM's ability to successfully ship all orders before the end of the quarter.   

             Due to the Company's Global Presence, its Business and Operations could be impacted by Local Legal, Economic, Political and Health
Conditions:    The company is a globally integrated entity, operating in over 170 countries worldwide and deriving more than sixty percent of its revenues from sales outside the
United States. Changes in the laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates, or inadequate enforcement of such laws or policies, could affect the company's business in that country
and the company's overall results of operations. The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic and political changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including
recessions, inflation and currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and local currency. In addition, any widespread outbreak of an illness, pandemic or other local or global health issue, or any
terrorist activities, could adversely affect customer demand and the company's operations and its ability to source and deliver products and services to its customers.   

             The Company could incur Substantial Costs for Environmental Matters:    The company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the U.S. Superfund law. The company could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental
laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and competitive
position.   

             Tax Matters could impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition:    The company is subject to income taxes in both the
United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. IBM's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to,
income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations and
financial condition in future periods. In addition, IBM is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The company
regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from
these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the company's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.   

             The Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition could be negatively impacted by its U.S. and non-U.S. Pension
Plans:    Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets may have an unfavorable impact on the value of the company's pension trust assets and its future
estimated pension liabilities. As a result, the company's financial results in any period could be negatively impacted. In addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the company
could be required to provide incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which could negatively impact the company's financial flexibility. IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders
includes information about potential impacts from pension funding and the use of certain assumptions regarding pension matters.   

  11  

Ineffective Internal Controls could impact the Company's Business and Operating Results:    The company's internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective
internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal
controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the company's business and operating results could
be harmed and the company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations.   

             The Company's Use of Accounting Estimates involves Judgment and could impact the Company's Financial Results:    The company's most critical
accounting estimates are described in the Management Discussion in IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, under "Critical Accounting Estimates." In addition, as discussed in note O,
"Contingencies and Commitments" in IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, the company makes certain estimates under the provisions of SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," including
decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. Because by definition these estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment, actual financial results may differ.   

             Competitive Conditions:    The company operates in businesses that are subject to intense competitive pressures (see discussion about
competition in Item 1. Business above).   

             The Company Depends on Skilled Personnel and could be impacted by the loss of Critical Skills:    Much of the future success of the company
depends on the continued service, availability and integrity of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff resources. Experienced personnel in the information
technology industry are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced
workers retire. Further, many of IBM's key personnel receive a total compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish
the company's use, and the value, of the company's equity awards, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation.   

             The Company's Business could be impacted by its Relationships with Critical Suppliers:    IBM's business employs a wide variety of
components, supplies, services and raw materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of the company's businesses rely on single or a limited number of suppliers. Changes
in the financial or business condition of these suppliers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring products to market. Further, the failure of the company's suppliers to
deliver components, supplies, services and raw materials in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect the company's business. In addition, any defective components, supplies
or materials, or inadequate services, received from suppliers could reduce the reliability of the company's products and services and harm the company's reputation.   

             The Company is exposed to Currency and Customer Financing Risks that could impact its Revenue and Business:    The company derives a
significant percentage of its revenues from its affiliates operating in local currency environments, and those results are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies
and the U.S. dollar. Further, inherent in the company's customer financing business are risks related to the concentration of credit, client creditworthiness, interest rate and currency fluctuations
on the associated debt and liabilities, the determination of residual values and the financing of other than traditional IT assets. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these risks,
including the use of derivative financial instruments; derivatives involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can be no assurance that the company's
efforts to manage its currency and customer financing risks will be successful.   

             The Company's Financial Performance could be impacted by Changes in Market Liquidity Conditions and by Customer Credit Risk on
Receivables:    The company's financial performance is exposed to a wide   

  12  

variety
of industry sector dynamics worldwide. The company's earnings and cash flows, as well as its access to funding, could be negatively impacted by changes in market liquidity conditions. IBM's
2008 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information about the company's liquidity position. The company's client base includes many worldwide enterprises, from small and medium businesses to the
world's largest organizations and governments, with a significant portion of the company's revenue coming from global clients across many sectors. Most of the company's sales are on an open credit
basis and the company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients' financial conditions. If the company becomes aware of information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer, or, if
future actual default rates on receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the company may have to adjust its reserves for uncollectible receivables, which could affect the
company's consolidated net income in the period the adjustments are made.   

             The Company's Reliance on Third Party Distribution Channels could impact its Business:    The company offers its products directly and
through a variety of third party distributors and resellers. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and resellers could subject the company to losses and affect its
ability to bring its products to market.   

             Risks to the Company from Acquisitions and Alliances include Integration Challenges, Failure to Achieve Objectives, and the Assumption of
Liabilities:    The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into alliances from time to time. Acquisitions and alliances present significant
challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage acquisitions and alliances successfully. The related
risks include the company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings, as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the
assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business.   

Risk Factors Related to IBM Securities:    The company and its subsidiaries issue debt securities in the worldwide capital markets from time
to time, with a variety of different maturities and in different currencies. The value of the company's debt securities fluctuates based on many factors, including the methods employed for calculating
principal and interest, the maturity of the securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities outstanding, the redemption features for the securities, the level, direction and volatility of
interest rates, changes in exchange rates, exchange controls, governmental and stock exchange regulations and other factors over which the company has little or no control. The company's ability to
pay interest and repay the principal for its debt securities is dependent upon its ability to manage its business operations, as well as the other risks described under this Item 1A. entitled
"Risk Factors." There can be no assurance that the company will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.   

          The
company also issues its common stock from time to time in connection with various compensation plans, contributions to its pension plan and certain acquisitions. The market price of
IBM common stock is subject to significant volatility, due to other factors described under this Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors," as well as economic and geopolitical conditions generally,
trading volumes, speculation by the press or investment community about the company's financial condition, and other factors, many of which are beyond the company's control. Since the market price of
IBM's common stock fluctuates significantly, stockholders may not be able to sell the company's stock at attractive prices.   

          In
addition, changes by any rating agency to the company's outlook or credit ratings can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both the company's debt and equity securities. The
company does not make a market in either its debt or equity securities and cannot provide any assurances with respect to the liquidity or value of such securities.   

  13  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments:            

          Not applicable.   

Item 2. Properties:            

          At December 31, 2008, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the United States had aggregate floor space of
19 million square feet, of which 15 million was owned and 4 million was leased. Of these amounts, 2 million square feet was vacant and 1 million square feet was
being leased to non-IBM businesses. Similar facilities in 8 other countries totaled 6 million square feet, of which 2 million was owned and 4 million was
leased. Of these amounts, 1 million square feet was being leased to non-IBM businesses.   

          Although
improved production techniques, productivity gains and infrastructure reduction actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space, continuous maintenance and upgrading
of facilities is essential to maintain technological leadership, improve productivity and meet customer demand.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings:            

          Refer to note O, "Contingencies and Commitments" on pages 97 to 99 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is
incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders:            

Not applicable.   

PART II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities:   

          Refer
to pages 121 and 125 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this item.   

IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. There were 561,442 common stockholders of record at February 10, 2009.   

          The
following table provides information relating to the company's repurchase of common stock for the fourth quarter of 2008.   

(1)    On
February 26, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized $15.0 billion in funds for use in the company's common stock repurchase program; the
company stated that it would repurchase shares on the open market    
  14  

or
in private transactions depending on market conditions, and that it expects to use cash from operations for the repurchases. The common stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date.
This table does not include
shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in connection with cashless exercises of employee stock options or shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee
equity awards.   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data:            

Refer to pages 120 and 121 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:            

          Refer to pages 18 through 57 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

          In
addition to the information in the Management Discussion on page 19 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report, 2008 gross profit increased 9 percent (9 percent adjusted for
currency) in growth markets and increased 11 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) in major markets versus 2007.   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk:            

          Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on pages 51 and 52 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:            

          Refer to pages 60 through 119 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to
the Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form 10-K.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure:   

          Not
applicable.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures:            

          The company's management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the
effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   

          Refer
to "Report of Management" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on pages 58 and 59 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference. There has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to material affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information:            

          Not Applicable.   

  15  

PART III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Election of Directors for a Term of One Year," "General Information Committees
of the Board," "Audit Committee" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to
Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 24, 2009)" on page 9 for additional information on the company's executive
officers.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information 2008 Director Compensation Narrative," "2008 Director
Compensation Table," "2008 Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "2008 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," "2008 Summary Compensation Table," "2008 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table,"
"2008 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Narrative," "2008 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table," "2008 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table," "2008
Retention Plan Narrative," "2008 Retention Plan Table," "2008 Pension Benefits Narrative," "2008 Pension Benefits Table," "2008 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Narrative," "2008 Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Table," "2008 Potential Payments Upon Termination Narrative," "2008 Potential Payments Upon Termination Table," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and
"2008 Report of the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters:            

          Refer to the information under the caption "Ownership of Securities Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners,"
"Ownership of Securities Common Stock and Stock-Based Holdings of Directors and Executive Officers" and "Equity Compensation Plan Information" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009, all of which information is
incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information Board of Directors" and "General
Information Certain
Transactions and Relationships" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009, which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Audit and
Non-Audit Fees" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  16  

PART IV            

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules:            

(a)    The
following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.    Financial
statements from IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference:    

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 59).   

Consolidated
Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (page 60).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008 and 2007 (page 61).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (page 62).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Stockholders' Equity at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 (pages 63 through 65).   

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 66 through 119).    

2.    Financial
statement schedules required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form:    

Page

Schedule 
Number    

24  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule.  

S-1  

II  
     
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.  

All
other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present, the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or the notes thereto.    

3.    Exhibits:

Reference Number per Item 601 of Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

(2)  
     
  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession.   

Not applicable  

(3)  
      
   Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.   

The Certificate of Incorporation of IBM is Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K filed April 27, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The By-laws of IBM as amended through November 14, 2008, are Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K filed November 14, 2008, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

(4)  
      
   Instruments defining the rights of security holders.   

The instruments defining the rights of the holders of the 7.50% Debentures due 2013 are Exhibits 4(a) through 4(l) to Registration Statement No. 33-49475(1) on Form S-3, filed May 24, 1993, and are hereby incorporated
by reference.   

17  

18  

Reference Number per Item 601 of Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

The IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-30424 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-31305 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1994 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 33-53777 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Forms of LTPP equity award agreements for (i) stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-settled restricted stock units, SARS, (ii) performance share units and (iii) retention
restricted stock unit award. Such equity award agreement forms and the related terms and conditions document effective January 1, 2008 were filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, are hereby
incorporated by reference.*  

Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under the caption "General Information 2008 Director Compensation" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 28, 2009, are hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, contained in Registration Statement 33-60227 on Form S-8, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended effective October 28, 2008.*  

10.1  

The IBM Supplemental Executive Retention Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated through December 31, 2008.*  

10.2  

The IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated through December 31, 2008 (formerly the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan contained in Registration Statement
No. 333-33692 on Form S-8), which amended and restated plan is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

10.3  

19  

Reference Number per Item 601 of Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

The IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2008, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 (formerly the
IBM Tax Deferred Savings Plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-09055 on Form S-8), is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 2003 Employees Stock Purchase Plan, contained in Registration Statement 333-104806 on Form S-8, as amended through April 1, 2005, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Attachment 1 to Form 8-K dated April 6, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The $10,000,000,000 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006, among International Business Machines Corporation, each Subsidiary Borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to
time parties to the Credit Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders, and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated June 29, 2006, is hereby incorporated
by reference.   

The $11,500,000,000 Term Loan Agreement dated as of May 25, 2007, among IBM International Group B.V. (the "Borrower"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto
(the "Lenders"), Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as Documentation Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., as Syndication Agent, which was filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

First Amendment to Term Loan dated as of May 25, 2007, among IBM International Group B.V. (the "Borrower"), the several banks and other financial institutions from time to time parties thereto (the
"Lenders"), Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, Deutsche Bank AG Cayman Islands Branch, as Documentation Agent, and Lehman Commercial Paper, Inc., as Syndication Agent, which was filed as
Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The Guaranty Agreement dated as of May 25, 2007, among International Business Machines Corporation ("Guarantor"), for the benefit of the Lenders from time to time party to the $11,500,000,000 Term Loan Agreement,
and in favor of Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc., as administrative agent for the Lenders, which was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

20  

*    Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      **    The
Performance Graphs, set forth on pages 122 and 123 of IBM's 2008 Annual Report to Stockholders, are deemed to be furnished but not filed.    
  21  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION    (Registrant)  

By:  
      
   /s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano     Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 24, 2009   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ MARK LOUGHRIDGE 

Mark Loughridge  
     
      Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  
     
  February 24, 2009  

/s/ JAMES J. KAVANAUGH 

James J. Kavanaugh  
     
      Vice President and Controller  
     
      February 24, 2009  

Alain J.P. Belda           
    Cathleen Black           
William R. Brody           
Kenneth I. Chenault            
Michael L. Eskew             
Shirley Ann Jackson             
Taizo Nishimuro             
James W. Owens             
Joan E. Spero           
Sidney Taurel           
Lorenzo H. Zambrano  

Director             
Director             
Director             
Director             
Director           
Director           
Director           
Director            
Director             
Director             
Director  

By:           

/s/ Andrew Bonzani 

Andrew Bonzani     Attorney-in-fact    
February 24, 2009  

22  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE            

  To
the Stockholders and Board of Directors of 
International Business Machines Corporation:   

          Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 24, 2009
appearing in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders of International Business Machines Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial
Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.   

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
New York, New York 
February 24, 2009   

  23  

SCHEDULE II            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES   For the Years Ended December 31:   (Dollars in Millions)

*    Additions
for Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Allowance for Inventory Losses are charged to expense and cost accounts, respectively, while Revenue Based
Provisions are charged to revenue accounts.
      **    Primarily
comprises currency translation adjustments.    
  S-1  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   

Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
  Item 2. Properties   
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
 
  PART II   
 
  Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
  Item 9B. Other Information   
 
  PART III   
 
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
 
  PART IV   
 
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

SIGNATURES   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE   

SCHEDULE II   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES For the Years Ended December 31: (Dollars in Millions)   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 a2189817zex-10_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

EXHIBIT
10.1   

Note   : This exhibit reflects amendments to the IBM
Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (DCEAP) to bring
the plan into compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. 

IBM Board
of Directors   

Deferred Compensation
and Equity Award Plan   

ARTICLE I.                       Purpose  

International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM )
established the Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (the  Plan ) to
enable members of the Board of Directors (the  Board ) who are not then IBM employees
( Outside Directors ) to defer receipt of compensation for the services of
Outside Directors to later years and to provide part of the compensation for
the services of Outside Directors in a promise to deliver shares of IBM Capital
Stock ( Shares ).  

ARTICLE II.                      Maintenance
of Records  

IBM shall maintain two bookkeeping accounts
for each Outside Director, a Cash Account and a Promised Fee Shares Account,
which shall be credited in accordance with the terms of this Plan and the
elections of each Outside Director pursuant to this Plan.  

ARTICLE III.                     Payment
and Deferral of Fees  

(a)           Payment in
Deferred Shares; Amounts Accrued Under Retirement Plan  

Sixty percent of the annual
retainer fees to be earned by each Outside Director ( Fees ) shall be payable
in the form of a promise by IBM to deliver Shares ( Promised Fee Shares )
pursuant to ARTICLE V hereof.  The
Payment of such Promised Fee Shares shall be deferred until the Outside
Director ceases to be a member of the Board.  

Notwithstanding anything herein
to the contrary, the Promised Fee Shares included in the Promised Fee Shares
Accounts of the Outside Directors pursuant to the resolutions adopted by the
Board on January 30, 1996, with respect to the elimination of retirement
payments to Outside Directors shall be payable solely in cash in accordance
with the provisions of ARTICLE V hereof. 
The payment of such Promised Fee Shares shall be deferred until the
Outside Director ceases to be a member of the Board.  Payment shall be made at that time only to those
Outside Directors who have served five or more years as a Board member, subject
to the discretion of the board.  

1  

(b)           Eligibility
and Election  

Any Outside Director may elect
to defer receipt of all or any portion of the remainder of the Fees to be
earned by such Outside Director by indicating such election to the Secretary of
IBM on an Election Form supplied by the Secretary ( Deferral Election ).  The Outside Director s election must specify (i) the
portion of such Fees to be deferred and (ii) the choice of deferral in
cash or Promised Fee Shares, pursuant to ARTICLE V hereof.  

Election Term  shall mean the
period beginning on January 1 of any calendar year and ending on December 31
of such year, provided, however that if an Outside Director joins or leaves the
Board during such year, the Election Term shall begin or end on the date such
director joins or leaves the Board, as the case may be.  

(c)           Credit for
Amounts Deferred  

(i)             The Cash
Account will be credited with the amount of Fees accrued and deferred as cash
(such credit to be made when such Fees become payable), plus interest at an
annual rate equal to the average of the first 26-week Treasury Bill issued in January and
July of each year, computed from the date such Fees would have been paid
had they not been deferred. 

(ii)            The
Promised Fee Shares Account will be credited with the number of Shares,
including fractions, which could have been purchased had the amount of the Fees
accrued and deferred as Promised Fee Shares been used to purchase Shares on the
date such Fees would have been paid had they not been deferred, at a price
equal to Fair Market Value on such date. 

(iii)            Fair Market
Value  shall be the average of the high and low prices of Shares on the New
York Stock Exchange on the date in question, or if no sales of Shares were made
on said Exchange on that date, the average of the high and low prices reported
for the preceding day on which sales of Shares were made on said Exchange. 

(iv)           Promised Fee
Shares do not have voting rights. 

2  

(d)           Advance
Notice of Election  

An Outside Director shall make
a Deferral Election no later than 30 days after the effective date of initial
election to the Board.  Each Outside
Director that does not provide notice to the Secretary of a Deferral Election
in accordance with the preceding sentence will be deemed to have elected to
defer receipt of all Fees (other than Fees automatically deferred) in the form
of Promised Fee Shares.  

(e)           Duration
of Election  

Each Deferral Election is
irrevocable with respect to the then current Election Term.  Any modification or termination of a Deferral
Election by an Outside Director must be made in writing to the Secretary of IBM
within 30 days prior to the end of the then current Election Term and will become
effective for the subsequent Election Term. 
A Deferral Election shall continue from Election Term to Election Term
unless the Outside Director submits either (i) a written request to modify
or terminate that election or (ii) a new Election Form, in each case in
accordance herewith.  

(f)            Financial
Hardship  

In the event that an Outside
Director incurs a severe financial hardship, the Outside Director s Deferral Election
(including a deemed election pursuant to Article III(d) hereof) may
be cancelled by the Outside Director upon written request approved by the Board
(or an authorized Committee of the Board); in such case, the Outside Director
shall be deemed to have elected to receive cash payment of Fees (other than
Fees automatically deferred) for the remainder of the Election Term.  Such severe financial hardship must be caused
by an accident, illness, or other unforeseeable emergency beyond the control of
the Outside Director in accordance with applicable regulations and related
authority.  The Outside Director may then
make a Deferral Election for any subsequent Election Term in accordance with Article III(e) hereof.  

ARTICLE IV.                    Dividends,
Distributions and Adjustments 

Whenever a cash dividend or any other
distribution is paid with respect to Shares, the Promised Fee Shares Account of
each Outside Director shall be credited with an additional number of Promised
Fee Shares, equal to the number of Shares, including fractional Shares, that
could have been purchased had such dividend or other distribution been paid on
each Promised Fee Share in the Promised Fee Shares Account (on the record date
for such dividend or distribution) and the amount of such dividend or value of
such other distribution been used to acquire additional Shares at the Fair
Market Value on the date such dividend or other distribution is paid.  The value of any such other distribution on
or related to Shares shall, at the option of the Board  

3  

(or an authorized Committee of the Board), be
either determined by the Board or independently established.  

The number of Promised Fee Shares shall be
fully adjusted upon the occurrence of any stock split, stock dividend,
recapitalization, merger or similar event, and shall be appropriately adjusted
for the value (determined in the manner provided above with respect to
distributions) of any right, privilege or opportunity provided or offered by
IBM to holders of Shares.  

ARTICLE V.                      Delivery  

Delivery of amounts from the Cash Account and
Shares from the Promised Fee Shares  

Account will be made to an Outside Director
promptly (no later than 90 days) after the date on which the Outside Director
ceases to be a member of the Board;  provided , that when an Outside
Director terminates service on account of any act of (i) fraud or
intentional misrepresentation or (ii) embezzlement, misappropriation or
conversion of assets or opportunities of IBM or any direct or indirect
majority-owned subsidiary of IBM, any Shares that were converted to Promised
Fee Shares and credited to such Outside Director s Promised Fee Shares Account
upon termination of the Restricted Equity Award Plan (as such Shares may have
been increased as a result of any dividend, distribution or adjustment in
accordance with ARTICLE IV) shall be forfeited.  

In the event of an Outside Director s death,
such Outside Director s estate or beneficiaries, as appropriate, shall be paid
(no later than 90 days after such death) the amount credited to his or her Cash
Account and an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the date of death of
the Promised Fee Shares credited to his or her Promised Fee Shares Account.  

Upon becoming entitled to receive Shares, an
Outside Director may elect to receive in lieu thereof a cash payment.  Such cash payment shall be equal to the Fair
Market Value of the Shares on the first day after the date on which the
Director ceases to be a member of the Board.  

In any case when Shares are to be delivered,
a cash payment will be so made in lieu of delivering a fractional share.  

4  

ARTICLE VI.                     Source
of Shares  

45,000 Shares as of July 27, 1993, plus
an additional 25,000 Shares as of May 1, 1994, and as of each May 1
thereafter, shall be reserved and authorized for delivery under the Plan from
time to time.  These Shares may be
provided from newly-issued or repurchased Shares.  If any change is made in the number of Shares
outstanding or in the rights of such outstanding Shares (such as by stock
split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification, recapitalization,
merger or similar event), the Board (or an authorized Committee of the Board)
may make such adjustments in the number of or rights relating to Shares
authorized to be delivered pursuant to the Plan as the Board (or such
Committee) determines is equitable to preserve the respective rights of the
participants in the Plan.  Shares
forfeited under the Plan or settled in cash in lieu of delivery shall not
reduce the number of Shares authorized under the Plan and shall not be deemed
to have been delivered under the Plan;  provided , that the number of
Shares settled in cash in lieu of delivery shall not exceed the cumulative
number of Shares authorized for delivery under the Plan (without deduction for
Shares delivered).  

ARTICLE VII.                   Alienability  

No amount due or payable under the Plan or
any interest in the Plan shall be subject in any manner to alienation, sale,
transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, lien, levy or like
encumbrance.  No such amount shall in any
manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liability of any Outside
Director.  Prior to delivery of Shares by
IBM pursuant to ARTICLE V, no director shall have any right to transfer or
assign any Shares, or any right to receive any Share, credited to him under
this Plan.  Any purported assignment
shall be null and void.  

ARTICLE VIII.                  Outside
Director s Rights Unsecured  

The right of an Outside Director to receive any
cash payment or Shares hereunder shall rank as an unsecured claim against
IBM.  Assets that may be set aside for
IBM s convenience with respect to the Plan shall not in any way be held in
trust for, or be subject to any prior claim by, an Outside Director or
beneficiary.  

ARTICLE IX.                    Amendment
and Termination  

The Board or any authorized Committee of the
Board may at any time terminate, and may at any time and from time to time and
in any respect amend the Plan for any reason.  

Amended: 
October 28, 2008  

5  

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 a2189817zex-10_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.2

Exhibit 10.2   

Note   :  This exhibit reflects amendments to the IBM
Supplemental Executive Retention Plan to bring the plan into compliance with Section 409A
of the Internal Revenue Code.  

IBM SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE
RETENTION PLAN   

Effective January 1,
2009  

(As Amended Through December 31,
2008)  

Table of Contents    

Article 1
  - Purpose  

1  

Article 2
  - Definitions  

1  

Article 3
  - Coverage and Effect  

5  

Article 4
  - Management and Administration  

7  

Article 5
  - Claims Procedure  

8  

Article 6
  - Service Credit  

8  

A. Non-U.S. Service  

8  

B. Service Credit for Leaves of Absence  

8  

Article 7
  - Entitlement to Benefits  

10  

Article 8
  - SERP Benefits  

10  

A. Formula  

10  

B. Reduction for Benefits Payable Prior to Age 60  

11  

C. Form and Method of Payment  

11  

C. Form and Method of Payment  

12  

D. Effective Date of Election  

12  

E. Revocation of Election  

13  

Article 9
    Preretirement Survivor Annuity  

13  

Article 10
  - Suspension of Benefits For Re-Employed participants  

13  

Article 11 - Forfeiture  

14  

A. Detrimental Activities  

14  

B. Forfeiture and Rescission  

14  

Article 12
  - Information For Benefit Calculations  

15  

Article 13
    Non-Alienation Of Benefits  

15  

Article 14
    Withholding Taxes  

15  

Article 15
    Distributions To Minors And Incompetents  

15  

Article 16
    No Right TO Employment  

16  

Article 17
    Unfunded Plan  

16  

Article 18
  - Miscellaneous  

16  

A. Construction  

16  

B. Severability  

16  

C. Titles and Headings Not to Control  

16  

D. Complete Statement of the Plan  

17  

E. Booklets and Brochures  

17  

Article 19
    Situs Of Plan; Governing Law  

17  

Appendix
  A - Transition Rules  

18  

Appendix
  B - IBM Supplemental Executive
  Retirement Plan (the Prior Plan)  

19  

Article 1 - Purpose  

20  

Article 2 - Definitions  

20  

Article 3   Coverage and Effect  

22  

Article 4   Management and Administration  

23  

Article 5   Claims Procedure  

24  

Article 6   Service Credit  

24  

A. Foreign Service  

24  

B. Service Credit for Leaves of Absence  

25  

C. Other Service Credit  

25  

Article 7   Retirement Date and Commencement of
  Benefits  

25  

A. Foreign Service  

25  

B. Early Retirement Date  

25  

C. Commencement of SERP Benefits  

26  

Article 8   SERP Benefits  

26  

A. Normal Retirement Benefit  

26  

B. SERP Benefit  

27  

C. Form and Method of Payment  

28  

D. Effective Date of Election  

29  

E. Revocation of Election  

29  

F. SERP Benefits for Disabled Participants  

29  

Article 9   Preretirement Spousal Annuity  

30  

Article 10   Suspension of Benefits for Reemployed
  Retired Participants  

30  

Article 11 - Forfeitures  

31  

A. Competitive or Prejudicial Conduct  

31  

B. Disclosure of Confidential Information  

31  

C. Disclosure and Assignment of Rights  

31  

D. Forfeiture and Rescission  

32  

Article 12 - Information for Benefits Calculations  

32  

A. Incomplete or Incorrect Information  

32  

B. Overpayments  

32  

Article 13   Alienation of Benefits  

33  

Article 14   Withholding Taxes  

33  

Article 15   Distributions to Minors and incompetents  

33  

Article 16   No Right to Employment  

34  

Article 17   Unfunded Plan  

34  

Article 18 - Miscellaneous  

34  

A. Construction  

34  

B. Severability  

34  

C. Titles and Headings Not to Control  

34  

D. Complete Statement of Plan  

35  

E. Booklets and Brochures  

35  

Article 19   Situs of Plan; Governing Law  

35  

Appendix
  C   PwC SERP  

36  

Appendix
  D   IBM SECTION 409A UMBRELLA
  DOCUMENT  

48  

ARTICLE 1 - Purpose   

International
Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, has established the IBM
Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (the  SERP  or the  Plan ) with the
intention of attracting and retaining executives whose skills and talents are
important to IBM s operations by providing a monthly post-employment income
that supplements benefits under the IBM Personal Pension Plan and the IBM
Excess Personal Pension Plan.  

ARTICLE 2 - Definitions   

a.                                           409A Designated Payment Date - the date
on which payment is designated to begin to be paid pursuant to Section 8.D.  

b.                                          409A First Issue Date - means the date on
which a benefit from the Plan actually begins to be paid to a Participant or,
in the case of a pre-retirement death benefit, to the Participant s
Beneficiary.  The 409A First Issue Date
is the 409A Designated Payment Date or any later date specified in the Plan
that is treated as paid on the 409A Designated Payment Date in accordance with
Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which permits payment to be made
within thirty days before the date specified in the Plan and later within the
same calendar year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months following the date
specified in the Plan, provided that the Participant is not permitted to
designate the taxable year of payment.  

c.                                           409A Key Employee - a specified employee
under section 409A of the Code, determined as described in the IBM Section 409A
Umbrella Document attached to this Plan as APPENDIX D.  

d.                                          409A Separation from Service - a
separation from service under section 409A of the Code (including the good
faith compliance standard in effect before January 1, 2009), determined as
described in the IBM Section 409A Umbrella Document attached to this Plan
as APPENDIX D.  

e.                                           Actuarial Equivalent - when comparing a
benefit differing in time, period or manner of payment from another benefit,
having the same value (as of the relevant Annuity Commencement Date unless
otherwise specified in the Plan) as determined by the Plan Administrator based
on the actuarial assumptions specified under the term  Actuarial Equivalent  in
Section 2.1 of the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  

f.                                             Annuity Commencement Date - the first day
of the month following a Participant s 409A Separation from Service, which is
the date as of which SERP Benefits are calculated.  

1  

g.                                          Annuity Election Period - the period
during which a Participant may elect among actuarially equivalent annuities in
accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(ii).  The Annuity Election Period begins 180 days
before a Participant s 409A Separation from Service Date and ends on the first
day of the second month following the 409A Separation from Service Date.  

h.                                          Beneficiary - a person who is designated
by a Participant or by the terms of the Plan to receive a SERP Benefit under
the Plan in respect of a deceased Participant. 
A Beneficiary shall not be considered a Participant by virtue of this
definition.  

i.                                              Benefit Service - an Executive s
Continuous Service while a Regular Employee or a Leave of Absence Employee and
while accruing benefits under the IBM Personal Pension Plan or any predecessor
plan, rounded to the next completed month, except that Benefit Service shall
not exceed 35 years and shall not include periods of Continuous Service that
occur prior to the latest date of hire or rehire with IBM except as provided in
ARTICLE 6 hereof.  

j.                                              Board - the Board of Directors of IBM.  

k.                                           Choice 1 Employee - an individual who is
defined as a Choice 1 Employee under the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  

l.                                              Code - the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended from time to time.  All
citations to sections of the Code are to such sections as they may from time to
time be amended or renumbered.  

m.                                        Compensation - salary and recurring
payments under any form of variable compensation plan (such as the Variable Pay
Program and the Annual Incentive Program but not any Long-Term Incentive Plan)
in the Plan Year when earned, even if such amounts are paid after the
Participant terminates employment. Compensation includes additional
compensation, including but not limited to payments for nonscheduled workdays,
overtime and shift premium.  

Effective on or after July 1, 1999,
for a Participant who is a Sales Executive assigned commission targets (or
similar results-based compensation targets, as designated by the Company), and
effective on and after January 1, 2000 for any other Participant assigned
commission targets (or similar results-based compensation targets, as
designated by the Company), Compensation shall equal the sales plan target
commission established for such a Participant based on the respective incentive
plan payout tables, and is credited monthly on a pro rata basis.  

Neither separation allowances, special
termination incentives, payments under any individually-negotiated separation
arrangement, special awards, cash in lieu of accrued unused vacation, nor
deferred and accrued vacation payments to terminating Employees shall be
considered Compensation. Compensation shall include only such additional items as
are specifically approved by the Committee.  

2  

Otherwise eligible compensation deferred
or reduced under the provisions of Section 125, 129, 132(f)(4), or 401(k) of
the Code and amounts deferred under the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan, or any predecessor or successor plan thereto (in the year the amounts are
deferred instead of being paid) are included in this definition.  

Compensation shall not include amounts
paid under the LTD Plan.  

n.                                          Continuous Service - service that is
defined as Continuous Service under the IBM Personal Pension Plan except as
provided in ARTICLE 6 hereof.  

o.                                          Default Annuity Form - the form of
annuity paid to a Participant who is entitled to an annuity form of benefit under
the Plan and does not affirmatively elect the type of annuity. e.g., a single
life annuity or joint and survivor annuity. 
The Default Annuity Form is an annuity for the life of the
Participant, except, if the Participant is married or has a Domestic Partner on
the Annuity Commencement Date, the Excess Default Annuity Form is a joint
and 50% survivor annuity with the Participant s Spouse or Domestic Partner as
the survivor annuitant.  

p.                                          Domestic Partner - an individual who is
defined as the Domestic Partner of a Participant under the IBM Personal Pension
Plan.  

q.                                          Domestic Subsidiary - a Subsidiary
organized and existing under the laws of the United States or any state,
territory or possession thereof, provided, however, that the Plan shall not be
deemed to cover the employees of any Domestic Subsidiary unless so authorized
by the chief human resources officer of IBM.  

r.                                             Early Retirement Date - a date that is
defined as an Early Retirement Date under the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  

s.                                           Eligibility Service - an Executive s
Continuous Service while a Regular Employee or a Leave of Absence Employee,
truncated to years and completed months, except that Eligibility Service shall
not include periods of Continuous Service that occur prior to the latest date
of hire or rehire with IBM except as provided in ARTICLE 6 hereof.  

t.                                             ERISA - the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of l974, as amended from time to time.  

u.                                          Executive - a Regular Employee who is
classified as an Executive in the sole discretion of the Company s chief human
resources officer.  

v.                                          Executive Compensation and Management
Resources Committee (also, the  Committee ) - the Executive Compensation and
Management Resources Committee of the Board or such other persons or group as
said Board may appoint to serve as the Committee.  

3  

w.                                        IBM    or Company -
International Business Machines Corporation and its Domestic Subsidiaries,
excluding foreign offices of IBM except as otherwise provided in these Articles.  

x.                                            IBM Personal Pension Plan - the Plan
which amends and restates the terms of the IBM Retirement Plan effective as of January 1,
1995.  

y.                                          IBM Retirement Plan - the retirement plan
established by IBM pursuant to a resolution of its Board effective December l8,
l945, as amended from time to time which was amended and superseded by the IBM
Personal Pension Plan.  

z.                                            Leave of Absence Employee - an individual
who commences a leave of absence granted under IBM s various leave programs
then in effect, who is a Regular Employee immediately before such leave of
absence and who resumes the status of a Regular Employee for at least 30
consecutive days immediately following the completion of the leave of
absence.  An individual who is on a
bridge leave is not a Leave of Absence Employee.  

aa.                                     Non-U.S. Service - service with a
Subsidiary other than a Domestic Subsidiary or with a branch of IBM or of a
Domestic Subsidiary that operates principally outside the United States, its
territories or possessions.  

bb.                                   Normal Retirement Date - the date that is
defined as the Normal Retirement Date under the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  

cc.                                     Offset Amount - the annual single life
annuity described in Section A of ARTICLE 8.  

dd.                                   Participant - an Executive who meets the
requirements of ARTICLE 3, or a former Executive who is receiving SERP Benefits
pursuant to the provisions of the Plan. 
A Participant in the Plan shall not be deemed a participant in any Plan
amendment nor have standing to make a claim for benefits under any Plan
amendment except to the degree any such amendment specifically grants benefits
to such Participant.  

ee.                                     Pay - (i) the annual average of the
Participant s Compensation during the last 60 months in which Continuous
Service is earned, or (ii) the highest annual average of the Participant s
Compensation during any five consecutive calendar years in which Continuous
Service is earned, whichever is greater.  

ff.                                         Pay Threshold - $250,000; provided that
effective January 1, 2000 and each subsequent January 1, the Pay
Threshold in effect on the preceding December 31 shall be increased by 5%,
rounded to the nearest $100. The Pay Threshold described in the preceding
sentence may be increased by any additional amount, and effective as of any
date, by IBM s chief human resources officer in his or her sole discretion.  

4  

gg.                                   Personal Pension Account - the account
that is defined as the Personal Pension Account under the IBM Personal Pension
Plan.  

hh.                                   Plan Administrator - a person or a
committee appointed pursuant to ARTICLE 4 which shall be responsible for
overseeing reporting, disclosure, record keeping, claims review and related
administrative matters under the Plan. 
If a committee is appointed to serve as the Plan Administrator, any one
of the members of the committee may act individually on behalf of the committee
to fulfill the committee s duties as Plan Administrator.  

ii.                                           Plan Year - the calendar year.  

jj.                                           Prior Plan - the IBM Supplemental
Executive Retirement Plan as in effect on June 30, 1999, a copy of which
is appended as APPENDIX B and which remains in effect only as described in
APPENDIX A.  

kk.                                     Qualifying Leave - a  Qualifying Leave 
as defined in the IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan.  

ll.                                           Regular Employee - an employee who is
defined as a Regular Employee under the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  

mm.                               SERP Benefit - a single payment or series
of monthly payments made or due under the Plan.  

nn.                                   Spouse - a person who, on the earlier of (i) the
date of the Participant s death while employed by IBM or (ii) the
Participant s Annuity Commencement Date, is the husband or wife of a
Participant, according to the marriage laws of the state (or country) of the
Participant s domicile.  

oo.                                   Subsidiary - a corporation, or other form
of business organization, the majority interest of which is owned, directly or
indirectly, by IBM.  

ARTICLE 3 - Coverage and
Effect   

A.                                       This
Plan amends and restates the terms of the Plan, effective January 1,
2009.  However, benefits that commenced
under the Plan before January 1, 2005, shall be not be subject to this
Plan document but instead shall be subject to the terms of the Plan in effect
on October 3, 2004 (taking into account any subsequent amendments to the
extent that such amendments do not constitute a material modification within
the meaning of section 409A of the Code). 
A Regular Employee who is an Executive employed by IBM on the United
States payroll, and whose Pay after June 30, 1999 equals or exceeds the
Pay Threshold shall be a Participant in the Plan, except as provided in Section B
of this Article 3.  A Regular
Employee who is described in APPENDIX C (relating to certain former partners of
PwC) shall also be a Participant in the Plan, but such a Regular Employee s
SERP Benefits under the Plan shall be described solely in APPENDIX C.  

5  

B.                                         Notwithstanding
any other provision to the contrary, effective on and after May 1, 2004,
an individual shall not be entitled to a SERP Benefit unless the individual
would otherwise be entitled to a SERP Benefit under the terms of the Plan or
any applicable appendix, and:  

(1)                                      The
individual is a former Executive who is receiving a SERP Benefit as of April 30,
2004 pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, or is a Participant who received a
SERP Benefit that is suspended as of May 1, 2004 under ARTICLE 10,  

(2)                                      The
individual is entitled to a SERP Benefit under APPENDIX A and B, or C, or  

(3)                                      The
individual (a) is an Executive throughout the period commencing on April 30,
2004 and ending on his or her termination of employment with IBM, and (b) has
Pay as of December 31, 2003 of at least $319,100, or has an annualized
base salary and target incentive compensation as of May 1, 2004 of at
least $319,100.  

C.                                         Notwithstanding
any other provision to the contrary other than the last paragraph of ARTICLE
C5.A. (relating to the PwC SERP Participants with Prior C L Legacy Annual
SERP Benefits under Exhibit II), effective as of the close of business on December 20,
2005:  

(1)                                      No individual shall accrue
any benefits under the Plan after December 31, 2007.  Thus, no individual shall experience an
increase or decrease in any retirement, ancillary, or other benefit he or she
had already earned or accrued under the Plan as of December 31, 2007,
except as provided in this paragraph. 
The amount of an individual s SERP Benefit shall be determined without
regard to any change after December 31, 2007, in the individual s Pay, the
individual s service, the Pay Threshold, the Earnings Threshold or the
Breakpoint, provided, however, that any change in the individual s age and
service shall be taken into account for purposes of determining the individual s
eligibility to receive a SERP Benefit. 
An individual is not considered to experience an increase or decrease in
any SERP Benefit for purposes of this paragraph merely because the SERP Benefit
(including the determination of any offset for the benefit payable under the
IBM Personal Pension Plan or the IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan) is adjusted
because of the time or form of payment. 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an individual s SERP Benefit on or after January 1,
2008, may decrease to the extent that the offset for benefits under the IBM
Personal Pension Plan or IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan is increased because
of additional accruals after December 31, 2007.  

(2)                                      If the SERP Benefit begins
to be paid during 2006, the Pay Threshold shall be $386,100 and if the SERP
Benefit begins to be paid after 2006, the Pay Threshold shall be $405,400.  With respect to the formula in APPENDIX B, if
the SERP Benefit begins to be paid during 2006, the Breakpoint shall be
$296,600 and the Earnings Threshold shall be $160,000, and if the SERP Benefit
begins to be paid after 2006, the Breakpoint shall be $311,400 and the Earnings
Threshold shall be $160,000.  

6  

ARTICLE
4 - Management and Administration   

The Plan may be amended
from time to time for any purpose permitted by law or terminated at any time by
written resolution of the Board or the Committee, but only if the Committee s
action is not materially inconsistent with a prior action of the Board.  The authority to amend or terminate the Plan
shall include the authority to amend the procedure for amending or terminating
the Plan and the authority to amend or terminate any related instrument or
agreement.  

The
following persons and groups of persons shall severally have the authority to
control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan as herein
delineated:  (a) the Board, (b) the
Committee, (c) IBM s chief human resources officer, and (d) the Plan
Administrator and each person on any committee serving as the Plan
Administrator.  Each person or group of
persons shall be responsible for discharging only the duties assigned to it by
the terms of the Plan.  

The
Board shall be responsible only for designating those persons who will serve on
the Committee and for approving any resolution to terminate the Plan.  

The
Committee may, pursuant to a duly adopted resolution, delegate to IBM s chief
financial officer, chief human resources officer, or Treasurer, the Plan
Administrator and/or any other officer or employee of IBM, authority to carry
out any decision, directive or resolution of the Committee.  

The
Committee shall appoint one or more executives employed by IBM to serve as Plan
Administrator or as a committee to fulfill the function of Plan
Administrator.  The Plan Administrator
shall have the full power and authority, in its sole discretion: (a) to
promulgate and enforce such rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan; (b) to adopt
any amendments to the Plan that are required by law; (c) to interpret the
Plan consistent with the terms and intent thereof; (d) to resolve any
possible ambiguities, inconsistencies and omissions in the Plan; and (e) to
determine eligibility for SERP Benefits and the form, amount, and timing of
SERP Benefits in accordance with the provisions of the Plan.  All such actions shall be conclusive provided
they are in accordance with the terms and intent of the Plan and the Plan
Administrator shall on a regular basis report such actions to the Committee.  Additionally, IBM s chief human resources
officer shall appoint and designate such other IBM employees as may be needed
to provide adequate staff services to the Committee and the Plan Administrator.  

The
Committee and/or the Plan Administrator may engage the services of accountants,
attorneys, actuaries, consultants and such other professional personnel as they
deem necessary or advisable to assist them in fulfilling their responsibilities
under the Plan.  The Committee, the Plan
Administrator, and their delegates and assistants shall be entitled to act on
the basis of all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports
furnished by such professional personnel.  

To the maximum extent
permitted by IBM s by-laws, IBM shall indemnify each member of the Committee,
the Plan Administrator, and each director, officer, and employee or agent of
the Company against any expenses and liabilities that such person may incur as
a result of any act or failure to act, in good faith, by such person in
relation to the Plan.  

7  

ARTICLE
5 - Claims Procedure   

IBM s Executive
Compensation Department is responsible for advising Participants and
Beneficiaries of their SERP Benefits under the Plan.  If a Participant or Beneficiary or putative
Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to SERP Benefits and
has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must submit a written
claim to the Executive Compensation Department, IBM Corporation, New Orchard
Road, Armonk, New York 10504.  If the
claim is wholly or partially denied, the Executive Compensation Department
shall furnish to the claimant a written decision setting forth the Executive
Compensation Department s decision within 90 days after receipt of the claim
(or 180 days, if an extension is required).  

If
the Executive Compensation Department denies a claim for SERP Benefits in whole
or in part, the claimant may appeal the denial of the claim in writing within
60 days of receiving the Executive Compensation Department s written
decision.  If the claim denial is timely
appealed, the Plan Administrator shall conduct a full and fair review of the
claim.  The decision of the Plan
Administrator shall be made not later than 60 days (or 120 days, if an
extension is required) after the receipt of the appeal.  

The
following claims procedure applies for purposes of section 409A of the
Code.  If a Participant or Beneficiary
believes he or she is entitled to have received benefits but has not received
them, the Participant or Beneficiary must accept any payment made under the
Plan and make prompt and reasonable, good faith efforts to collect the
remaining portion of the payment, as determined under Treasury Regulation
section 1.409A-3(g).  For this purpose
(and as determined under such regulation), efforts to collect the payment will
be presumed not to be prompt, reasonable, good faith efforts, unless the
Participant or Beneficiary provides notice to the Plan Administrator within 90
days of the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely made in
accordance with the terms of the Plan and the regulations under Code Section 409A,
and unless, if not paid, the Participant or Beneficiary takes further
enforcement measures within 180 days after such latest date.  In addition, a Participant or Beneficiary
must exhaust any other claims procedures established by the Plan Administrator
before initiating litigation.  

ARTICLE 6 - Service
Credit   

A.                                        Non-U.S.
Service   .     Non-U.S. Service will be deemed as Benefit
Service and Eligibility Service; provided, that such Non-U.S. Service immediately
precedes service as a Regular Employee, and that such Non-U.S. Service ended
and such subsequent service as a Regular Employee started before July 1,
1999; and further provided, that a Participant with such Non-U.S. Service not
immediately preceded by Continuous Service with IBM must, before credit for
such Non-U.S. Service is given, complete one year of Continuous Service as a
Regular Employee subsequent to such Non-U.S. Service.  

B.                                          Service
Credit for Leaves of Absence   .  

(1)                                       Leave
of Absence   .  An individual who commences a leave of absence
granted under IBM s various leave program practices then in effect, and who is
a Regular Employee immediately before such leave of absence, but who does not
resume the status of a Regular Employee for at least 30 consecutive days
immediately following the completion of the leave of absence (and, therefore,
is not a Leave of Absence Employee):  

8  

(a)                                      shall
not be credited with Benefit Service or Eligibility Service for the Continuous
Service completed while a Regular Employee subsequent to such leave of absence,
and  

(b)                                     shall
not be eligible for a SERP Benefit unless such individual was eligible for a
SERP Benefit when such leave commenced.  

(2)                                       Military
Leave   .  

A Participant who commences a leave for
the purpose of qualified military service as that term is defined by Section 414(u) of
the Internal Revenue Code and who returns to employment within the time period
specified by said Section and otherwise meets the requirements of said Section and
of the Plan shall be deemed for all Plan purposes as having been a Regular
Employee throughout the period of qualified military service and to have
received Compensation during the leave at the rate in effect immediately before
the military leave began.  

9  

ARTICLE 7- Eligibility
for SERP Benefits   

A
Participant shall be eligible for a SERP Benefit only if the Participant is an
Executive on his or her 409A Separation from Service, the Participant has Pay
in excess of the Pay Threshold on both January 1, 2007, and the date of
his or her 409A Separation from Service, a forfeiture under ARTICLE 11 does not
occur, and either:  

A.                                       The
Participant s employment with IBM terminates for any reason other than cause on
a date after the Participant has completed five years of Eligibility Service
and has attained age 60; or  

B.                                         The
Participant s 409A Separation from Service occurs on a date after the
Participant has completed 15 years of Eligibility Service and has attained age
55, and either:  

(1)                                      The
Participant incurs a 409A Separation from Service because of the Participant s
total and permanent disability (as determined in accordance with the terms of
the IBM Long-Term Disability Plan, as amended from time to time); or  

(2)                                      Approval
is granted at the discretion of:  

(a)                                      the
Board, in the case of the two highest paid officers of IBM,  

(b)                                     the
Committee and the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of IBM, in the case of
any other officer of IBM, and  

(c)                                      the
chief human resources officer and any other approvals required by the Chairman s
and Chief Executive Officer s delegated powers matrix, in all other cases.  

ARTICLE 8 - SERP
Benefits   

A .                                         Formula   .  

The Participant s annual SERP Benefit, when
expressed as a single life annuity commencing as of the first day of the month
next following the Participant s 409A Separation from Service, shall be
calculated as follows:  

(1)                                      1%
times Pay up to the Pay Threshold for the year of 409A Separation from Service
times the number of years of Benefit Service; plus  

(2)                                      2.5%
times Pay in excess of the Pay Threshold for the year of 409A Separation from
Service times the number of years of Benefit Service.  

There shall be offset from the amount
calculated in (1) and (2), an Offset Amount.  The Offset Amount shall be the annual single
life annuity the Participant is entitled to receive under the IBM Personal
Pension Plan and the IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan beginning on the Annuity
Commencement Date.  Notwithstanding the
preceding sentence, in the case of a Choice 1 Employee who elected under Section 17.3
of the IBM Personal Pension Plan to have a Personal Pension Account, the Offset
Amount   

10  

shall be the single life annuity the
Participant would have been entitled to receive under the IBM Personal Pension
Plan and the IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan beginning on the Annuity
Commencement Date if such Participant had elected under Section 17.3 of
the IBM Personal Pension Plan not to have a Personal Pension Account.  For purposes of determining the Offset
Amount, the single life annuity will be calculated based on what the
Participant s benefit under the IBM Personal Pension Plan would have been if
the Participant had not received any distributions from the IBM Personal
Pension Plan before the Annuity Commencement Date.  The Offset Amount shall first be calculated
without regard to any settlement benefit due in connection with the litigation
entitled,  Cooper v. IBM .  The
Offset Amount shall then be increased to reflect such settlement benefit in
accordance with the methodology adopted by the Company on or before December 31,
2008.  

In no event shall the SERP Benefit
(before taking into account the Offset Amount) exceed 65% times Pay times a
fraction the numerator of which is the number of years and completed months of
the Participant s Benefit Service and the denominator of which is 35.  

In no event shall the SERP Benefit be
less than what the SERP Benefit would be if the Participant s Pay, the
Participant s Benefit Service, and the Pay Threshold were equal to the
Participant s Pay, the Participant s Benefit Service, and the Pay Threshold on
the December 31 preceding the Participant s 409A Separation from Service,
or, for a 409A Separation from Service after December 31, 2006, on December 31,
2006.  

B.                                          Reduction
for SERP Benefits Payable Prior to Age 60 and Calculation for Qualifying Leaves   .  

If the Participant s Annuity Commencement
Date is on or after his or her 60th birthday, the Participant s SERP Benefit
when paid in the form of a single life annuity, shall be equal to the SERP
Benefit calculated in accordance with Section A of this ARTICLE 8.  

If the Participant s Annuity Commencement
Date is before his or her 60th birthday, the Participant s SERP Benefit, as
calculated in the form of a single life annuity and before adjustment for the
Offset Amount described in Section A of this ARTICLE 8, shall be reduced
by   of 1% for each month that the Annuity Commencement Date precedes age 60.  

If a Participant incurs a Qualifying
Leave, the amount of the Participant s monthly SERP Benefit shall be calculated
using the same methodology that applies to calculate the amount of a
Participant s Excess Prior Plan Benefit under Section 5.02(d) of that
plan (including the calculation of the Offset Amount), and the resulting
monthly annuity shall be adjusted in the same manner as described in Section 5.02(e) of
that plan.  Generally, the Participant s
SERP Benefit is calculated as of the expected end of a leave and then converted
to an actuarially equivalent annuity beginning on the Participant s Annuity
Commencement Date.  For the avoidance of
doubt, this paragraph regarding Qualifying Leaves does not modify the
eligibility requirements for a SERP Benefit.  

C.                                          Form and
Method of Payment   .  

A Participant may elect to be paid under
any monthly annuity form of payment described in Section 12.2(b)(2),
(c)(1), (c)(2), or (c)(3) of the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  Any such election must be made in the manner
and form prescribed by IBM s   

11  

Executive Compensation Department.  Each form of payment shall be the Actuarial
Equivalent of a single life annuity payable to the Participant in accordance
with this ARTICLE 8.  

D.                                      Time
of Payment   .  

A Participant s SERP
Benefit will be calculated as of his or her Annuity Commencement Date and paid
as of his or her 409A Designated Payment Date. 
However, the first actual payment to a Participant will, under some
circumstances, be delayed and will begin on the Participant s 409A First Issue
Date.  These payment terms are described
below.  

(1)                                      In
General.  

(A)                                  The
Participant s  Annuity Commencement Date  is the
first day of the month following the Participant s 409A Separation from
Service;  

(B)                                    the
Participant s  409A Designated Payment Date  is
the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date; and  

(C)                                    the
Participant s  409A First Issue Date  is the 15th
day of the second month following the Participant s Designated Payment Date,  

except as provided in paragraph (2),
below, with respect to certain 409A Key Employees.  

(2)                                      Six-Month
Delay for 409A Key Employees.  If a
Participant is a 409A Key Employee upon his or her 409A Separation from
Service, the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date remains unchanged, but the
Participant s 409A Designated Payment Date and 409A First Issue Date become the
first day of the seventh month following the Participant s 409A Separation from
Service.  Interest shall be added to each
delayed annuity payment from the date the payment is due through the last day
of the month coincident with or immediately preceding the Participant s 409A
First Issue Date at the  Interest Credit Percentage Rate  in effect on the
Participant s Annuity Commencement Date (as determined under the IBM Personal
Pension Plan).  

E.                                           Effective
Date of Election   .  The Participant may select an annuity form of
payment as described in Section C, above, at any time during the Annuity
Election Period in a form and manner determined by the Plan Administrator.  The death of a survivor annuitant before the
end of the Annuity Election Period automatically revokes any such
election.  The death of a survivor
annuitant on or after the Annuity Election Period does not revoke the Participant s
election. If a Participant does not elect a form of annuity during the Annuity
Election Period, the Participant shall receive the Default Annuity Form to
which the Plan Administrator, in its sole discretion, determines that the
Participant is entitled.  If the
Participant disputes and establishes to the satisfaction of the Plan
Administrator, within 45 days after the end of the Annuity Election Period,
that the Plan Administrator s determination of the Excess Default Annuity Form was
incorrect, the Excess Default Annuity Form shall be changed accordingly
and any underpayments will be paid and any overpayments will be recouped from a
monthly benefit payment in accordance with the Plan Administrator s procedures
for distributing underpayments or recovering overpayments, provided that any
correction is consistent with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(g) (relating
to disputed payments).  

12  

F.                                           Revocation
of Election   .  A Participant may revoke an election he or
she has made under this ARTICLE 8 at any time before the end of the Annuity
Election Period.  In order to be
effective, any such revocation must be received by IBM s Executive Compensation
Department before the end of the Annuity Election Period and must be made in
the manner and form prescribed by IBM s Executive Compensation Department.  A timely revocation of an election shall only
become effective upon receipt by IBM s Executive Compensation Department.  

If a Participant revokes an election of
an alternative form of payment, the Participant s form of payment shall
automatically revert to the default form of payment prescribed by this ARTICLE
8.  After revoking an election, the
Participant may elect an alternative form of payment in accordance with this
ARTICLE 8; however, in order to become effective, the Participant s election of
an alternative form of payment must be received by IBM s Executive Compensation
Department before the end of the Annuity Election Period.  

ARTICLE 9 -
Preretirement Survivor Annuity   

A
preretirement survivor annuity shall be payable only to the Spouse or Domestic
Partner of a Participant who dies before his or her Annuity Commencement Date,
but who, on the date of death, has a Spouse or Domestic Partner and who, on the
date of death, has completed 15 years of Eligibility Service and has attained
age 55, or has completed five years of Eligibility Service and has attained age
60.  The preretirement survivor annuity
shall be the survivor annuity that the Participant s Spouse or Domestic Partner
would have received under the Plan had the Participant terminated employment on
his or her date of death with a 50% joint and survivor annuity in effect in
accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 8. 
The Spouse or Domestic Partner shall begin receiving the preretirement
survivor annuity as of the first day of the month next following the
Participant s date of death.  

ARTICLE 10 - Suspension
of SERP Benefits for Re-Employed Participants   

If
a Participant is re-employed by IBM on or after January 1, 2009, and after
the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date, the Participant s SERP Benefit
with respect to such Annuity Commencement Date is not affected by the
Participant s re-employment.  If a
Participant is re-employed by IBM before January 1, 2009, and the
Participant s benefit was suspended on account of the Participant s re-hire,
when the reemployed Participant subsequently incurs a 409A Separation from
Service, the Participant shall receive a monthly SERP Benefit calculated in
whichever of the following two methods produces the greater monthly SERP
Benefit:  

A.                                       A
SERP Benefit based on (1) the amounts used as the Participant s Benefit
Service, the Participant s Pay and the Pay Threshold to calculate the suspended
SERP Benefit as of the date the Participant previously terminated employment,
and (2) the Offset Amount as of the date the Participant subsequently
terminates employment.  This net SERP
Benefit shall be adjusted for early commencement and form of payment in
accordance with Sections B and C of ARTICLE 8 in the same manner, and be
payable in the same form, as the suspended SERP Benefit; or  

B.                                         The
SERP Benefit the Participant is eligible to receive under the terms of the Plan
in effect on the date the Participant s subsequent employment with IBM ceases,
based on   

13  

the Participant s Pay, Benefit Service
and Eligibility Service and the Pay Threshold as of that date, but reduced by
the Actuarial Equivalent of any SERP Benefit paid before the Participant s
reemployment.  

ARTICLE 11 - Forfeiture   

A.                                        Detrimental
Activities   .    A
Participant shall not engage in any  Detrimental Activity.   For purposes of this ARTICLE 11,  Detrimental
Activity  shall include: (i) the rendering of services for any
organization or engaging directly or indirectly in any business which is or
becomes competitive with IBM, or which organization or business, or the
rendering of services to such organization or business, is or becomes otherwise
prejudicial to or in conflict with the interests of IBM; (ii) the
disclosure to anyone outside IBM, or the use in other than the Company s
business, without prior written authorization from IBM, of any confidential
information or material, as defined in the Company s Agreement Regarding
Confidential Information and Intellectual Property, relating to the business of
IBM, acquired by the Participant either during or after employment with IBM; (iii) the
failure or refusal to disclose promptly and to assign to IBM, pursuant to the
Company s Agreement Regarding Confidential Information and Intellectual
Property, all right, title and interest in any invention or idea, patentable or
not, made or conceived by the Participant during employment by IBM, relating in
any manner to the actual or anticipated business, research or development work
of IBM or the failure or refusal to do anything reasonably necessary to enable
IBM to secure a patent where appropriate in the United States and in other
countries; (iv) activity that results in termination of the Participant s
employment for cause; (v) a violation of any rules, policies, procedures
or guidelines of IBM, including but not limited to the Company s Business
Conduct Guidelines; (vi) any attempt directly or indirectly to induce any
employee of IBM to be employed or perform services elsewhere or any attempt
directly or indirectly to solicit the trade or business of any current or
prospective customer, supplier or partner of IBM; (vii) the Participant
being convicted of, or entering a guilty plea with respect to, a crime, whether
or not connected with IBM; or (viii) any other conduct or act determined
to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of IBM.  

B.                                          Forfeiture
and Rescission   .  Upon termination of employment, and from time
to time thereafter upon request by the Plan Administrator, a Participant shall
certify in a form and manner acceptable to the Plan Administrator that he or
she is in compliance with the terms and conditions of the Plan.  Failure to comply with the provisions of this
ARTICLE 11 prior to termination of employment or prior to receipt of any SERP
Benefit payment hereunder shall cause the forfeiture of all SERP Benefits even
if the failure to comply is not discovered until SERP Benefits have
commenced.  Failure to comply with the
provisions of this ARTICLE 11 after SERP Benefits have commenced hereunder
shall cause any such payments to be rescinded from the point in time when the
conduct which led to the failure to comply occurred.  The Plan Administrator shall notify the
Participant in writing of any such rescission, and within ten days after
receiving a notice of rescission from IBM, the Participant shall pay to IBM in
cash the amount of any payment that has been rescinded in accordance with this
ARTICLE 11.  

14  

ARTICLE
12 - Information For SERP Benefit Calculations   

Any delay in receiving
from a Participant or Beneficiary information requested by the Company s
Executive Compensation Department, including but not limited to information
regarding a Participant s Spouse, Domestic Partner or other factors necessary
for the calculation of SERP Benefits, shall result in the SERP Benefits payable
being based initially on the information then available to IBM s Executive
Compensation Department and the Plan Administrator, and their estimate of any
unavailable information.  If additional
or different information thereafter becomes available to IBM s Executive
Compensation Department or the Plan Administrator, SERP Benefits shall be
adjusted appropriately as determined by the Plan Administrator in accordance
with, and only to the extent permitted by, section 409A of the Code (including
any correction procedure thereunder).  

If
any overpayment of SERP Benefits is made, the Plan Administrator may,
consistent with section 409A of the Code (including any correction procedure
thereunder) recover such overpayment by any means it wishes, in its sole
discretion, including requiring the repayment of any overpaid amount (with a
forfeiture of all future payments being one of the possible remedies for
failure to repay), or offsetting the amount of the overpayment against further
amounts payable to or on account of the person who received the overpayment
until the overpayment has been recovered in full.  

ARTICLE 13 -
Non-Alienation Of SERP Benefits   

No
SERP Benefit payable under the Plan shall be subject to alienation, sale,
transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, lien, levy or like
encumbrance.  No SERP Benefit under the
Plan shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities
of any person entitled to SERP Benefits under the Plan. Notwithstanding the
preceding, the Plan Administrator may withhold any SERP Benefit and use it to
satisfy any debt or other obligation that the Participant has to IBM, but only
to the extent permissible under section 409A of the Code, for example, where
such debt is incurred in the ordinary course of the service relationship
between the Participant and IBM, the entire amount of reduction in any of the
Participant s taxable years does not exceed $5,000, and the reduction is made
at the same time and in the same amount as the debt otherwise would have been
due and collected from the Participant.  

ARTICLE 14 - Withholding
Taxes   

IBM
and the Plan Administrator shall withhold such taxes and make such reports to
governmental authorities as they reasonably believe to be required by law.  

ARTICLE 15 -
Distributions to Minors and Incompetents   

If
the Plan Administrator determines that any Participant or Beneficiary receiving
or entitled to receive SERP Benefits under the Plan is incompetent to care for
his or her affairs, and in the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian
of the property of the incompetent, payments due under the Plan (unless prior
claim thereto has been made by a duly qualified guardian, committee or other
legal representative) may be made to the spouse, parent, brother   

15  

or
sister or other person, including a hospital or other institution, deemed by
the Plan Administrator to have incurred or to be liable for expenses on behalf
of such incompetent.  

In
the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian of the property of a minor,
any minor s share of SERP Benefits under the Plan may be paid to such adult or
adults as in the opinion of the Plan Administrator have assumed the custody and
principal support of such minor.  

The
Plan Administrator, however, in its sole discretion, may require that a legal
guardian for the property of any such incompetent or minor be appointed before
authorizing the payment of SERP Benefits in such situations.  SERP Benefit payments made under the Plan in
accordance with determinations of the Plan Administrator pursuant to this
ARTICLE 15 shall be a complete discharge of any obligation arising under the
Plan with respect to such SERP Benefit payments.  

ARTICLE 16 - No Right to
Employment   

Nothing
herein contained shall be deemed to give any employee the right to be retained
in the service of IBM or to interfere with the right of IBM to discharge any
employee at any time without regard to the effect that such discharge may have
upon the employee under the Plan.  

ARTICLE 17 - Unfunded
Plan   

The
Plan shall be unfunded.  IBM shall not be
required to segregate any assets to provide SERP Benefits, nor shall the Plan
be construed as providing for such segregation, nor shall IBM or the Committee
be deemed to be a trustee of any assets of the Plan.  Any liability of IBM to any Participant or
Beneficiary with respect to SERP Benefits shall be based solely upon any
contractual obligations created by the Plan. 
No such obligation of IBM shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or
other encumbrance or any property of IBM. 
Neither IBM nor the Committee shall be required to give any security or
bond for the performance of any obligation created by the Plan.  

ARTICLE 18 -
Miscellaneous   

A.                                        Construction   .  Unless the contrary is plainly required by
the context, wherever any words are used herein in the masculine gender, they
shall be construed as though they were also used in the female gender, and vice
versa, and wherever any words are used herein in the singular form, they shall
be construed as though they were also used in the plural form, and vice versa.  

B.                                          Severability   .  If any provision of the Plan is held illegal
or invalid for any reason, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect the
remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if
such illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted herein.  

C.                                          Titles
and Headings Not to Control   .  The titles to ARTICLES and the headings of
Sections in the Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference only, and
in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or
headings, shall control.  

16  

D.                                         Complete
Statement of the Plan   .  This document is a complete statement of the
Plan.  The Plan may be amended, modified
or terminated only in writing and then only as provided herein.  

E.                                           Booklets
and Brochures   .  IBM may from time to time issue to
Participants one or more booklets or brochures summarizing the Plan.  In the event of any conflict between the Plan
document and the booklets and brochures, the Plan document shall control.  

F.                                           Section 409A   .  The Plan is intended, and shall be construed,
to comply with section 409A of the Code. 
However, in no event shall the Company, its officers, directors,
employees, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional
tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result
of the Plan s failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code, or as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other applicable
requirements for the deferral of tax.  

ARTICLE 19 - Situs of
Plan; Governing Law   

The
situs of the Plan shall be the State of New York.  The Plan shall be governed by ERISA to the
extent not exempted there from, and to the extent not preempted by ERISA, the
laws of the State of New York, without regard to the choice of law rules of
any jurisdiction.  

17  

APPENDIX A   

TRANSITION RULES   

A.                                       A
Participant who:  

(1)                                      Had
attained his or her Normal Retirement Age or Early Retirement Date or was
within five years of attaining his or her Normal Retirement Age or Early
Retirement Date on June 30, 1999,  

(2)                                      Was
a Regular Employee throughout the period commencing on July 1, 1998 and
ending on July 1, 1999,  

(3)                                      Was
an Executive on June 30, 1999, and  

(4)                                      Had
Pay of at least $160,000 on December 31, 1998,  

shall
receive a SERP Benefit equal to the greater of the SERP Benefit described in
the Plan without regard to the appendices ( Main Plan ) or the SERP Benefit
under the Prior Plan as described in APPENDIX B (without regard to Section F
of ARTICLE 8 of APPENDIX B).  

B.                                         A
Participant who is described in Section A(2), (3) and (4) of
this APPENDIX A, but not Section A(1), shall receive a SERP Benefit equal
to the greater of (1) the SERP Benefit described in the Plan without
regard to the appendices, or (2) the SERP Benefit under the Prior Plan as
described in APPENDIX B, but with such SERP Benefit calculated based on the
Participant s Pension Credit (as described in Section A of ARTICLE 8 of
APPENDIX B) as of the earlier of termination of employment with IBM, or December 31,
2003, and on the Participant s total annual single life annuity (as described
in Section A(ii) of ARTICLE 8 of APPENDIX B) as of the Participant s
Annuity Commencement Date.  

C.                                         A
Participant who is described in Section A or B of this APPENDIX A, who
terminates employment with IBM after June 30, 1999, and who is
subsequently reemployed by IBM shall not be covered under Section A or B
of this APPENDIX A unless such coverage is approved by the officers specified
in Section B(2)(c) of ARTICLE 7.  

D.                                        No
person shall be entitled to a benefit provided under APPENDIX B, except as
provided in Sections A, B, or C of this APPENDIX A.  

E.                                          For
purposes of this APPENDIX A, the SERP Benefit under the Prior Plan shall begin
to be paid at the time determined under ARTICLE 8 of the Main Plan (including
the election timing rules in Sections 8.E. and 8.F.).  In addition, the special calculation for a
Qualifying Leave in Section 8.B of the Main Plan shall apply, using (to
the extent applicable) the early retirement reduction factors in Section 8.B
of APPENDIX B to calculate the Participant s benefit at the expected end of the
leave.  For the avoidance of doubt, this
means that the forms available and the calculation of those forms with respect
to the Appendix B SERP Benefit are determined under Section 8.C of
APPENDIX B.  

18  

APPENDIX B   

IBM Supplemental Executive
Retirement Plan (the  Prior Plan )   

IBM SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE
RETIREMENT PLAN   

(Effective January 1,
1995)  

19  

ARTICLE 1 - Purpose   

International
Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ), a New York corporation, has established
the IBM Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  SERP  or the  Plan ) with
the intention of attracting and retaining executives whose skills and talents
are important to IBM s operations by providing a monthly retirement income that
supplements benefits under the IBM Retirement Plan.  

ARTICLE 2   Definitions   

a.                                           Company
- - IBM and its Domestic Subsidiaries, excluding foreign offices of the Company
except as otherwise provided in these Articles.  

b.                                          Subsidiary
- - a corporation, or other form of business organization, the majority interest
of which is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company.  

c.                                           Domestic
Subsidiary - a Subsidiary organized and existing under the laws of the United
States or any state, territory or possession thereof, provided, however, that
the Plan shall not be deemed to cover the employees of any Domestic Subsidiary
unless so authorized by the chief human resources officer of IBM.  

d.                                          Board
of Directors - the Board of Directors of IBM.  

e.                                           Executive
Compensation and Management Resources Committee (also, the  Committee ) - the
Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of
Directors or such other persons or group as said Board may appoint to serve as
the Committee.  

f.                                             Foreign
Service - Service with a Foreign Subsidiary (i.e., a Subsidiary other than a
Domestic Subsidiary) or with a Foreign Branch (i.e., a branch of the Company or
of a Domestic Subsidiary that operates principally outside the United States, its
territories or possessions).  

g.                                          IBM
Retirement Plan - the retirement plan established by IBM pursuant to a
resolution of its Board of Directors effective December l8, l945, as
amended from time to time.  

20  

h.                                          Regular
Employee (also,  Employee ) - an employee so defined by the IBM Retirement
Plan.  

i.                                              Executive
- - A Regular Employee so classified in the sole discretion of the Company s
chief human resources officer.  

j.                                              Participant
- - an Executive who meets the requirements of ARTICLE 3, or a former Executive
who is accruing or receiving Benefits pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.  

k.                                           Beneficiary
- - a person who is designated by a Participant or by the terms of the Plan to
receive a Benefit under the Plan in respect of a deceased Participant.  A Beneficiary shall not be considered a
Participant by virtue of this definition.  

l.                                              ERISA
- - the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of l974, as amended from time to
time.  

m.                                        Plan
Administrator - a person or a committee appointed pursuant to ARTICLE 4 hereof
which shall be responsible for reporting, record keeping and related
administrative matters under the Plan. 
If a committee is appointed to serve as the Plan Administrator, any one
of the members of the committee may act individually on behalf of the committee
to fulfill the committee s duties.  

n.                                          Continuous
Service - Service as defined in the IBM Retirement Plan except as provided in
ARTICLE 6 hereof; provided that a Participant shall not in any event be considered
to have more than 35 years of Continuous Service hereunder.  

o.                                          Compensation
- - Compensation as defined in the IBM Retirement Plan except that in no event
shall 1989 or 1994 Long-Term Incentive Plan awards or payments or payments
under any successor plan be included in Compensation.  

p.                                          Plan
Year - the calendar year.  

q.                                          Normal
Retirement Age - age 65.  

r.                                             Normal
Retirement Date - the date specified by ARTICLE 7A hereof.  

21  

s.                                           Early
Retirement Date - the date on which a Participant retires from employment with
the Company in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE 7B hereof.  

t.                                             Spouse
- - a person who, according to the laws of the state of a Participant s domicile,
is the Participant s spouse on the earlier of (i) the date of the
Participant s death while employed by the Company or (ii) the Participant s
Annuity Commencement Date.  

u.                                          Actuarial
Equivalent - shall mean a form of payment that is equal in value to another
form of payment, as determined by the Plan Administrator in accordance with the
actuarial assumptions specified by the IBM Retirement Plan.  

v.                                          Annuity
Commencement Date - shall mean the date as of which SERP Benefits are scheduled
to commence.  

w.                                        SERP
Benefit (also,  Benefit ) - a payment or series of payments made or due under
the Plan.  

x.                                            Pay
- - the average of the Participant s annual  Compensation
over (i) the last five years of employment or (ii) the highest
consecutive five calendar years of employment, whichever is greater.  

y.                                          Breakpoint
- - $185,000, subject to such adjustments as may be made from time to time by IBM s
chief human resources officer in his or her sole discretion.  

z.                                            Earnings
Threshold - $150,000, subject to such adjustments as may be made from time to
time by IBM s chief human resources officer in his or her sole discretion.  

ARTICLE 3 - Coverage and
Effect   

This
document states the terms of the Plan as established by Resolution of the Board
of Directors on October 24, 1994 and first effective on January 1,
1995.  Participation is limited to
Executive Level Regular Employees in the United States whose Pay equals or
exceeds the Earnings Threshold.  

22  

ARTICLE 4 - Management
and Administration   

The
Plan may be amended from time to time for any purpose permitted by law or
terminated at any time by written resolution of the Board or the Committee, but
only if the Committee s action is not materially inconsistent with a prior
action of the Board.  The authority to
amend or terminate the Plan shall include the authority to amend the procedure
for amending or terminating the Plan and the authority to amend or terminate
any related instrument or agreement.  

The
following persons and groups of persons shall severally have the authority to
control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan as herein
delineated:  (a) the Board of
Directors, (b) the Executive Compensation and Management Resources
Committee, (c) IBM s chief human resources officer, and (d) the Plan
Administrator and each person on any committee serving as the Plan
Administrator.  Each person or group of
persons shall be responsible for discharging only the duties assigned to it by
the terms of the Plan.  

The
Board of Directors shall be responsible only for designating those persons who
will serve on the Committee and for approving any resolution to terminate the
Plan.  

The
Committee may, pursuant to a duly adopted resolution, delegate to IBM s chief
financial officer, chief human resources officer, or Treasurer, the Plan
Administrator and/or any other officer or employee of IBM, authority to carry
out any decision, directive or resolution of the Committee.  

The
Committee shall appoint one or more executives employed by IBM to serve as Plan
Administrator or as a committee to fulfill the function of Plan
Administrator.  The Plan Administrator
shall have the full power and authority, in its sole discretion: (a) to
promulgate and enforce such rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary or appropriate for the administration of the Plan; (b) to adopt
any amendments to the Plan that are required by law; (c) to interpret the
Plan consistent with the terms and intent thereof; and (d) to resolve any
possible ambiguities, inconsistencies and omissions in the Plan.  All such actions shall be in accordance with
the terms and intent of the Plan and the Plan Administrator shall on a regular
basis report such actions to the Committee. 
Additionally, IBM s chief human resources officer shall appoint and
designate such other IBM employees as may be needed to provide adequate staff
services to the Committee and the Plan Administrator.  

The
Committee and/or the Plan Administrator may engage the services of accountants,
attorneys, actuaries, consultants and such other professional personnel as they
deem necessary or advisable to assist them in fulfilling their responsibilities

23  

under
the Plan.  The Committee, the Plan
Administrator, and their delegates and assistants shall be entitled to act on
the basis of all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions and reports
furnished by such professional personnel.  

ARTICLE 5 - Claims
Procedure   

IBM s
Executive Compensation Department is responsible for advising Participants and
Beneficiaries of their Benefits under the Plan. 
If a Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to
Benefits and has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must submit
a written claim to the Director of Executive Compensation, IBM Corporation, Old
Orchard Road, Armonk, New York l0504. 
The Plan Administrator shall furnish to the Participant or Beneficiary a
written decision setting forth the Plan Administrator s decision. If the Plan
Administrator denies a claim for Benefits in whole or in part, the claimant may
appeal the denial of the claim in writing within 60 days of receiving the Plan
Administrator s written decision.  

ARTICLE 6 - Service
Credit   

A.             Foreign Service   

All Foreign Service by a Regular Employee
who is otherwise eligible for Benefits under the Plan will be deemed for all
Plan purposes, in all respects as Continuous Service with the Company, except
that there shall be deducted from the combined amount payable under the Plan
and the IBM Retirement Plan, any amount paid or payable to the Participant or
Beneficiary arising out of Foreign Service to the extent that credit is given
for such Foreign Service under this ARTICLE 6A and pursuant to any pension,
retirement, severance indemnity, provident fund or other similar plan whether
in the form of installments or lump sum and whether private or sponsored by a
foreign government to the extent not provided by direct contributions made by
the Participant,  

(l)                                         provided
that a Participant with such Foreign Service immediately preceded by Continuous
Service with the Company must, before credit for such Foreign Service is given,
resume employment as a Regular Employee of the Company; and  

(2)                                      further
provided that a Participant with such Foreign Service not immediately preceded
by Continuous Service with the Company must, before credit for such Foreign
Service is given, complete one year of Continuous Service as a Regular Employee
of the Company subsequent to such Foreign Service.  

24  

B.             Service Credit for Leaves of
Absence   

A Participant who commences a leave of
absence granted under IBM s human resources practices then in effect, and who
resumes the status of an Executive Level Regular Employee upon completion of
the leave, shall be deemed, for all Plan purposes, as having been an actively
employed Participant throughout the leave and to have received Compensation
during the leave at the rate in effect immediately before the leave began.  If the Participant does not so resume his or
her status as an Executive Level Regular Employee for at least 30 days for any
reason other than disability or death, the Participant shall be treated as
having severed from service with the Company on the date immediately preceding
the date the leave began (i.e., the last day worked), and neither the
Participant nor the Participant s Beneficiary shall be eligible for a SERP
Benefit.  

C.             Other Service Credit   

IBM s chief executive officer, or other
senior officer designated by the Committee, in his or her sole discretion, may
grant Continuous Service credit to an Executive in excess of actual Continuous
Service subject to such limitations and conditions as the officer considers
appropriate, if the officer deems this to be in the best interests of the
Company.  

ARTICLE 7 - Retirement
Date and Commencement of Benefits   

A.             Normal Retirement Date   

A Participant s Normal Retirement Date is
the last working day of the month in which his or her 65th birthday occurs;
provided that the Participant has completed one year of Continuous Service, and
further provided that, if a Participant was born on the first day of the month,
the Normal Retirement Date shall be the last day of the month immediately
preceding the 65th anniversary of birth.  

B.             Early Retirement Date   

A Participant described in any of the
following paragraphs may retire from employment on an Early Retirement Date
specified in the applicable paragraph below:  

1.                                           A
Participant with 30 years or more of Continuous Service may retire on an Early
Retirement Date at the end of any month,  

25  

2.                                           A
Participant with 15 or more years of Continuous Service may retire on an Early
Retirement Date at the end of any month at or after reaching age 55,  

3.                                           A
Participant with five or more years of Continuous Service who is eligible to
receive Social Security benefits at age 62 may retire on an Early Retirement
Date at the end of any month at or after reaching age 62;  

provided that in order to retire on an
Early Retirement Date a Participant must give the Company at least six months
prior written notice, in a form approved by the Plan Administrator, of his or
her intention to retire early and to have SERP Benefits commence, unless the
Plan Administrator waives such notice requirement.  

C.             Commencement of SERP Benefits   

In addition to all other conditions, in
no event shall payment of SERP Benefits commence unless and until the
Participant applies for such Benefits before his or her Annuity Commencement
Date.  In no event shall any SERP Benefit
be paid under this Plan unless the Participant (1) meets the Plan s
eligibility conditions on the date of his or her retirement, disability, or
death, (2) retires (or dies while eligible to retire) under the terms of
the IBM Retirement Plan, (3) holds an Executive Level position (as
determined by IBM s chief human resources officer in his or her sole
discretion) on the date of his or her retirement or death, and (4) complies
with the requirements imposed by ARTICLE 11 hereof.  

ARTICLE 8 - SERP Benefits   

A.             Normal Retirement Benefit   

The Participant s SERP Benefit, when
expressed as a single life annuity commencing as of the first day of the month
next following the Participant s Normal Retirement Date, shall be equal to
one-twelfth of the Phase-In Percentage (defined below) multiplied by the excess
of (i) the Pension Credit (defined below) over (ii) the total annual
single life annuity benefit at Normal Retirement Age, including the single life
annuity benefit attributable to the Personal Retirement Provision whether such
is paid in annuity form or not, payable monthly to the Participant under the
IBM Retirement Plan or under any pension arrangement between the Company and a
Participant which is payable monthly for life after termination of employment.  

The Phase-In Percentage shall be
determined on the date the Participant retires, and shall not be increased  

26  

thereafter.  If the Participant retires on January 31,
1995, the Phase-In Percentage shall be 27%. 
If the Participant retires after January 31, 1995, the Phase-In Percentage
shall be 27% plus 2% for each succeeding month (3% for the month of December)
up to and including the month of the Participant s retirement, until the
Phase-In Percentage reaches 100% for a Participant retiring on or after December 31,
1997.  The Phase-In Percentage shall in
no event exceed 100%.  

The Pension Credit shall be a single life
annuity equal to the sum of:  

(1) 1.7% of Pay up to the
Breakpoint, plus 2.55% of Pay in excess of the Break Point (if any), multiplied
by the Participant s years of Continuous Service up to a maximum of 20 years,  

(2) 1.3% of Pay multiplied by the
Participant s years of Continuous Service between 20 and 30 years (if any),
plus  

(3) .75% of Pay multiplied by the
Participant s Continuous Service between 30 and 35 years (if any).  

B.             Early SERP Benefit   

If the Participant elects to retire on an
Early Retirement Date with an Annuity Commencement Date on or after his or her
60th birthday, the Participant s SERP Benefit when paid in the form of a single
life annuity, shall be equal to the SERP Benefit calculated in accordance with Section A
of this ARTICLE 8 based on the Participant s years of Continuous Service and
Pay on the Participant s Early Retirement Date.  

If the Participant elects to retire on an
Early Retirement Date with an Annuity Commencement Date before      his or her 60th birthday, the Participant s
SERP Benefit, when paid in the form of a single life annuity, shall be be the
amount determined in accordance with the following table:  

27  

For each month of age falling between the
ages or years shown above, one-twelfth of the difference between the respective
factors should be added.  

The reductions described in this Section 8B
shall be applied to the Pension Credit calculation under ARTICLE 8A prior to
the subtraction of any benefit payable under the IBM Retirement Plan.  The Phase-In Percentage shall be applied to
the net SERP Benefit.  

C.             Form and Method of Payment   

The normal form of payment of the SERP
Benefit for a Participant who is unmarried on his or her Annuity Commencement
Date is a single life annuity for the Participant s life.  

The normal form of payment of the SERP
Benefit for a Participant who is married on his or her Annuity Commencement
Date is a joint and survivor annuity providing an annuity to the Participant
for life, in a monthly amount that is less than that payable under a single
life annuity, and a survivor annuity for the life of the Participant s Spouse
in a monthly amount equal to 50 percent of the monthly amount payable to the
married Participant during his or her lifetime. 
This form of payment, which constitutes a 50% joint and survivor
annuity, shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the single life annuity otherwise
payable to the Participant, based on the age of the Participant and the age of
the Participant s Spouse as of the Annuity Commencement Date.  

A Participant also may elect to be paid
under any alternative form of payment available under the IBM Retirement Plan
except for the Early Retirement Level Income Option.  Any such election must be made in the manner
and form prescribed by IBM s Executive Compensation Department which may, in
certain instances, require the consent of the Participant s Spouse to the
alternative  

28  

form of payment.  Each alternative form of payment shall be the
Actuarial Equivalent of the single life annuity payable to the Participant in
accordance with this ARTICLE 8.  

Payment of the SERP Benefit shall be made
monthly as of the first day of the month beginning with the month following the
month in which the Participant retires from employment with the Company.  

D.                                         Effective
Date of Election   

Any election under this ARTICLE 8 shall
be effective on the later of the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date or 30
days after IBM s Executive Compensation Department receives the election.  The death of a survivor annuitant before the
Participant s Annuity Commencement Date automatically revokes any such
election.  The death of a survivor annuitant
on or after the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date does not revoke the
Participant s election.  

E.                                           Revocation
of Election   

A Participant may revoke an election he
or she has made under this ARTICLE 8 at any time before the Participant s
Annuity Commencement Date.  In order to
be effective, any such revocation must be received by IBM s Executive
Compensation Department before the Annuity Commencement Date and must be made
in the manner and form prescribed by IBM s Executive Compensation Department.  A timely revocation of an election shall only
become effective upon  receipt by IBM s
Executive Compensation Department.  

If a Participant revokes an election of
an alternative form of payment, the Participant s form of payment shall automatically
revert to the normal form of payment prescribed by this ARTICLE 8.  After revoking an election, the Participant
may elect an alternative form of payment in accordance with this ARTICLE 8;
however, in order to become effective, the Participant s election of an alternative
form of payment (other than the normal form of payment) must be received by IBM s
Executive Compensation Department before the Participant s Annuity Commencement
Date.  A timely election shall become
effective as of the later of the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date or 30 days
after IBM s Executive Compensation Department receives the election.  

F.              SERP Benefits for Disabled
Participants   

A Participant who (i) becomes
totally and permanently disabled (as determined in accordance with the terms of
the IBM Long Term Disability Plan) after becoming eligible  

29  

to retire hereunder and while at
Executive Level, (ii)remains so disabled until Normal Retirement Age, and (iii) receives
benefits under the IBM Long Term Disability Plan, shall be eligible to receive
a SERP Benefit upon reaching Normal Retirement Age, notwithstanding his or her
ineligibility for that Benefit under other provisions of the Plan.  

The Annuity Commencement Date for such
disabled Participant shall be his or her Normal Retirement Date. The disabled
Participant s SERP benefit shall be based on the Participant s Pay and
Continuous Service on the date the Participant s IBM Sickness and Accident
Income Plan benefits cease.  

ARTICLE 9 -
Preretirement Spousal Annuity   

A
preretirement spousal annuity shall be payable to the Spouse of a Participant
who dies before his or her Annuity Commencement Date, but who, on the date of
death, is both married and eligible to retire immediately hereunder.  The preretirement spousal annuity shall be
the survivor annuity that the Participant s Spouse would have received under
the Plan had the Participant retired on his or her date of death with a 50
percent joint and survivor annuity in effect in accordance with the provisions
of ARTICLE 8 hereof.  In no event shall
the preretirement spousal annuity be payable to anyone other than the
Participant s Spouse on the date of the Participant s death.  

ARTICLE 10 - Suspension
of Benefits for Reemployed Retired Participants   

If
a retired Participant is reemployed by the Company, any SERP Benefits otherwise
payable to the Participant shall be suspended during the period of
reemployment.  If the reemployed
Participant subsequently completes one year of Continuous Service and
retires from the Company, the Participant shall be eligible for SERP Benefits
under the terms of the Plan in effect on the date the Participant s employment
with the Company ceases, based on the Participant s Pay and Continuous Service
as of that date, but reduced by the Actuarial Equivalent of any Benefits paid
before the Participant s reemployment. 
If the reemployed Participant again retires without having completed one
year of Continuous Service during his or her period of reemployment, the SERP
Benefits being paid to the Participant immediately before his or her
reemployment shall resume, without adjustment, immediately following his or her
retirement.  

30  

ARTICLE 11 - Forfeiture   

A.             Competitive or Prejudicial
Conduct   

A Participant shall not render services
for any organization or engage directly or indirectly in any business which, in
the judgment of the chief executive officer of the Company or other senior
officer designated by the Committee, is or becomes competitive with the Company,
or which organization or business, or the rendering of services to such
organization or business, is or becomes otherwise prejudicial to or in conflict
with the interests of the Company.  For a
Participant whose employment has terminated, the judgment of the chief executive
officer shall be based on the Participant s position and responsibilities while
employed by the Company, the Participant s post-employment responsibilities and
position with the other organization or business, the extent of past, current
and potential completion or conflict between the Company and the other organization
or business, the effect on the Company s customers, suppliers and competitors
of the Participant assuming the post-employment position, the guidelines established
in the then current edition of IBM s booklet,  Business Conduct Guidelines ,
and such other considerations as are deemed relevant given the applicable facts
and circumstances.  A Participant who has
retired shall be free, however, to purchase as an investment or otherwise, stock
or other securities of such organization or business so long as they are listed
upon a recognized securities exchange or traded over-the-counter, and such
investment does not represent a substantial investment to the Participant or a
greater than 10 percent equity interest in the organization or business.  

B.             Disclosure of Confidential
Information   

A Participant shall not, without prior
written authorization from the Company, disclose to anyone outside the Company,
or use in other than the Company s business, any confidential information or
material, as defined in the Company s Agreement Regarding Confidential
Information and Intellectual Property, related to the business of the Company,
acquired by the Participant either during or after employment with the Company.

C.             Disclosure and Assignment of
Rights   

A Participant, pursuant to the Company s
Agreement Regarding Confidential Information and Intellectual Property shall
disclose promptly and assign to the Company all right, title, and interest in
any invention or idea, patentable or not, made or conceived by the Participant during
employment by the Company, relating in any manner  

31  

to the actual or anticipated business,
research, or development work of the Company and shall do anything reasonably
necessary to enable the Company to secure a patent where appropriate in the
United States and in other countries.  

D.             Forfeiture and Rescission   

Upon retirement, and from time to time
thereafter upon request by the Committee, the Participant shall certify on a
form acceptable to the Committee that he or she is in compliance with the terms
and conditions of the Plan. Failure to comply with the provisions of Section A,
B, or C of this ARTICLE prior to retirement or receipt of any Benefit payment
hereunder shall cause the forfeiture of all SERP Benefits even if the failure
to comply is not discovered until Benefits have commenced.  Failure to comply with the provisions of Section A,
B, and C of this ARTICLE after SERP Benefits have commenced hereunder shall cause
any such payments to be rescinded from the point in time when the conduct which
led to the failure to comply occurred. 
The Plan Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing of any
such rescission, and within ten days after receiving a notice of rescission
from the Company, the Participant shall pay to the Company in cash the amount of any payment that has been
rescinded in accordance with this ARTICLE.  

ARTICLE 12 - Information for Benefits Calculations   

A.             Incomplete or Incorrect
Information   

Any delay in receiving from a Participant
or Beneficiary information requested by the Company s Executive Compensation
Department, including but not limited to information regarding a Participant s
Spouse or other factors necessary for the calculation of Benefits under the
Plan, shall result in the Benefits payable being based initially on the
information then available to IBM s Executive Compensation Department and the
Plan Administrator, and their estimate of any unavailable information.  If additional or different information thereafter
becomes available to IBM s Executive Compensation Department or the Plan
Administrator, Benefits shall be adjusted appropriately as determined by the
Plan Administrator.  

B.             Overpayments   

If any overpayment of Benefits is made
under the Plan, the amount of the overpayment may be set off against further amounts
payable to or on account of the person who received the overpayment until the
overpayment has been   

32  

recovered in full.  The foregoing remedy is not intended to be
exclusive.  

ARTICLE 13 - Alienation
of Benefits   

No
Benefit payable under the Plan shall be subject to alienation, sale, transfer,
assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, lien, levy or like
encumbrance.  No Benefit under the Plan
shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any
person entitled to Benefits under the Plan.  

ARTICLE 14 - Withholding
Taxes   

The
Company and the Plan Administrator shall withhold such taxes and make such
reports to governmental authorities as they reasonably believe to be required
by law.  

ARTICLE 15 -
Distributions to Minors and Incompetents   

If
the Plan Administrator determines that any Participant or Beneficiary receiving
or entitled to receive Benefits under the Plan is incompetent to care for his
or her affairs, and in the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian of
the property of the incompetent, payments due under the Plan (unless prior
claim thereto has been made by a duly qualified guardian, committee or other
legal representative) may be made to the spouse, parent, brother or sister or
other person, including a hospital or other institution, deemed by the Plan
Administrator to have incurred or to be liable for expenses on behalf of such
incompetent.  

In
the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian of the property of a minor,
any minor s share of Benefits under the Plan may be paid to such adult or
adults as in the opinion of the Plan Administrator have assumed the custody and
principal support of such minor.  

The
Plan Administrator, however, in its sole discretion, may require that a legal
guardian for the property of any such incompetent or minor be appointed before
authorizing the payment of Benefits in such situations.  Benefit payments made under the Plan in
accordance with determinations of the Plan Administrator pursuant to this ARTICLE
15 shall be a complete discharge of any obligation arising under the Plan with
respect to such Benefit payments.  

33  

ARTICLE 16 - No Right to
Employment   

Nothing herein contained
shall be deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in the service of
the Company or to interfere with the right of the Company to discharge any
employee at any time without regard to the effect that such discharge may have
upon the employee under the Plan.  

ARTICLE 17 - Unfunded
Plan   

The
Plan shall be unfunded.  The Company
shall not be required to segregate any assets to provide Benefits, nor shall
the Plan be construed as providing for such segregation, nor shall the Company
or the Committee be deemed to be a trustee of any assets of the Plan.  Any liability of the Company to any
Participant or Beneficiary with respect to SERP Benefits shall be based solely
upon any contractual obligations created by the Plan.  No such obligation of the Company shall be
deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance or any property of the
Company.  Neither the Company nor the
Committee shall be required to give any security or bond for the performance of
any obligation created by the Plan.  

ARTICLE 18 -
Miscellaneous   

A.             Construction   

Unless the contrary is plainly required
by the context, wherever any words are used herein in the masculine  gender, they shall be construed as though they
were also used in the female gender, and vice versa, and wherever any words are
used herein in the singular form, they shall be construed as though they were
also used in the plural form, and vice versa.  

B.             Severability   

If any provision of the Plan is held
illegal or invalid for any reason, such illegality or invalidity shall not affect
the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced
as if such illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted herein.  

C.             Titles and Headings Not to
Control   

The titles to ARTICLES and the headings
of Sections in the Plan are placed herein for convenience of reference only, and
in the event of any conflict, the text of the Plan, rather than such titles or
headings, shall control.   

34  

D.             Complete Statement of Plan   

This document is a complete statement of
the Plan.  The Plan may be amended,
modified or terminated only in writing and then only as provided herein.  

E.              Booklets and Brochures   

The Company shall from time to time issue
to Participants one or more booklets or brochures summarizing the Plan. In the
event of any conflict between the Plan document and the booklets and brochures,
the Plan document shall control.  

ARTICLE 19 - Situs of
Plan; Governing Law   

The
situs of the Plan shall be the State of New York.  The Plan shall be governed by ERISA, and to
the extent not preempted by ERISA, the law of the State of New York.  

35  

APPENDIX C   

Heritage PwCC Partner Plan   

ARTICLE C1 - Purpose   

This
APPENDIX C, which is effective October 1, 2002, describes the SERP Benefit
for a Regular Employee who is an Executive, as the term Executive is defined in
ARTICLE C2.  

ARTICLE C2 - Definitions   

For
purposes of this APPENDIX C, capitalized terms shall have the same meaning as
they do in ARTICLE 2, except the following terms shall have the following
meanings:  

a.                                           Benefit
Service - an Executive s Continuous Service that occurs on or after October 1,
2002, while a Regular Employee or a Leave of Absence Employee, and while
accruing benefits under the IBM Personal Pension Plan, rounded to the next
completed month, except that Benefit Service shall not exceed 20 years minus
the number of years of Partner Service, and shall not include periods of
Continuous Service that occur prior to the latest date of hire or rehire with
IBM.  

b.                                          Continuous
Service   shall have the same meaning as it does in ARTICLE 2, except that
Continuous Service shall include Partner Service.  

c.                                           Eligibility
Service - shall have the same meaning as it does in ARTICLE 2, except that
Eligibility Service shall include Partner Service.  

d.                                          Executive
  an individual who is listed in Exhibit I, which exhibit is maintained in
the office of the Director of Executive Compensation of IBM.  Exhibit I contains a list of individuals
who were partners with PwC immediately prior to October 1, 2002, and who
became employed by IBM as of October 1, 2002.  

e.                                           Offset
Amount - the annual single life annuity described in Section A of ARTICLE
C5.  

f.                                             Pay
  shall have the same meaning as it does in ARTICLE 2, except that Compensation
and Continuous Service earned before October 1, 2002 shall not be
considered.  

g.                                          Partner
Service   an Executive s service while a partner with PwC prior to October 1,
2002, as determined based on the methodology for calculating Benefit Service
under the IBM Personal Pension Plan and based on the date the Executive became
a partner at PwC, as provided to IBM by PwC.  

h.                                          PwC
  PricewaterhouseCoopers.  

i.                                              Target
Percentage   a percentage that is determined based on age (to a maximum of 50
years) plus Partner Service (to a maximum of 20 years), as shown below:  

36  

ARTICLE C3 - Coverage
and Effect   

This
Appendix C describes the SERP Benefit for a Regular Employee who is an
Executive, as the term Executive is defined in ARTICLE C2.  The provisions of ARTICLES 2 through 19 shall
apply in determining the SERP Benefit, except as otherwise provided in ARTICLES
C2, C4, C5 and C6.  

ARTICLE C4 - Eligibility
for SERP Benefits   

Notwithstanding
ARTICLE 7, a Participant shall be eligible for a SERP Benefit only if the
Participant is an Executive on his or her date of termination with IBM, a
forfeiture under ARTICLE 11 does not occur, and the Participant s employment
with IBM terminates for any reason other than cause (i) on a date after
the Participant has completed five years of Eligibility Service and has
attained age 50, or (ii) solely with respect to the amount shown in Exhibit II,
which exhibit is maintained in the office of the Director of Executive
Compensation of IBM, on a date when such amount is greater than $0.  

ARTICLE C5 - SERP
Benefits   

A.                                        Formula   .  

Notwithstanding Section A of ARTICLE
8, a Participant s annual SERP Benefit, when expressed as a single life annuity
commencing as of the first day of the month next following the Participant s
409A Separation from Service, shall equal 1.5% times Pay times the number of
years of Benefit Service (but not to exceed 20 years minus the number of years
of Partner Service) times the Participant s Target Percentage.  

There shall be
offset from the amount described in the preceding paragraph, an Offset
Amount.  The Offset Amount shall equal (1) below
if a Participant has a 409A Separation from Service after December 31,
2007, and the sum of (1) and (2) below if a Participant has a 409A
Separation from Service before January 1, 2008  :  

(1)  The annual
single life annuity the Participant is entitled to receive under the IBM
Personal Pension Plan and the IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan beginning on the
Annuity Commencement Date.  For this
purpose, the single life annuity will be   

37  

calculated based on what the Participant s
benefit under the IBM Personal Pension Plan and IBM Excess Personal Pension
Plan would have been if the Participant had not received any distributions from
such plans before the Annuity Commencement Date, and this offset shall first be
calculated without regard to any settlement benefit due in connection with the
litigation entitled,  Cooper v. IBM ; the Offset Amount shall then be
increased to reflect such settlement benefit in accordance with the methodology
adopted by the Company on or before December 31, 2008; plus  

(2)  The annual
single life annuity that would be described in Section A(1) of this ARTICLE
C5 if the Pay Credit Percentage described in Section 11.3(d) of the
IBM Personal Pension Plan was 3% instead of 5%.  

For purposes of calculating the Offset
Amount in the case of a 409A Separation from Service on account of a Qualifying
Leave, the Participant s benefits under the IBM Personal Pension Plan and the
IBM Excess Personal Pension Plan shall be calculated using the same methodology
that applies to calculate the amount of a Participant s Excess Prior Plan
Benefit under Section 5.02(d) of the IBM Excess Personal Pension
Plan.  

A Participant who is listed in Exhibit II
shall receive an additional annual single life annuity equal to the amount
described in Exhibit II, which amount is dependent on the Participant s
Annuity Commencement Date, times the Participant s Target Percentage.  If the Participant s Annuity Commencement
Date is after December 31, 2007, the amount described in Exhibit II
shall be multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the Participant s
Benefit Service (disregarding the 20 year cap) as of December 31, 2007, and
the denominator of which is the sum of the numerator and the amount of
Continuous Service the Participant earns after December 31, 2007 and
before the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date.  For Annuity Commencement Dates not listed in Exhibit II,
linear interpolation shall be used.  

B.             Reduction for SERP Benefits
Payable Prior to Age 55 .  

Notwithstanding Section B of ARTICLE
8, if the Participant s Annuity Commencement Date is on or after his or her
55th birthday, the Participant s SERP Benefit when paid in the form of a single
life annuity, shall be equal to the SERP Benefit calculated in accordance with Section A
of this ARTICLE C5.  

If the Participant s Annuity Commencement
Date is before his or her 55th birthday, the Participant s SERP Benefit, as calculated
in the form of a single life annuity and before offsetting the Offset Amount
described in Section A of this ARTICLE C5 and before adding the additional
amount described in Exhibit II, shall be reduced by 2/3 of 1% for each
month that the Annuity Commencement Date precedes age 55; however, if a
Participant is eligible to receive a SERP Benefit on his or her Annuity
Commencement Date without regard to this sentence and the Participant incurs a
Qualifying Leave, the amount of the Participant s monthly SERP Benefit shall be
calculated using the same methodology that applies to calculate the amount of a
Participant s Excess Prior Plan Benefit under Section 5.02(d) of that
plan, and the resulting monthly annuity shall be adjusted in the same manner as
described in Section 5.02(e) of that plan.  

38  

ARTICLE C6 -
Preretirement Survivor Annuity   

Notwithstanding
ARTICLE 9, a preretirement survivor annuity shall be payable only to the Spouse
or Domestic Partner of a Participant who dies before his or her Annuity
Commencement Date, but who, on the date of death, has a Spouse or Domestic
Partner and who, on the date of death, has (i) completed five years of
Eligibility Service and has attained age 50, or (ii) solely with respect
to the amount shown in Exhibit II, has an amount that is greater than $0.
The preretirement survivor annuity shall be the survivor annuity that the
Participant s Spouse or Domestic Partner would have received under the Plan had
the Participant terminated employment on his or her date of death with a 50%
joint and survivor annuity in effect in accordance with the provisions of
ARTICLE 8.  The Spouse or Domestic
Partner shall begin receiving the preretirement survivor annuity as of the
first day of the month next following the Participant s date of death.  

39  

EXHIBITS I and II   

[Employee Data
Redacted]  

40  

APPENDIX D   

   IBM SECTION 409A UMBRELLA DOCUMENT   

For purposes of plans of   International Business
Machines or any member of its controlled group as determined under  414(b) or
(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively,  IBM ) that are subject to
  409A of the Internal Revenue Code (   409A ), any benefit subject
to   409A that is paid on account of a separation from service shall be
paid on account of a  409A Separation from Service,  as defined below.  In addition, for purposes of applying the
six-month delay described in   409A(a)(2)(B)(i), a  specified employee  is
a 409A Key Employee, as defined below.  

1.     The term   409A Key Employee   means, for each
12-consecutive-month period beginning on any April 1 that occurs after January 1,
2008 (an  effective period ), an individual who is a  specified employee  of
IBM (within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(i)) within the
12-consecutive-month period ending on the December 31 immediately
preceding the start of such effective period. 
For purposes of the preceding sentence,  specified employees  include:  

(a)                                         each employee of IBM on IBM s U.S. payroll, not to exceed 50, who is
designated by IBM as an officer and whose pay (as defined under   Treas. Reg.
  1.415(c)-2(d)(4)) exceeds the      dollar limitation under   416(i)(1)(A)(i) of
the Internal Revenue Code (   416 Pay Limit  plus  

(b)                                         the highest paid Band A executives (as defined by   IBM s rules and regulations)   on IBM s U.S. payroll whose pay exceeds the   416 Pay Limit (where
pay is defined under   Treas. Reg.   1.415(c)-2(d)(4)), such that, when
combined with the employees in subsection (a) (designated officers), there
are no more than 50  specified employees  on IBM s U.S. payroll; plus  

(c)                                         if the total number of individuals designated as  specified employees 
under subsections (a) and (b) is less than 50, the highest paid other
employees on IBM s U.S. payroll (where pay is defined under   Treas. Reg.  
1.415(c)-2(d)(4)), such that, when combined with the employees in subsections (a) (designated
officers) and (b) (Band A executives), there are no more than 50  specified
employees  on IBM s U.S. payroll; plus  

(d)                                         each employee of IBM who:  (1) is
entitled to a benefit that is subject to   409A, (2) is not on a U.S.
payroll, and (3) is considered to be an officer for purposes of
identifying  specified employees  under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(i).  

2.     The term   409A Separation from Service   means,
effective January 1, 2009, a separation from service within the meaning of
Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h), which shall include, but not be limited to, the
following events:  

(a)                                         A  termination
of employment,  as that term is applied for purposes of the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan (except to the extent that an earlier event associated with such
termination of employment is described in subsections (b) through (d),
below);  

(b)                                         The start of a
bridge leave or a pre-retirement planning leave;  

(c)                                         A permanent
reduction in services to no more than 20% of the average level of services
performed over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period of
services if less);  

(d)                                         The six-month
anniversary of a leave of absence, when no services are performed (including
paid and unpaid leave and including disability leave or any combination
thereof) other than a military leave.  

From
January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, a  409A Separation from
Service  means a good faith interpretation of  separation from service,  within
the meaning of   409A(a)(2)(A)(i), and includes the following rules:  

i.                                                A Participant
who is on a bridge leave or a pre-retirement planning leave as of December 31,
2007, shall have a 409A Separation from Service as of December 31, 2007;  

ii.                                            If a Participant   

(1)                                      during 2008 has
an event described in paragraph (c) or has a six-month anniversary
described in paragraph (d),  

(2)                                      does not
otherwise incur a separation from service prior to December 31, 2008, and  

(3)                                      has not
returned to active employment (or, in the case of an event described in (c), to
full schedule employment) on or before December 31, 2008,  

the
Participant shall have a 409A Separation from Service as of December 31,
2008.  

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 a2189817zex-10_3.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.3

Exhibit 10.3   

Note   :  This exhibit reflects amendments to clarify
the administrative structure of the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan.  

IBM EXCESS 401(k) PLUS PLAN   

Effective January 1, 2008  

  (except as
otherwise provided herein)  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

Exhibit A  

2  

Exhibit A  

3  

ARTICLE I. INTRODUCTION   

1.01.       Name
of Plan and Effective Date.    The IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the  EDCP )
is hereby renamed and restated as the  IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan  (the  Plan ).
The Plan is effective as of January 1, 2008 (the  Effective Date ), except
as provided in Section 1.04, below, with respect to amounts earned before
the Effective Date. In addition, the EDCP plan document in effect prior to the
Effective Date (the  EDCP document ) continues to govern the portion of the
Plan consisting of  deferred shares  (as defined in the EDCP document). The
EDCP document is Appendix A (and will be attached when its restatement is first
adopted after the Effective Date).  

1.02.       Purpose.    The purpose of the Plan is
to attract and retain employees by providing a means for employees to defer
their pay and obtain matching and other company contributions outside of the
IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is subject to certain limits under the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ). All Plan benefits are
paid out of the general assets of the Company (as defined in ARTICLE II).  

1.03.       Legal Status.    The Plan
consists of two separate plans:  

(a) An unfunded
deferred compensation plan for a select group of management or highly compensated
employees (within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3), 401(a)(1), 4021(b)(6) of
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA )), except
to the extent that the Plan provides benefits as described in subsection (b),
below; and  

(b) An  excess
benefit plan  (within the meaning of Section 3(36) of ERISA), to the
extent the Plan provides benefits that Section 415 of the Code prevents   the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan   from providing.  

1.04.       Section 409A.   

(a)  Grandfathered Amounts under Section 409A.  Benefits
earned and vested under the EDCP before January 1, 2005, as adjusted for   earnings,
gains, or losses on those benefits   ( Grandfathered Amounts ) are treated as
grandfathered for purposes of Section 409A of the Code. Grandfathered
Amounts are subject to the terms of the EDCP in effect on October 3, 2004,
except as provided herein or in Appendix A. For recordkeeping purposes, the
Company will account separately for Grandfathered Amounts.  

(b)  Non-Grandfathered Amounts.  With respect to benefits under
the Plan (including benefits earned before the Effective Date) other than
Grandfathered Amounts ( Non-Grandfathered Amounts ), the Plan is intended, and
shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code. Non-Grandfathered Amounts earned before the Effective Date were subject,
before  

the Effective Date, to the terms of the EDCP, as
amended, including, for example, the requirement that any payment to a 409A Key
Employee (as defined in ARTICLE II) that would otherwise be paid in the first
six months after a separation from service was instead paid in the seventh
month. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Section 1.04, in
no event shall the Company, its officers, directors, employees, parents,
subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional tax, interest, or
penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of the Plan s
failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, or as a
result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other applicable requirements for
the deferral of tax.  

2  

ARTICLE
II.     DEFINITIONS   

The
following words and phrases as used herein have the following meanings unless a
different meaning is required by the context:  

401(k) Plan      means the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan as in effect from time to time, including, with respect to periods before
the Effective Date, the IBM Savings Plan and any other predecessor to the IBM
401(k) Plus Plan, as applicable.  

409A Key Employee      has the meaning described
in the IBM Section 409A Umbrella
Document, which is Appendix B.  

409A Separation from Service      has the meaning described
in the IBM Section 409A Umbrella
Document    attached to this
Plan as Appendix B.  

Account      means a record-keeping account maintained
for a Participant under the Plan. A Participant s Accounts under the Plan
include, where applicable, a Pre-2005 Elective Deferral Account, a Pre-2005
Company Account, a Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account, and a Post-2004 Company
Account.  

Actively Employed      means actively employed by
the Company, including on a leave of absence other than a bridge leave, a
pre-retirement planning leave, or a leave during which the individual is
receiving LTD Benefits.  

Automatic Contribution      has the
meaning provided in Section 5.01.  

Base Pay      means an Employee s base pay (determined
under the 401(k) Plan) from the Company for employment while on a U.S.
payroll, determined before reduction for deferrals under the Plan or the 401(k) Plan
or for amounts not included in income on account of salary reductions under
Code section 125 or 132(f). However, Base Pay does not include any pay during a
Deferral Period that is paid after an Employee s 409A Separation from Service
(except amounts paid in the pay period in which the Employee s 409A Separation
from Service occurs and Rehire Pay).  

Beneficiary      means a person who is designated by a
Participant or by the terms of the Plan to receive a benefit under the Plan by
reason of the Participant s death. Each Participant s Beneficiary under the
Plan shall be the person or persons designated as the Participant s Beneficiary
under the Plan, in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator. If
no such beneficiary designation is in effect under the Plan at the time of the
Participant s death, or if no designated beneficiary under the Plan survives
the Participant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the person or persons
determined to be the Participant s beneficiary under the 401(k) Plan
(including the default beneficiary rules under the 401(k) Plan, if no
beneficiary is designated under that plan).  

Board      means the Board of Directors of IBM.  

3  

Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time. All citations to sections of the Code are to such sections
as they may from time to time be amended or renumbered.  

Combined Base Pay Election      has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(a)(1).  

Company      means International Business Machines
Corporation ( IBM ), a New York corporation having its principal place of
business at Armonk, New York, and its Domestic Subsidiaries that are
participating employers in the 401(k) Plan.  

Company Contributions      means amounts credited to a
Participant s Post-2004 Company Account, including Matching Contributions,
Match Maximizer Contributions, Automatic Contributions, Transition Credits,
Discretionary Awards, Section 415 Excess Credits, and any similar credits
under the EDCP.  

Deferral Election      means an Eligible Employee s
election to defer Base Pay or Performance Pay under Section 4.01.  

Deferral Period      means a period that begins
on or after the Effective Date that (a) starts on January 1 and ends
on the next following December 31 for Base Pay and (b) starts on April 1
and ends on the next following March 31 for Performance Pay.  

Discretionary Award      means a credit to a
Participant s Account as described in Section 5.04.  

Domestic Subsidiary      means a  Domestic
Subsidiary  as defined in the 401(k) Plan.  

EDCP      means the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
in effect before the Effective Date.  

Effective Date      means January 1, 2008.  

Elective Deferrals      means deferrals of Base Pay
or Performance Pay credited to the Participant s Post-2004 Elective Deferral
Account pursuant to a Participant s election under Section 4.01(a) or
any similar provision of the EDCP.  

Eligible Employee      means, with respect to a
Plan Year, an Employee who is eligible to make Elective Deferrals or to receive
Company Contributions during the Plan Year pursuant to ARTICLE III.  

Employee      means an employee of the Company who is
eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan and is not a Supplemental
Employee. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an individual who, on or after January 1,
2009, was an Employee and becomes a Supplemental Employee or begins receiving
LTD Benefits before or during a Deferral Period with respect to which the
individual has a valid, irrevocable Deferral Election and  

4  

without
first incurring a 409A Separation from Service shall continue to be considered
to be an Employee solely for purposes of the individual s eligibility during
such Deferral Period to make Elective Deferrals (but not for purposes of the
individual s eligibility for any Company Contribution). For example, an
individual who is   receiving
LTD Benefits   is not eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan
(as in effect on the Effective Date) and is therefore not an Employee, except
that if the individual has not incurred a 409A Separation from Service, the
Employee s Elective Deferrals shall continue pursuant to any irrevocable
Deferral Election.  

ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended from time to time.  

Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay      means, for each payroll
period that ends after an Eligible Employee reaches his or her Program
Eligibility Date, the excess, if any, of (A) the Eligible Employee s
eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan for such payroll period
determined without regard to the Pay Limit, over (B) the Eligible Employee s
eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan during such payroll period
determined taking into account the Pay Limit. Solely for purposes of each
payroll period in Plan Year 2008:  

(a)              Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay of an Eligible Employee who is an executive includes Performance Pay that
is paid during the   payroll   period and is
not eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan minus Elective Deferrals
made with respect to such Performance Pay; and  

(b)             solely for purposes of
calculating Match Maximizer Contributions, Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay does
not include Growth Driven Profit-Sharing amounts   and employee sales or services incentives that are
paid in the first quarter of 2008   (however, these amounts are
Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay for purposes of calculating Automatic
Contributions and Transition Credits).  

Grandfathered Amounts      has the meaning provided in
Section 1.04(a).  

IBM      means International Business Machines Corporation,
any predecessor, or any successor by merger, purchase, or otherwise.  

LTD Benefits      means   benefits under the Company s long-term
disability plan.  

Matching Contribution      has the meaning provided in
Section 4.02(a).  

Match Maximizer Contribution      has the meaning provided in
Section 4.02(b).  

Non-Grandfathered Amounts      has the meaning provided in
Section 1.04(b).  

Participant      means an individual who has a positive
balance in an Account under the Plan.  

5  

Pay Limit      means, for a Plan Year, the limit on
compensation that may be taken into account during such Plan Year under a
tax-qualified plan as determined under Code Section 401(a)(17).  

Performance Pay      means an Employee s
performance pay (determined under the 401(k) Plan) from the Company for
employment while on a U.S. payroll, determined before reduction for deferrals
under the Plan or the 401(k) Plan or for amounts not included in income on
account of salary reductions under Code section 125 or 132(f). However,
Performance Pay does not include any pay during a Deferral Period that is paid
after an Employee s 409A Separation from Service (except amounts paid in the
pay period in which the Employee s 409A Separation from Service occurs and
Rehire Pay). Notwithstanding this definition, Performance Pay that is paid in
the first quarter of 2008 is subject to the following special rules:  

(a)              such
Performance Pay does not include   Growth Driven Profit-Sharing and employee sales or
services incentives;  

(b)             such Performance Pay
includes incentive pay (such as Annual Incentive Plan payments or sales or
services incentives) that is paid to an executive; and  

(c)              an Employee s deferral election with respect to such Performance Pay is
subject to the advance election and deferral percentage limit terms of the
EDCP.  

Plan      means this IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan.  

Plan Administrator      means the VP HR with
functional responsibilities for IBM s benefit programs, or such other person or
committee appointed pursuant to ARTICLE IX, which shall be responsible for
reporting, recordkeeping, and related administrative requirements. If appointed
as a committee, any one of the members of the committee may act individually on
behalf of the committee to fulfill the committee s duties.  

Plan Year      means the calendar year.  

Pre-2005 Accounts      means a Participant s
Pre-2005 Company Account and Pre-2005 Elective Deferral Account.  

Pre-2005 Company Account      means, for any Participant,
the aggregate of the company contributions (including any discretionary awards)
credited to the Participant under the EDCP before January 1, 2005, to the
extent such contributions were vested as of December 31, 2004, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on those contributions, but reduced for any
prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

Pre-2005 Elective Deferral Account      means, for any Participant,
the aggregate of the elective deferrals credited to the Participant under the
EDCP before January 1, 2005, and earnings, gains, or losses credited on
those elective deferrals, but reduced for any prior distribution under the EDCP
or the Plan.  

6  

Post-2004 Accounts      means a Participant s
Post-2004 Company Account and Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account.  

Post-2004 Company Account      means, for any Participant,
the aggregate of (a) the Company Contributions credited to the Participant
under the EDCP or the Plan on or after January 1, 2005, plus (b) any
such contributions credited under the EDCP before January 1, 2005, to the
extent such contributions were not vested as of December 31, 2004, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on amounts described in (a) and (b),
but reduced for any prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account      means, for any
Participant, the aggregate of the Elective Deferrals credited to the
Participant under the EDCP or the Plan on or after January 1, 2005, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on those Elective Deferrals, but reduced
for any prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

Program Eligibility Date      means an Eligible Employee s
 Program Eligibility Date  under the 401(k) Plan.  

Rehire Pay      means Base Pay or Performance Pay, as
applicable, that is payable on or   after the date an Employee returns to active
employment with the Company following a 409A Separation from Service or, if
later, after the end of the Deferral Period in which the Employee s 409A
Separation from Service occurred. For example, if an Employee incurs a 409A Separation
from Service in April 2009 (whether on account of a leave in excess of six
months or because of a termination of employment with IBM) and returns to
active employment with IBM in November 2009, the Employee s Rehire Pay
would include (a) Base Pay payable on or after January 1, 2010 (i.e.,
the beginning of the Base Pay Deferral Period after the 409A Separation from
Service), and (b) Performance Pay payable on or after April 1, 2010
(i.e., the beginning of the Performance Pay Deferral Period after the 409A
Separation from Service). By contrast, if instead the Employee returned to
active employment on February 1, 2010, the Employee s Rehire Pay would
include (a) Base Pay payable on or after on February 1, 2010, and (b) Performance
Pay payable on or after April 1, 2010.  

Retirement-Eligible Participant      means a
Participant who:  

(a)              when his or her 409A Separation from
Service occurs, (1) is at least age 55 with at least 15 years of service, (2) is
at least age 62 with at least 5 years of service, (3) is at least age 65
with at least 1 year of service, or (4) begins to receive LTD Benefits;  

(b)             as of June 30, 1999, had at least 25
years of service and, when his or her 409A Separation from Service occurs, has
at least 30 years of service; or  

7  

(c)              as of June 30, 1999, was at least
age 40 with at least 10 years of service and, when his or her 409A Separation
from Service occurs, has at least 30 years of service.  

For
purposes of this definition,  year of service  means a year of  Eligibility
Service  as defined in the IBM Personal Pension Plan. In addition, for purposes
of Section 7.04 (payment of grandfathered amounts upon termination of
employment), this definition of  Retirement-Eligible Participant  is applied by
replacing  409A Separation from Service  with  termination of employment.  Furthermore,
the conditions in (a), (b), and/or (c) above are modified to the extent
necessary to be consistent with the retirement-eligibility criteria in the
EDCP.  

Section 415 Excess Credit      means a credit
to a Participant s Account as described in Section 5.03.  

Subsidiary      means a  Subsidiary  as defined in the 401(k) Plan.  

Supplemental Employee      means an employee who is
designated by the Company as a  long-term supplemental employee  or a  supplemental
employee  in accordance with the Company s established personnel practices.  

Transition Credit      means a credit
to a Participant s Account as described in Section 5.02.  

8  

ARTICLE
III. ELIGIBILITY   

3.01.       Eligibility for Elective Deferrals.    An Employee shall be eligible to make
Elective Deferrals for a Deferral Period if:  

(a) he or she
qualifies as an Employee (i.e., an employee of the Company who is eligible to
participate in the 401(k) Plan and is not a Supplemental Employee) and is
Actively Employed on both August 31 and December 31 immediately
preceding the first day of the Deferral Period;  

(b) the Plan
Administrator, in its sole discretion, estimates as of the September 1
immediately preceding the first day of the Deferral Period (or such other date
prescribed by the Plan Administrator) that the Employee s pay for the calendar
year immediately preceding the first day of the Deferral Period will exceed the
Pay Limit as then in effect; and  

(c) the Plan
Administrator notifies the Employee between September 1 and December 31
immediately preceding the Deferral Period that he or she will be eligible to
make Elective Deferrals under the Plan during the Deferral Period.  

3.02.       Eligibility
for Matching and Match Maximizer Contributions.    An Employee shall be eligible for Matching and Match
Maximizer Contributions for a payroll period that ends after the   Employee has
reached his or her Program Eligibility Date, provided that   the Employee is eligible for, and makes,
Elective Deferrals during the Plan Year in which the payroll period ends  . However, an
Employee shall not be eligible for Matching and Match Maximizer Contributions
during any payroll period:  

(a)    beginning
after the Employee has a 409A Separation from Service and ending before the
Employee returns to active employment as an Employee;  

(b)   beginning after
the Employee receives a hardship withdrawal under the 401(k) Plan and
within the same Plan Year as such hardship withdrawal occurs; or  

(c)   beginning after
the Employee becomes a Supplemental Employee or begins to receive LTD Benefits
(whether or not he or she makes Elective Deferrals) and ending before he again
becomes an Employee.  

3.03.           Eligibility
for Automatic Contributions and Transition Credits.   

(a)  General Rule.  Except as provided in subsection (b) (regarding
Employees hired before September 1, 2007) and subsection (c) (regarding
the period following a 409A Separation from Service), an Employee shall be
eligible for Automatic Contributions and Transition Credits during a payroll
period if:  

(1) with respect to
eligibility for Automatic Contributions, the Employee is eligible during that
payroll period for  automatic contributions    

9  

under the 401(k) Plan, and, with respect to
eligibility for Transition Credits, the Employee is eligible during that
payroll period for  transition credits  under the 401(k) Plan; and  

(2) the Employee is
eligible to make Elective Deferrals during the payroll period (regardless of
whether the Employee has elected to make Elective Deferrals for the payroll
period).  

If the individual is
eligible to make Elective Deferrals during the Plan Year only with respect to
Performance Pay during the Performance Pay Deferral Period that ends in the
Plan Year, the individual is eligible for Automatic Contributions and
Transition Credits, if at all, only during payroll periods ending during such
Performance Pay Deferral Period and only with respect to the portion of the
Performance Pay actually deferred under this Plan (except as provided in
subsection (b), below). For example, if an individual is eligible to make
Elective Deferrals for Deferral Periods that begin in 2008 but is not eligible
to make Elective Deferrals for Deferral Periods that begin in 2009, the
individual is not eligible for Automatic Contributions and Transition Credits
in 2009 except with respect to any Elective Deferrals of Performance Pay for
the Performance Pay Deferral Period ending March 31, 2009 (and except as
provided in subsection (b), below).  

(b)  Employees Hired Before September 1, 2007 .           Notwithstanding subsection (a),
above, an Employee who is continuously employed by the Company since August 31,
2007, shall be eligible for Automatic Contributions and Transition Credits
during a payroll period if   the Employee is eligible during that payroll period, respectively, for  automatic
contributions  and  transition credits  under the 401(k) Plan as described
in subsection (a)(1), above, even if the Employee is not eligible to make
Elective Deferrals during the payroll period  .  

(c)  Eligibility after 409A Separation from Service . An Employee
shall not be eligible for Automatic Contributions or Transition Credits during
any payroll period that begins after the Employee has a 409A Separation from
Service and ends before the Employee returns to active employment as an
Employee.  

3.04.       Eligibility for Section 415 Excess
Credits.    An Employee shall be eligible for Section 415
Excess Credits during a payroll period if the Employee s allocations during the
payroll period under the 401(k) Plan are limited by Section 415 of
the Code. However, an Employee shall not be eligible for Section 415
Excess Credits during any payroll period that begins after the Employee has a
409A Separation from Service and ends before the Employee returns to active
employment as an Employee.  

3.05.       Eligibility for Discretionary Awards.    An Employee
shall be eligible for Discretionary Awards during a Plan Year as determined by
the Company, in its discretion.  

10  

ARTICLE
IV. ELECTIVE DEFERRALS AND     MATCHING CONTRIBUTIONS   

4.01.       Elective
Deferrals.     Beginning with the payroll period that
includes the Effective Date  ,   Elective Deferrals made pursuant to an Eligible
Employee s Deferral Election, as described below, shall be credited to the
Employee s Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account on the date on which the amount
would otherwise be paid to the Eligible Employee absent a Deferral Election.  

(a)  Amount of Elective Deferrals .  

(1)  Amount of
Base Pay Deferrals .  An Employee who,
pursuant to Section 3.01, is eligible to make Elective Deferrals under the
Plan for a Deferral Period with respect to Base Pay may elect to defer Base Pay
in the amounts specified below, subject to any restriction imposed by the Plan
Administrator to ensure sufficient pay remains for other deductions and
withholding, which limitations shall be imposed prior to the date on which the
election becomes irrevocable.  

i.                  Standard Base Pay Election   . 
From 1% to 80%, in 1% increments, of the Eligible Employee s Base Pay,
if any, for each payroll period that ends during the Deferral Period; or  

ii.               Combined Base Pay Election   . 
From 1% to 80%, in 1% increments, of the Eligible Employee s Base Pay,
if any, for each payroll period that ends during the Deferral Period, reduced
(but not below zero) by the product of (A) the company matching
contribution percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee under the 401(k) Plan
and (B) 1/24 of the Pay Limit in effect for the Deferral Period.  

(2)  Amount
of Performance Pay Deferrals .  An
Employee who, pursuant to Section 3.01, may elect to make Elective
Deferrals under the Plan for a Deferral Period with respect to Performance Pay
may elect to make Deferrals from 1% to 80%, in 1% increments, of his or   her   Performance Pay, if any,
paid during the Deferral Period.  

(b)  Timing of Deferral Elections.      An Eligible Employee s Deferral
Elections under subsection (a), above, shall be made as follows:  

(1)  Election
Period.   The election must be made
while the individual is an Employee and Actively Employed, in the form and
manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator, and during the time period
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, which shall begin no earlier than the September 1
and end no later than the December 31 of the Plan Year   

11  

immediately preceding the first day of the Deferral
Period to which the election applies.  

(2)  Irrevocability .  The election must become irrevocable on the December 31st
immediately preceding the Plan Year during which the applicable Deferral Period
begins.  Once a Deferral Election becomes
irrevocable, a  n Eligible Employee s Deferral Election shall apply
for the entire Deferral Period to which it relates and shall cease to apply
after such Deferral Period except to the extent that the individual makes a new
Deferral Election in accordance with this Section for subsequent Deferral
Periods  , subject to
the cancellation rules in subsection (c), below.  

(c)  Cancellation of Deferral Election upon a 401(k) Plan Hardship
Distribution . Notwithstanding the irrevocability of elections in
subsection (b)(2), above, an individual s Deferral Election shall not apply
with respect to:  

(1) any payroll
period that ends after the Employee receives a hardship withdrawal under the
401(k) Plan and within the same Plan Year as the hardship withdrawal
occurs; or  

(2) any payroll
period for which Performance Pay would, absent a Deferral Election, be paid to
the individual during a Deferral Period that begins during the Plan Year in
which the hardship withdrawal occurs.  

For example, if an
individual receives a hardship withdrawal on June 1, 2009, the individual s
Deferral Election with respect to Performance Pay is cancelled for the
remainder of the Deferral Period ending March 31, 2010.  Furthermore, if the individual instead
receives a hardship withdrawal on March 1, 2009, the individual s Deferral
Election is cancelled with respect to the remainder of the Deferral Period
ending on March 31, 2009, and for the Deferral Period beginning on April 1,
2009, and ending on March 31, 2010.  

4.02.       Matching
Contributions.     Beginning with the payroll period that
includes the Effective Date  , Matching Contributions and Match Maximizer
Contributions shall be credited to the Post-2004 Company Account for each
Eligible Employee who satisfies the eligibility requirements described in Section 3.02
for such payroll period in an amount equal to the sum of the Matching
Contribution and Match Maximizer Contribution described below.  

(a)  Matching Contribution . 
An Eligible Employee s Matching Contribution is the sum of the
following:  

(1) the lesser of (A) the
company matching contribution percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee
under the 401(k) Plan or (B) the Elective Deferral percentage elected
by the Eligible Employee (without regard to any Combined Base Pay Election) for
such payroll period,   

12  

multiplied by the Eligible Employee s Elective
Deferrals for such payroll period; and  

(2) the lesser of (A) the
company matching contribution percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee
under the 401(k) Plan or (B) the Elective Deferral percentage elected
by the Eligible Employee (without regard to any Combined Base Pay Election) for
such payroll period, multiplied by the Eligible Employee s Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay for such payroll period;  

provided
that the sum of (1) and (2) shall not exceed the Elective Deferrals
credited to the Eligible Employee for such payroll period.  

(b)  Match Maximizer Contribution .  An Eligible Employee s Match Maximizer
Contribution for a payroll period is determined as described below.  The formula differs (as noted in paragraph
(ii), below) depending on whether or not the Eligible Employee elected the
Combined Base Pay Election for the Plan Year. The Match Maximizer Contribution
shall equal:  

The lesser of:    (1) The company matching contribution
percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee under the 401(k) Plan or (2) the
percentage derived from the ratio of:  

(i)                                      the aggregate Elective Deferrals previously credited
to the Eligible   Employee s   Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account for the portion
of the Plan Year after the Eligible Employee s Program Eligibility Date, to  

(ii)                                      the sum, aggregated for the portion of
the Plan Year that is after the Eligible Employee s Program Eligibility Date
and   determined as of the date the applicable payroll period ends  , of (A) the Eligible Employee s
Elective Deferrals, (B) the Eligible Employee s Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay, and (C) if the Eligible Employee did not elect a Combined Base Pay
Election for the Plan Year, the compensation eligible for a matching
contribution under the 401(k) Plan.  

Multiplied by:    The Eligible Employee s Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay plus the Eligible Employee s Elective Deferrals, each aggregated only   for the portion of the Plan Year that is
after the Eligible Employee s Program Eligibility Date and until the   applicable
payroll period ends.  

Minus:    The Matching Contributions and Match Maximizer
Contributions previously credited to the Eligible Employee through the date the
applicable payroll period ends.  

13  

ARTICLE V.  NON-ELECTIVE CREDITS   

5.01.       Automatic
Contributions.     Beginning with the payroll period that includes
the Effective Date, an Automatic Contribution shall be credited to the
Post-2004 Company Account of an Employee who is eligible for Automatic
Contributions under Section 3.03 in an amount equal to the sum of:  

(a) the Employee s  automatic
contribution percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by the Employee s
Elective Deferrals, if any, for the applicable payroll period; plus  

(b) the Employee s  automatic
contribution percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by the Employee s
Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay, if any, for the applicable payroll period.  

5.02.       Transition
Credits.     Beginning with the payroll period that
includes the Effective Date, a Transition Credit shall be credited to the
Post-2004 Company Account of an Employee who is eligible for Transition Credits
under Section 3.03 in an amount equal to the sum of:  

(a) the Employee s  transition
credit percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by, if any, the
Employee s Elective Deferrals for the applicable payroll period; plus  

(b) the Employee s  transition
credit percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by the Employee s
Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay, if any, for the applicable payroll period.  

5.03.       Section 415 Excess Credits.    
Beginning with the payroll period that includes the Effective Date, a Section 415
Excess Credit shall be credited to the Post-2004 Company Account of an Employee
who is eligible for Section 415 Excess Credits under Section 3.04 in
an amount equal to the excess of (A) the amount that would have been
allocated to the Employee s account under the 401(k) Plan (including any
forfeiture that would have been allocated to such account in lieu of such a
contribution) for such payroll period if the limits imposed by Section 415
of the Code did not apply to such allocation over (B) the amount actually
allocated to such Employee s account under the 401(k) Plan (including any
forfeiture allocated in lieu of such a contribution) for such payroll period.  

5.04.       Discretionary Awards.    
From time to time on and after the Effective Date, the Company, in its
discretion, may credit an Eligible Employee s Post-2004 Company Account with an
amount determined under an agreement evidencing the Discretionary Award, and
such award shall be subject to the terms specified in such agreement in addition
to the terms of this Plan.  

14  

ARTICLE VI. VESTING, DEEMED
INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS   

6.01.       Individual
Accounts.     For record-keeping purposes only, the
Plan Administrator shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records showing
the individual balances of each Account maintained for a Participant from time
to time under the Plan.  Periodically,
each Participant shall be furnished with a statement setting forth the value of
his or her Accounts under the Plan.  

6.02.       Vesting
of Accounts.     A Participant shall be fully vested in all
Accounts maintained for the Participant under the Plan; provided, however, that
Discretionary Awards credited to a Participant s Post-2004 Company Account and
earnings, gains, or losses on those contributions, shall become vested only as
set forth in the agreement evidencing the award and, to the extent not vested,
shall not be paid.  

6.03.       Deemed
Investment of Accounts.     A Participant s Accounts under
the Plan shall be adjusted for deemed earnings, gains, or losses.  Earnings, gains, or losses for any period
before the Effective Date shall be determined in accordance with the applicable
provisions of the EDCP.  Earnings, gains,
or losses for any period on or after the Effective Date shall be determined in
accordance with the following:  

(a)  Deemed Investment Options Available .  

(1)  General Rule .  A Participant s Account shall be treated as
if the Participant had invested such accounts in certain 401(k) Plan
investment funds in accordance with subsection (b), below, except with respect
to certain amounts credited before the Effective Date and attributable to
Matching Contributions or the Buy-First Program as described in paragraphs (2) and
(3), below.  

(2)  Matching
Contributions Credited Before the Effective Date .  The portion of a Participant s Pre-2005
Company Account (if any) and the Participant s Post-2004 Company Account
attributable to Matching Contributions credited to the Participant before the
Effective Date (and related earnings but not dividend equivalents) shall be
treated as if invested at all times in the IBM Stock Fund under the 401(k) Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a
Participant has a termination of employment for purposes of the 401(k) Plan
and his or her entire Plan benefit is not immediately payable in a lump sum,
amounts described in this paragraph (2) shall no longer be subject to the restrictions of this paragraph (2) and may be invested as described in
paragraph (1), above.  

(3)  Amounts Attributable to Buy-First Executive
Equity Program . Any portion
of a Participant s Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account that is attributable to
a Participant s deferrals under the EDCP through the IBM Buy-First Executive
Equity Program before the Effective Date (and related earnings but not dividend
equivalents) shall, for the three-year period   

15  

following the date such
deferrals were credited, be treated as if invested in the IBM Stock Fund under
the 401(k) Plan; provided, however, that if a Participant has a
termination of employment for purposes of the 401(k) Plan before the end
of such three-year period and his or her entire Plan benefit is not immediately
payable in a lump sum, amounts described in this paragraph (3) shall no
longer be subject to the restrictions of this paragraph (3) and may be
invested as described in paragraph   (1), above.  

(b)  Elections for Deemed Investment Options.   

(1)  Initial
Election For Future Credits .  A
Participant shall designate, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, the proportions (in multiples of 1%) in
which Elective Deferrals and Company Contributions credited to his or her Plan
Accounts on or after the Effective Date shall be treated as if they had been
allocated among any or all of the investment funds that are available under the
401(k) Plan (other than the mutual fund window) at the time such amounts
are credited.  If the Participant makes
no such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have designated the
default investment fund under the 401(k) Plan.  

(2)  Change in
Election for Future Credits .  A
Participant may elect, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to change his or her investment elections
for future Elective Deferrals and Company Contributions credited to his or her
Plan Accounts.  Any restrictions on
investment election changes that apply under the 401(k) Plan shall also
apply under the Plan.  

(3)  Transfers
Among Deemed Investment Options .  A
Participant may elect, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to transfer balances in his or her Plan
Accounts (other than amounts described in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) that
are required to be treated as invested in IBM stock or the IBM Stock Fund)
among the available investment funds, provided that:  

i.                 Transfers must be made in multiples of 1%, provided
that the minimum amount transferred shall be $250 if that is greater than 1%
(provided, however, that the Plan Administrator may specify a different
percentage and/or a different dollar amount to be applied in this paragraph);  

ii.              Any restrictions on transfers into or out
of investment funds that apply under the 401(k) Plan shall also apply
under the Plan; and  

16  

iii.           Plan Administrator may impose such
additional rules and limits upon transfers between investment funds as the
Plan Administrator may deem necessary or appropriate.  

(c)  Administrative Fee . 
Each calendar quarter, an administrative fee shall be deducted pro rata
from each Participant s Accounts.  The
amount of the fee shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and, as of the
Effective Date is $8 each quarter.  

17  

ARTICLE VII. PAYMENT OF
GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS   

7.01.       Grandfathered
Treatment of Grandfathered Amounts.     Pre-2005
Accounts are paid in accordance with the EDCP in effect on October 3,
2004, except as the EDCP is amended, where each such amendment does not
constitute a  material modification,  as determined under Section 409A of
the Code.  This ARTICLE VII describes the
key provisions of the EDCP (as amended), as it applies to Grandfathered Amounts
on and after the Effective Date.  

7.02.       Payment
of Grandfathered Amounts Upon Death.      If a
Participant dies before his or her Pre-2005 Accounts have been distributed in
full, the value of his or her Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid in a lump sum to
the Participant s Beneficiary as soon as practicable after the Participant s death.  

7.03.       Options
for Payment of Grandfathered Amounts Upon Termination of Employment.   

(a)  Forms of Payment.   A
Participant may elect, at the time and in the manner described in subsection
(b), below, to have the value of his or her Pre-2005 Accounts paid under one of
the following options, subject to the limits in Section 7.04, below
(regarding retirement-eligibility and $25,000 cash-out limit):  

(1) A lump sum
payment as soon as practicable following the Participant s termination from
employment;  

(2) A lump sum
payment as of the last business day in January of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant s termination
from employment occurs; or  

(3) From two to 10
annual installments (as elected by the Participant), each paid as of the last
business day in January beginning with the January immediately
following the calendar year in which the Participant s termination from
employment occurs, until the elected number of installments have been paid.  

Solely for purposes of
this subsection (a), termination of employment includes the date on which a
Participant begins to receive LTD Benefits.  

(b)  Election of Payment Option.  
A Participant shall elect a payment option for his or her Pre-2005
Accounts in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator.  A payment election made before January 1,
2008, applies to a termination of employment that occurs at least six months
after, and in a calendar year after, the payment election is made.  A payment election made on or after January 1,
2008, applies to a termination of employment that occurs at least twelve months
after the payment election is made.  

18  

7.04.       Payment
of Grandfathered Amounts Upon Termination of Employment.    The Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts
shall be paid to the Participant in the form and at the time described below:  

(a)  Non-Retirement-Eligible
or Benefit Is Less than $25,000 .  If
the Participant is not a Retirement-Eligible Participant or if the aggregate
value of all of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) is less than $25,000 when
the Participant terminates employment, the Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts
shall be paid in an immediate lump sum;  

(b)  Retirement-Eligible
Without Valid Payment Election .  If
the Participant is a Retirement-Eligible Participant but has not made a valid
payment election, the Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid in a lump
sum as of the last business day in January immediately following the
calendar year of the Participant s termination of employment, provided that the
aggregate value of all of the Participant s Accounts (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) under the Plan is at least
$25,000 when the Participant terminates employment.  

(c)  Retirement-Eligible
With Valid Payment Election .  If the
Participant is a Retirement-Eligible Participant and has made a valid payment
election, the Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid in accordance with
the payment option elected, provided that the aggregate value of all of the
Participant s Accounts under the Plan is at least $25,000 (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) when the Participant
terminates employment.  

19  

ARTICLE VIII. PAYMENT OF
NON-GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS   

8.01.           Payment of Non-Grandfathered
Amounts Upon Death.     If a Participant dies before his or her
Post-2004 Accounts have been distributed in full, the value of his or her
Post-2004 Accounts shall be paid in a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary
on the date that is 30 days after
the date of the Participant s death (or, if that date is not a business day,
the first business day thereafter). 
However, the Plan Administrator may make payment on any other day to the
extent that such payment is treated as being paid on the date specified in the
previous sentence under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which permits
payment to be made within thirty days before the specified date and later
within the same calendar year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months following the
specified date, provided that the Participant is not permitted to designate the
taxable year of payment.  For purposes of
determining the amount payable to the Beneficiary, the Participant s Post-2004
Accounts will be valued as of the date the payment is processed.  

8.02.       Form of
Payment for Non-Grandfathered Amounts Paid Upon a 409A Separation from Service.     
   A
Participant may elect, at the time and in the manner described in Section 8.03,
below, to have the value of his or her Post-2004 Accounts paid under one of the
following options, subject to the limits in Section 8.04, below (regarding
delays for 409A Key Employees) and Section 8.05, below (special rules for
separations during the first quarter of 2008):  

(a) A lump sum
payment as of the first business day that is at least 30 days after the
Participant s 409A Separation from Service;  

(b) A lump sum
payment as of the last business day in January of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant s 409A
Separation from Service occurs; or  

(c) From two to 10
annual installments (as elected by the Participant), each paid as of the last
business day in January beginning with the January immediately
following the calendar year in which the Participant s 409A Separation from
Service occurs, until the elected number of installments have been paid,
subject to Section 8.04(c) (involuntary cash-outs).  This installment option is treated as the
entitlement to a single payment for purposes of Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii).  

However, the Plan Administrator
may make payment on any other day to the extent that such payment is treated as
being paid on the date specified above under Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-3(d), which permits payment to be made within thirty days before the
specified date and later within the same calendar year, or, if later, within
2-1/2 months following the specified date, provided that the Participant is not
permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.  

20  

8.03.       Electing
and Changing Payment Options for Non-Grandfathered Amounts.   

(a)  Election of Payment Option.  
A Participant shall elect a payment option for his or her Post-2004
Accounts in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator and during
whichever of the following election periods applies to the Participant (except
as provided in Section 8.05, below, with respect to a separation during
the first quarter of 2008):  

(1)  Special
Election Period in 2007 .  During the
special election period designated by the Plan Administrator and ending no
later than December 31, 2007, an Employee may elect the payment option
that will apply to his or her Post-2004 Accounts under the Plan in the event
his 409A Separation from Service occurs on or after April 1, 2008, if the
Employee:  

i.                 is eligible to make Elective Deferrals in 2008;  

ii.              on October 31, 2007, had a balance in his or her
EDCP Accounts; or  

iii.           on October 31, 2007, had a valid EDCP election on
file for deferrals in 2007.  

Accordingly, an individual
who first became an executive after October 31, 2007 and who is not
eligible to make Elective Deferrals in 2008, is not eligible to make a payment
election under this paragraph (1), even if he or she deferred pay under the
EDCP in 2007.  

(2)  Election in
Plan Year Before Initial Eligibility . 
An individual who is first eligible to make Elective Deferrals in a Plan
Year beginning after the Effective Date, and who before such Plan Year has not
earned any other benefit under the Plan (including the EDCP) may, during the
annual enrollment period prescribed by the Plan Administrator that immediately
precedes such Plan Year, elect the payment option that will apply to his or her
Post-2004 Accounts under the Plan, whether or not the individual also elects to
make Elective Deferrals during such enrollment period.  

(3)  Initial
Election for Pre-September 1, 2007 Hire .  If, during a Plan Year, an Eligible Employee
earns for the first time Automatic Contributions and/or Transition Credits (but
not Section 415 Excess Credits), and the benefit the Eligible Employee
earns under the Plan for the Plan Year is equal only to the excess of amounts
that would otherwise be allocated to the Participant s account in the 401(k) Plan
in the absence of one or more limits applicable to tax-qualified plans over the
amount actually credited to the Participant s account in the 401(k) Plan,
the Participant may elect, in accordance with Treas. Reg.
  1.409A-2(a)(7)(iii), the payment option that   

21  

will apply to his or her
Post-2004 Accounts under the Plan during the period determined by the Plan
Administrator that ends no later than January 31st of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the Automatic and/or
Transition Credit is credited, but only if the Participant:  

i.                 was hired by the Company before September 1, 2007
and has been employed continuously since his or her hire date;  

ii.              was not, during the Plan Year of such credit or any
previous Plan Year beginning on or after the Effective Date, eligible to make
an Elective Deferral;  

iii.           was not previously eligible to elect a payment option
under this subsection (a);  

iv.          has not, in any calendar year prior to
the calendar year of the contribution, accrued a benefit or deferred
compensation under a plan as determined under Treas. Reg.
  1.409A-2(a)(7)(iii).  

(b)  Irrevocability and Default Payment Option .  If a Participant does not make an election
under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3), above (including a Participant who
is not eligible to make an election under any of those paragraphs), the
Participant s initial payment election shall be the payment option described in
subsection 8.02(a) (immediate lump sum), above.  A Participant s initial payment election
(including the default option described in the previous sentence) becomes
irrevocable, and can be changed only in accordance with subsection (c), below,
after (i) the deadline specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(3), for
Participants eligible to make elections under those paragraphs, and (ii) December 31
of the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year in which the Participant first earns a
credit under the Plan, for all other Participants.  

(c)  Changing Payment Options . 
A Participant may elect, in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan
Administrator, to change the Participant s initial payment option determined
under this Section 8.03, provided that:  

(1) The Participant
must make such election at least 12 months before the date of his 409A
Separation from Service;  

(2) If the election
is made on or after January 1, 2009, the payment date for any lump sum or
the start date for any series of installments provided for under the new
payment option shall be the fifth anniversary of the payment date or start date
that would have applied absent a change in payment option; and  

(3) The Participant
may change his or her payment option:  

22  

i.                 only once during 2008; and  

ii.              only once on or after January 1, 2009.  

8.04.       Payment
of Non-Grandfathered Amounts Upon a 409A Separation from Service.    
The value of a Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall be paid to the
Participant upon his or her 409A Separation from Service on or after the
Effective Date in the form and at the time provided in Sections 8.02 and 8.03,
above (except as provided in Section 8.05, below (special rules for
first quarter of 2008)), subject to the following:  

(a)    Delay for 409A Key Employees   . 
If the Participant is a 409A Key Employee on the date of his or her 409A
Separation from Service, the payment date for any lump sum or the start date
for any series of installments provided for under the applicable payment option
shall be the later of (I) the
first business day    that is
six months after the date of the Participant s 409A Separation from Service, or
(II) the otherwise applicable payment date or start date, subject to
subsection (b) (death).  If the
start date of a series of installments occurs other than as of  the last business day in January due to
application of this paragraph, installments after the first installment shall
be paid as of the last business day in January of each subsequent year, as
scheduled without regard to the delay described in this subsection (a).  

(b)  Death of Participant After 409A Separation from Service .  If the death of a Participant (including a
409A Key Employee described in subsection (a), above) occurs before the payment
date for any lump sum or installment provided for under the applicable payment
option, payment shall be made to the Participant s Beneficiary as provided in Section 8.01.  

(c)    Involuntary Cash-Out   . 
If (i) the applicable payment option is the installment option
described in subsection 8.02(c), above, and (ii) the aggregate value of
all of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this purpose,  deferred
shares  as defined in the EDCP) determined as of the date of his or her 409A
Separation from Service is less than 50% of the Pay Limit in effect for the
calendar year in which the Participant s 409A Separation from Service occurs,
the value of the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall be distributed in a
lump sum on the start date that would otherwise have applied for the elected
installments, taking into account any applicable delay for a 409A Key Employee
described in subsection (a), above.  

23  

8.05.       Special
Rules for Payment of Non-Grandfathered Amounts Upon a 409A Separation from
Service in First Quarter of 2008.     If a
Participant s 409A Separation from Service occurs on or after January 1,
2008, and before April 1, 2008, the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall
be paid to the Participant in the form and at the time described below, except
that such payments shall be subject to Section 8.04(a) (delay for
409A Key Employees) and Section 8.04(b) (death of Participant after
409A Separation from Service):  

(a)  Non-Retirement-Eligible or Benefit Is Less than $25,000 .  If the Participant is not a
Retirement-Eligible Participant or if the aggregate value of all of the
Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this purpose,  deferred
shares  as defined in the EDCP) is less than $25,000 as of the date of his or
her 409A Separation from Service, the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall be
paid in an immediate lump sum as described in Section 8.02(a), above;  

(b)  Retirement-Eligible Without Valid Payment Election .  If the Participant is a Retirement-Eligible
Participant but has not made a valid payment election, the Participant s Post-2004
Accounts shall be paid in a lump sum as of the last business day in January immediately
following the calendar year of the Participant s 409A Separation from Service
as described in Section 8.02(b), above, provided that the aggregate value
of all of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) is at least $25,000 as of
the date of his or her 409A Separation from Service.  

(c)  Retirement-Eligible With Valid Payment Election .  If the Participant is a Retirement-Eligible
Participant and has made a valid payment election, the Participant s Post-2004
Accounts shall be paid in accordance with the payment option elected, as
described in Section 8.02, above, provided that the aggregate value of all
of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this purpose,  deferred
shares  as defined in the EDCP) is at least $25,000 as of the date of his or
her 409A Separation from Service.  

For purposes of this Section 8.04,
a valid payment election is a payment election made at least six months before
the Participant s 409A Separation from Service in a manner prescribed by the
Plan Administrator.  If a Participant did
not make a valid payment election for his or her Post-2004 Accounts, the Participant s
valid payment election shall be his or her valid payment election for his or
her Pre-2005 Accounts, if any.  

8.06.       Valuation
of Non-Grandfathered Accounts.     For purposes
of determining the amount of any payment of the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts,
the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts will be valued as of the date the payment
is processed, except that if payment is required under the terms of the Plan to
be made as of the last business day in January of a Plan Year (for
example, pursuant to Section 8.02(b)), the Participant s Post-2004
Accounts with respect to such payment shall be valued as of such last business
day in January.  For purposes of
determining the amount of any annual installment payment of the Participant s
Post-2004 Accounts, the   

24  

value of the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts on the
valuation date shall be divided by the remaining number of installments.  No adjustment shall be made to the amount of
any lump sum or installment after the valuation date.  

8.07.       Effect
of Rehire on Non-Grandfathered Payments.     If a
Participant becomes eligible for a payment of benefits on account of a 409A
Separation from Service and is rehired as an Employee before his or her
Post-2004 Accounts have been distributed in full, payments shall be made as if
the Participant had not been rehired.  If
the Participant again becomes eligible to make Elective Deferrals or receive
Company Contributions following his or her rehire, the Plan Administrator shall
arrange separate accounting for Elective Deferrals and Company Contributions
(and related earnings, gains, or losses) credited to the Participant s
Post-2004 Accounts following the Participant s rehire, and the Participant s
opportunity to make an initial distribution election under subsection 8.03(a)(2) (election
in Plan Year before initial eligibility) shall be determined without regard to
the benefits earned under the Plan prior to the Participant s rehire.  

25  

ARTICLE IX.  ADMINISTRATION   

9.01.           Amendment or Termination.     This Plan may
be amended from time to time for any purpose permitted by law or terminated at
any time by written resolution of the Board or by IBM s chief human resources
officer, but only if the chief human resource officer s action is not
materially inconsistent with a prior action of the Board.    The authority to amend or
terminate the Plan shall include the authority to amend the procedure for
amending or terminating the Plan and the authority to amend or terminate any
related instrument or agreement.  

9.02.       Responsibilities.   

(a) The following
persons and groups of persons shall severally have the authority to control and
manage the operation and administration of the Plan as herein delineated:  

(1) the Board,  

(2) IBM s chief
human resources officer, and  

(3) the Plan
Administrator and each person on any committee serving as the Plan
Administrator.  

Each
person or group of persons shall be responsible for discharging only the duties
assigned to it by the terms of the Plan.  

(b) The Board shall
be responsible only for approval of a resolution in accordance with Section 9.01
to amend or terminate the Plan.  

(c) IBM s chief
human resources officer may, pursuant to a duly adopted resolution, delegate to
any officer or employee of IBM, or a committee thereof, authority to carry out
any decision, directive, or resolution of IBM s chief human resources officer.
IBM s chief human resources officer may appoint one or more executives employed
by IBM to serve as Plan Administrator or as a committee to fulfill the function
of Plan Administrator.  The VP HR with
functional responsibilities for IBM s benefit programs shall serve as the Plan
Administrator if no such appointment is made by IBM s chief human resources
officer.  

(d) In the sole
discretion of the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator shall have the
full power and authority to:  

  (1) promulgate and
enforce such rules and regulations as shall be deemed to be necessary or
appropriate for the administration of the Plan;  

(2) adopt any
amendments to the Plan that are required by law;  

(3) interpret the
Plan consistent with the terms and intent thereof; and  

26  

(4) resolve any
possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, and omissions.  

All
such determinations and interpretations shall be in accordance with the terms
and intent of the Plan, and the Plan Administrator shall report such actions to
  IBM s chief human
resources officer on a regular basis  .  

(e) IBM s chief
human resources officer and the Plan Administrator may engage the services of
accountants, attorneys, actuaries, investment consultants, and such other
professional personnel as are deemed necessary or advisable to assist them in
fulfilling their responsibilities under the Plan.  IBM s chief human resources officer, the Plan
Administrator, and their delegates and assistants will be entitled to act on
the basis of all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions, and reports
furnished by such professional personnel.  

27  

ARTICLE X.  GENERAL PROVISIONS   

10.01.     Funding.   

(a) All amounts
payable in accordance with this Plan shall constitute a general unsecured
obligation of the Company.  Such amounts,
as well as any administrative costs relating to the Plan, shall be paid out of
the general assets of the Company.  In
the sole discretion of IBM s chief human resources officer , a Participant s
accounts under the Plan may be reduced to reflect allocable administrative
expenses.  

(b) The Company, the
IBM s chief human resources officer, and the Plan Administrator do not
guarantee the investment alternatives available under the Plan in any manner
against loss or depreciation.  

10.02.     No
Contract of Employment.     Nothing herein contained shall
be deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in the service of the
Company or an affiliate or to interfere with the right of the Company or an
affiliate to discharge any employee at any time without regard to the effect
that such discharge may have upon the employee under the Plan.  Nothing appearing in or done pursuant to the
Plan shall be held or construed to create a contract of employment with the
Company, to obligate the Company to continue the services of any employee, or
to affect or modify any employee s terms of employment in any way or to give
any person any legal or equitable right or interest in the Plan or any part
thereof or distribution therefrom or against the Company except as expressly
provided herein.  

10.03.         Facility of Payment.     In the event
the Plan Administrator determines that any Participant or Beneficiary receiving
or entitled to receive benefits under the Plan is incompetent to care for his
or her affairs and in the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian of the
property of the incompetent, benefit payments due under the Plan (unless prior
claim thereto has been made by a duly qualified guardian, committee, or other
legal representative) may be made to the spouse, parent, brother or sister, or
other person, including a hospital or other institution, deemed by the Plan
Administrator to have incurred or to be liable for expenses on behalf of such
incompetent.  In the absence of the
appointment of a legal guardian of the property of a minor, any minor s share
of benefits payable under the Plan may be paid to such adult or adults as in
the opinion of the Plan Administrator have assumed the custody and principal
support of such minor.    The Plan
Administrator, however, in its sole discretion, may require that a legal
guardian for the property of such incompetent or minor be appointed before
authorizing the payment of benefits in such situation.  Benefit payments made under the Plan in
accordance with determinations of the Plan Administrator pursuant to this Section 10.03
shall be a complete discharge of any obligation arising under the Plan with
respect to such benefit payments.  

28  

10.04.     Withholding
Taxes.    The Plan
Administrator shall have the right to withhold all applicable taxes or other
payments from benefits hereunder and to report information to government
agencies when required to do so by law.  

10.05.     Nonalienation.    
No benefits payable under the Plan shall be subject to alienation, sale,
transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, lien, levy, or like
encumbrance.  No benefit under the Plan
shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any
person entitled to benefits under the Plan. On and after the Effective Date,
compliance with any domestic relations order relating to a Participant s
Account that the Plan Administrator determines must be complied with under
applicable law shall not be considered a violation of this provision; provided,
however, that an administrative fee determined by the Plan Administrator shall
be deducted from any Participant s Account that is subject to a domestic
relations order.  

10.06.     Administration.    
All decisions, determinations, or interpretations the Board, IBM s chief
human resources officer, the Plan Administrator, the Company, or any member,
officer or employee thereof are authorized to make under the Plan (including
the delegation of any authority hereunder to another party) shall be made in
that party s sole discretion and shall be final, binding, and conclusive on all
interested persons.  

10.07.     Construction.    
All rights hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance
with federal law and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of
the State of New York without regarding to the choice of law rules of any
jurisdiction.  

29  

ARTICLE XI.      CLAIMS PROCEDURE   

If
a Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to have received
benefits but has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must accept
any payment made under the Plan and make prompt and reasonable, good faith
efforts to collect the remaining portion of the payment, as determined under
Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(g).  For this
purpose (and as determined under such regulation), efforts to collect the
payment will be presumed not to be prompt, reasonable, good faith efforts,
unless the Participant or Beneficiary provides notice to the Plan Administrator
within 90 days of the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely
made in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the regulations under Code Section 409A,
and unless, if not paid, the Participant or Beneficiary takes further
enforcement measures within 180 days after such latest date.  In addition, a Participant or Beneficiary
must exhaust any other claims procedures established by the Plan Administrator
before initiating litigation.  

30  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-12>
 5
 a2189817zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 12            

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING   OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES   (Unaudited)            

*    Rental
expense in 2007 and 2006 is presented to conform with 2008 presentation, inclusive of rental expenses associated with automobile leases within certain
countries.
      (1)    Income
from continuing operations before income taxes excludes (a) amortization of capitalized interest and (b) the company's share in the
income and losses of less-than-fifty percent owned affiliates.    

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 12   
 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES (Unaudited)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 6
 a2189817zex-13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Report of Financials   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and
Subsidiary Companies   

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION   

Road Map  

18  

Forward-Looking and
  Cautionary Statements  

18  

Management Discussion
  Snapshot  

19  

Description of Business  

20  

Year in Review  

25  

Prior Year in Review  

39  

Discontinued Operations  

44  

Other Information  

44  

Looking Forward  

44  

Liquidity and Capital Resources  

45  

Critical Accounting Estimates  

48  

Currency Rate Fluctuations  

51  

Market Risk  

51  

Financing Risks  

52  

Employees and Related Workforce  

52  

Global Financing  

53  

REPORT OF
  MANAGEMENT   

58  

REPORT OF
  INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

59  

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
  STATEMENTS   

Earnings  

60  

Financial Position  

61  

Cash Flows  

62  

Stockholders  Equity  

63  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   

A   

Significant Accounting
  Policies  

66  

B   

Accounting Changes  

76  

C   

Acquisitions/Divestitures  

78  

D   

Fair Value  

84  

E   

Financial Instruments
  (Excluding Derivatives)  

85  

F   

Inventories  

86  

G   

Financing Receivables  

86  

H   

Plant, Rental Machines and
  Other Property  

86  

I   

Investments and Sundry
  Assets  

87  

J   

Intangible Assets Including
  Goodwill  

87  

K   

Borrowings  

88  

L   

Derivatives and Hedging
  Transactions  

90  

M   

Other Liabilities  

94  

N   

Stockholders  Equity
  Activity  

95  

O   

Contingencies and
  Commitments  

97  

P   

Taxes  

99  

Q   

Research, Development and
  Engineering  

101  

R   

Earnings Per Share of
  Common Stock  

102  

S   

Rental Expense and Lease
  Commitments  

103  

T   

Stock-Based Compensation  

103  

U   

Retirement-Related Benefits  

106  

V   

Segment Information  

116  

W   

Subsequent Event  

119  

FIVE-YEAR
  COMPARISON OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA   

120  

SELECTED
  QUARTERLY DATA   

121  

PERFORMANCE
  GRAPHS   

122  

BOARD OF
  DIRECTORS AND SENIOR LEADERSHIP   

124  

STOCKHOLDER
  INFORMATION   

125  

17  

Management
Discussion   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary
Companies   

Road Map   

The financial section of the International Business Machines Corporation
(IBM or the company) 2008 Annual Report consists of this Management Discussion,
the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. This Road Map is designed to provide the reader with some
perspective regarding the information contained in the financial section.  

ORGANIZATION OF INFORMATION   

The Management Discussion is designed to
provide readers with a narrative on the company s financial results and certain
factors that may affect future prospects from the perspective of the company s
management. The  Management Discussion Snapshot  on pages 19 and 20
presents an overview of the key performance drivers in 2008. 

Beginning with the  Year in Review  on page 25,
the Management Discussion contains the results of operations for each segment
of the business, a discussion of the company s financial position and cash
flows, in addition to other key information and data. It is useful to read the
Management Discussion in conjunction with note V,  Segment Information,  on pages 116
to 119. 

Global Financing is a reportable segment that
is measured as if it were a standalone entity. A separate  Global Financing 
section is included beginning on page 53. The information presented in this
section is consistent with this separate company view. 

The Consolidated Financial Statements are
presented on pages 60 through 65. These statements provide an overview of the
company s income and cash flow performance and its financial position. 

The notes follow the Consolidated Financial
Statements. Among other items, the notes contain the company s accounting policies
(pages 66 to 76), acquisitions and divestitures (pages 78 through 83), detailed
information on specific items within the financial statements, certain
contingencies and commitments (pages 97 to 99), and retirement-related benefits
information (pages 106 to 116). 

The reference to  adjusted for currency  in
the Management Discussion is made so that certain financial results can be
viewed without the impacts of fluctuating foreign currency exchange rates and
therefore facilitates a comparative view of business performance. See  Currency
Rate Fluctuations  on page 51 for additional information. 

Within the financial tables in this Annual
Report, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers
for disclosure purposes. Percentages reported in the financial tables
throughout this Annual Report are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar
numbers. 

DISCONTINUED
OPERATIONS   

On December 31, 2002, the company sold its hard disk drive (HDD)
business to Hitachi, Ltd. (Hitachi). The HDD business was accounted for as a
discontinued operation under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP)
and therefore, the HDD results of operations and cash flows have been removed
from the company s results of continuing operations and cash flows for all
periods presented in this document except 2008, in which there was no activity.
See page 44 for additional information.  

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements   

Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute
forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements involve a number of risks,
uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to be
materially different, as discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report
and in the company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC),
including the company s 2008 Form 10-K filed on February 24, 2009.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP   

18   

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS   

18   

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT   

19   

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

18  

Management
Discussion Snapshot     

*     2.3 percent adjusted for currency. 

  ** At December 31.  

  NM Not meaningful  

CONTINUING OPERATIONS   

In 2008, the company performed
extremely well in a difficult economic environment, delivering record levels of
revenue, pre-tax profit, earnings per share and cash flow from operations. The
financial performance reflected the continuing strength of the company s global
model and the results of the ongoing transformation of the business. The key
elements of the company s transformation include:  

A
continuing shift to higher value businesses; 

Investing
for growth in the emerging markets; 

Global
integration; 

Investing
in innovation; and 

Ongoing
productivity resulting in higher profit margins. 

Overall, the company capitalized on
the opportunities in the global economies, generating approximately 65 percent
of its revenue outside the United States (U.S), in delivering full year growth
of 4.9 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). Revenue increased in all
geographies, both on an as reported basis and adjusted for currency   the
revenue performance, adjusted for currency, was stable throughout the year as
the company focused on solutions that meet clients  needs. Revenue from the
company s growth markets organization increased 9.8 percent (10 percent
adjusted for currency). In these markets, where the growth is driven by the
infrastructure build-out, the company invested aggressively to capture these
opportunities. For the full year and in the fourth quarter, growth in these
markets, adjusted for currency, was 8 points greater than the major markets.  

Gross profit margins
improved, reflecting the shift to higher value businesses, pricing for value
and the continued focus on productivity and cost management. Pre-tax income
from continuing operations grew 15.4 percent and net income from continuing
operations increased 18.4 percent reflecting an improvement in the company s
tax rate. Diluted earnings per share improved 24.4 percent reflecting the
strong growth in net income and the benefits of the common stock repurchase
program. In 2008, the company repurchased approximately 90 million shares of
its common stock.  

The increase in 2008 revenue was
primarily due to:  

Continued
strong performance from Global Technology Services and Global Business Services
with growth in all business lines and geographic units; 

Continued
strong demand in the Software business, driven by Key Branded Middleware
products, with strong contributions from strategic acquisitions; and 

Continued
strength in the growth markets. 

The increase in income from
continuing operations before income taxes in 2008 was primarily due to the
revenue growth and gross profit margin improvements in the Global Services and
Software segments.  

The consolidated gross profit
margin increased 1.8 points versus 2007 to 44.1 percent. Gross margin
performance by segment and the impact to the consolidated gross margin was as
follows:  

19  

Total expense and other
income increased 6.3 percent in 2008 versus 2007. The year-to-year drivers were
approximately:  

Operational
expense, -1 point 

Acquisitions,
+5 points 

Currency,
+2 points 

The effective tax rate for
2008 was 26.2 percent, compared with 28.1 percent in 2007. The decrease in the
tax rate was primarily due to increased utilization of tax credits.  

At December 31, 2008,
the company s balance sheet and liquidity positions remained strong. Cash on
hand was $12,741 million. Total debt decreased $1,349 million year to year, and
the company generated $18,812 million in operating cash flow in 2008. The
company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations and also
continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital
markets and its global credit facility.  

Key drivers in the company s
balance sheet and total cash flows are highlighted below.  

Total assets decreased
$10,907 million ($5,854 million adjusted for currency) primarily due to
decreases in cash and cash equivalents ($2,250 million), prepaid pension assets
($15,816 million), short-term marketable securities ($989 million) and total
financing receivables ($1,233 million). These decreases were partially offset
by increases in long-term deferred taxes ($5,757 million), goodwill ($3,941
million) and intangible assets ($771 million).  

Total liabilities increased
$4,097 million ($5,275 million adjusted for currency) driven primarily by increases
in retirement and non-pension postretirement benefit obligations ($5,871
million) and total deferred income ($547 million), partially offset by
decreases in total debt ($1,349 million) and accounts payable ($1,041 million).  

Stockholders  equity of
$13,465 million decreased $15,004 million versus 2007. Net income of $12,334
million was offset by the effects of pension remeasurements and other
retirement-related items ($14,856 million), common/treasury stock activity
($6,322 million), dividends ($2,585 million) and equity translation adjustments
($3,552 million).  

The company generated $18,812
million in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $2,718
million, compared to 2007, primarily driven by increased net income ($1,916
million). Net cash used in investing activities of $9,285 million was $4,611
million higher than 2007, primarily due to increased spending for acquisitions
($5,304 million). Net cash used in financing activities of $11,834 million
increased $7,095 million primarily due to debt transactions ($14,556 million),
partially offset by lower common stock repurchases ($8,249 million) in 2008
versus 2007.  

Total Global Services
signings increased 2 percent to $57,182 million ($49,738 million adjusted for
currency, flat versus 2007). Short-term signings were $26,831 million, an
increase of 8 percent year to year (5 percent adjusted for currency), while
long-term signings were $30,351 million, a decrease of 3 percent (5 percent
adjusted for currency). The estimated Global Services backlog, adjusted for
currency, was $117 billion at December 31, 2008, down $2 billion versus
the December 31, 2007 balance.  

For additional information
and details, see the  Year in Review  section on pages 25 to 39.  

Description
of Business   

Please refer to IBM s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed
with the SEC on February 24, 2009 for a more detailed version of this
Description of Business, especially Item 1A. entitled  Risk Factors.    

The company creates business
value for clients and solves business problems through integrated solutions
that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes.
IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client s operational costs
or by enabling new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw
from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation
services, enterprise software, systems and financing.  

STRATEGY   

In IBM s view, today s networked
economy has created a global business landscape and a mandate for business
change. It also opens the opportunity to upgrade the efficiency and
effectiveness of the global infrastructure through embedded information
technology   what IBM calls a  smarter planet.  Smart airports, smart highways,
smart supply chains are all possible. IBM is working with clients and
governments around the world to explore these opportunities and implement new
ideas.  

Integrated global economies
have opened markets of new opportunity and new sources of skills. The Internet
has enabled communication and collaboration across the world and brought with
it a new computing model premised on continuous global connection. In that
landscape, companies can distribute work and technology anywhere in the world.
IBM continues to adjust its footprint toward emerging geographies, tapping
their higher growth, providing the technology infrastructure they need and
taking advantage of the talent pools they provide to better service the company s
clients.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT   

19   

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   

20   

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

20  

At the same time, the current
economic crisis increases the pressure on both businesses and governments
around the world to adapt. The needs for additional transparency, security and
efficiencies are clear.  

Given these opportunities and
economic challenges, IBM is working with its clients to develop new business
designs and technical architectures that allow their businesses the flexibility
required to compete in this new landscape. IBM s strategy addresses this new
era and delivers value to its clients through three strategic priorities:  

Focus on
Open Technologies and High-Value Solutions   

A new computing model has emerged,
replacing the PC-based, client/server approach. This new model is networked,
modular, open and represents a fundamental shift in the technology requirements
of the company s clients. IBM is well positioned to provide its enterprise
clients the open technologies and high-value solutions they will need to
compete.  

IBM
is leveraging its leadership position in the convergence of software and
services, in service oriented architecture (SOA), in virtualization, in
business intelligence and analytics, in open and modular information technology
(IT)   continuing its shift from commoditizing segments to higher value
segments with better profit opportunity. 

The
company continues to be a leading force in open source solutions to enable its
clients to achieve higher levels of interoperability, cost efficiency and
quality. 

Deliver
Integration and Innovation to Clients   

Changes in the market have caused
IBM s clients to seek flexibility and innovation in everything from technical
architecture to their business model. In response, IBM is focused on delivering
integration and innovation to its clients   offering them technologies and
services that support real value creation.  

IBM
has a long heritage of transforming the business operations of large
enterprises and has earned the trust to be their innovation partner and global
integrator. 

The
company has an extensive set of global assets and capabilities it is applying
to improve services profitability, both for its clients and for itself. 

Become the
Premier Globally Integrated Enterprise   

As global networks and technology
capabilities change business economics, legacy business designs can quickly
become noncompetitive. IBM believes a globally integrated enterprise, designed
for this new landscape, can compete effectively and will benefit from the
opportunities offered.  

To
reshape its business for the global economy, IBM has replaced vertical
hierarchies with horizontally integrated teams. 

Across
the business, the company has made significant investments in emerging markets,
taking core processes and functions that were once managed regionally and
shifting them to a globally integrated model. 

Looking forward, IBM is confident
it understands the economic shift of globalization, the evolution of the new
computing model and the powerful role of innovation in this new landscape. Its
unique capabilities are well adapted to help the company s clients innovate and
compete effectively in this new environment.  

BUSINESS
MODEL   

The company s business model is
built to support two principal goals: helping clients succeed in delivering
business value by becoming more innovative, efficient and competitive through
the use of business insight and IT solutions; and, providing long-term value to
shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic
investments in capabilities and technologies that have the best long-term
growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.  

The company s global
capabilities include services, software, hardware, fundamental research and
related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to
provide business insight and solutions for the company s clients.  

The business model is
flexible, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic
environment. The company has divested commoditizing businesses like personal
computers and hard disk drives, and strengthened its position through strategic
investments and acquisitions in higher value segments like business
intelligence and analytics, virtualization and green solutions. In addition,
the company has transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise which
has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and participation
in the world s fastest growing markets. As a result, the company is a higher performing
enterprise today than it was several years ago.  

The business model, supported
by the company s long-term financial model, has enabled the company to deliver
consistently strong earnings, cash flows and returns on invested capital in
changing economic environments.  

21  

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND
CAPABILITIES   

The
company s major operations are comprised of: a Global Technology Services
segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Software segment; a Systems and Technology
segment; and a Global Financing segment.  

Global Services  is a critical component of the company s
strategy of    providing IT infrastructure and business
insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include industry-leading
IBM software and hardware, other suppliers  products are also used if a client
solution requires it. Within Global Services there are two reportable segments:
Global Technology Services and Global Business Services. 

Global Technology Services (GTS)   primarily provides IT    infrastructure services and business process
services, delivering business value through the company s global scale,
standardization and automation. 

GTS
CAPABILITIES   

Strategic Outsourcing Services.   Comprehensive IT services integrated    with business insight working with clients to
reduce costs and improve productivity through the outsourcing of processes and
operations. 

Integrated Technology Services.   Services offerings that help clients    access, manage and support their technology
infrastructures, through a combination of skilled resources, software and IBM s
knowledge of business processes. The portfolio includes Service Product Lines
which complement hardware from Systems and Technology and software offerings
from the Software business. 

Business Transformation Outsourcing.   A range of offerings from standardized
processing platforms and Business Process Outsourcing through transformational
offerings that deliver improved business results to clients through the
strategic change and/or operation of the client s business processes,
applications and infrastructure. 

Maintenance.   A number of support services from product maintenance    through solution support to maintain and
improve the availability of clients  IT infrastructure. 

Global Business Services (GBS)   primarily provides professional    services and application outsourcing services,
delivering business value and innovation to clients through solutions which
leverage industry- and business-process expertise. 

GBS
CAPABILITIES   

Consulting and Systems Integration.   Delivery of value to clients through    consulting services for client-relationship
management, financial management, human-capital management, business strategy
and change, and supply-chain management. 

Application Management Services.   Application development, management,
maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and
legacy applications. Value is delivered through the company s global resource
capabilities, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application
development. 

Software   consists primarily of middleware and operating systems    software. Middleware software enables clients
to integrate systems, processes and applications across a standard software
platform. IBM middleware is designed to open standards which allows the
efficient integration of disparate client applications that may have been built
internally, or provided by packaged software vendors or system integrators.
Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately
two-thirds of external software segment revenue is annuity-based, coming from
recurring license charges and ongoing subscription and support from one-time
charge (OTC) arrangements. The remaining one-third of external revenue relates
to OTC arrangements, in which the client pays one up-front payment for a
perpetual license. Typically, arrangements for the sale of OTC software include
one year of maintenance. The client can also purchase ongoing maintenance after
the first year, which includes product upgrades and technical support. 

SOFTWARE
CAPABILITIES   

WebSphere Software.   Management of a wide variety of business
processes    using open standards to interconnect
applications, data and operating systems. Provides the foundation for
Web-enabled applications and is a key product set in deploying a SOA. 

Information Management Software.   Advanced database, content management,
information integration and business intelligence software that helps companies
integrate, manage and gain value from their business information. 

Tivoli Software.   Software for infrastructure management, including    security and storage management that will help
organizations better manage their IT infrastructure to more effectively deliver
IT services. 

Lotus Software.   Collaboration, messaging and social networking software that enables
businesses to communicate, collaborate and increase productivity. 

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   

20   

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

22  

Rational Software.   Software tools that help
clients manage their software development processes and capabilities. With the
acquisition of Telelogic in 2008, Rational software supports software
development for both IT solutions and embedded system solutions. 

Operating Systems.   Software that manages the
fundamental processes    that make computers run. 

Systems and Technology   provides
clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage
capabilities. Approximately 55 percent of Systems and Technology s server and
storage sales transactions are through the company s business partners;
approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user clients. In addition, Systems
and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology and products,
packaging solutions and engineering technology services to clients and for IBM s
own advanced technology needs. 

SYSTEMS AND
TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES   

Servers.   IBM systems, which are
typically connected to a network and    provide the required infrastructure
for business. These systems use both IBM and non-IBM operating systems, and all
IBM servers can also run Linux, a key open source operating system. (System z,
legacy System i, converged System p and System x). 

Storage.   Information infrastructure
products and solutions, which    address critical client
requirements for information retention and archiving, availability and
virtualization, and security and compliance. The portfolio consists of a broad
range of disk and tape storage systems and software. 

Microelectronics.   Semiconductor design and
manufacturing primarily    for use in IBM systems and for sale
to external clients (OEM). 

Retail Store Solutions.   Point-of-sale
retail systems (network connected    cash registers) as well as solutions
which connect them to other store systems. 

Global
Financing   is described on pages 53 through 57. 

GLOBAL
FINANCING CAPABILITIES   

Client Financing.   Lease and loan financing to
end users and internal    clients for terms generally between
two and seven years. 

Commercial Financing.   Short-term
inventory and accounts receivable    financing to dealers and
remarketers of IT products. 

Remarketing.   The sale and lease of used
equipment (primarily sourced    from the conclusion of lease
transactions) to new or existing clients. 

IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS   

The following worldwide
organizations play key roles in IBM s delivery of value to its clients:  

Sales
and Distribution 

Research,
Development and Intellectual Property 

Integrated
Supply Chain 

Integrated
Technology Delivery 

Business
Process Delivery 

Sales and
Distribution   

IBM has a significant global
presence, operating in over 170 countries, with an increasingly broad-based
geographic distribution of revenue. The company s Sales and Distribution
organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country based
operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units, client
relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product
specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients  business
performance. These teams deliver value by understanding the clients  business
and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an
extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions.  

By combining global expertise
with local experience, IBM s geographic structure enables dedicated management
focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align
industry-skilled resources to serve clients  agendas. IBM extends capabilities
to mid-market client segments by leveraging industry skills with marketing,
ibm.com and local Business Partner resources.  

In 2008, the company
implemented a new growth markets organization to increase its focus on the
emerging markets of Brazil, Russia, India and China and the additional
opportunities around the world that have market growth rates greater than the
global average   countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle
East and Latin America. The company s major markets include the United States,
Canada, the U.K., France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland,
Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Cyprus,
Norway, Israel, Spain, the Bahamas and the Caribbean region.  

The majority of IBM s
revenue, excluding the company s original equipment manufacturer (OEM)
technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six
sectors:  

Financial Services: Banking,
Financial Markets, Insurance 

Public: Education,
Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences 

Industrial: Aerospace and
Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics 

23  

Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation 

Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and
Utilities 

Small and Medium Business: Mainly companies with less than 1,000
employees 

Research,
Development and Intellectual Property   

IBM s
research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from
its competitors. IBM annually spends approximately $6 billion for R D,
focusing its investments on high-growth, high-value opportunities. As a result
of innovations in these and other areas, IBM was once again awarded more U.S.
patents in 2008 than any other company, the first company to achieve over 4,000
patents in a year. The company will continue to actively seek intellectual
property protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other
initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual property leadership and
promote innovation.  

In addition to producing world-class hardware and software products, IBM
innovations are also a major differentiator in providing solutions for the
company s clients through its services businesses. The company s investments in
R D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1
billion annually. Some of IBM s technological breakthroughs are used
exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in
either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company s
various proprietary intellectual property rights are important to its success,
IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any
particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses.
IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration,
relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are
being granted to others under reasonable terms and conditions.  

Integrated
Supply Chain   

Consistent
with the company s work with clients to transform their supply chains for
greater efficiency and responsiveness to global market conditions, the company
continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply
chain, which provides a strategic advantage for the company to create value for
clients. IBM leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its
supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help
operate clients  end-to-end supply-chain processes, from procurement to
logistics.  

IBM spends approximately $38 billion annually through its supply chain,
procuring materials and services globally. The supply, manufacturing and
logistics and customer fulfillment operations are integrated in one operating
unit that has optimized inventories over time, improved response to marketplace
opportunities and external risks and converted fixed costs to variable costs.
Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations, sales
force productivity and processes, and these actions have improved client
satisfaction.  

Integrated
Technology Delivery   

Integrated
Technology Delivery (ITD) combines all of the worldwide service delivery
capabilities for Strategic Outsourcing with strong local and regional
management teams supported by a set of global competencies. ITD leverages the
company s global scale and advanced technology to deliver standardized
solutions that are automated, repeatable and globally integrated. Clients gain
cost advantages, access to industry-leading skills and IBM s scale and overall
flexibility. ITD manages the world s largest privately-owned IT infrastructure
with employees in over 40 countries supporting over 450 data centers.  

Business
Process Delivery   

Business
Process Delivery (BPD) provides highly efficient, world-class delivery
capabilities in IBM s business process delivery operations, which include
Business Transformation Outsourcing, Business Process Outsourcing and Business
Process Services. BPD has employees and delivery centers in over 40 countries
worldwide.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   

20   

YEAR IN REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

24  

Year in
Review   

RESULTS OF CONTINUING OPERATIONS   

Segment
Details   

The following is an analysis
of the 2008 versus 2007 reportable segment results. The analysis of 2007 versus
2006 reportable segment results is on pages 39 to 42.  

The
following table presents each reportable segment s external revenue and gross
margin results.  

The
following table presents each reportable segment s external revenue as a
percentage of total segment revenue and each reportable segment s pre-tax
income as a percentage of total segment pre-tax income.  

*   Segment pre-tax income includes transactions
between segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price.  

25  

In 2008, Global Services and
Software increased as a percentage of total segment revenue and total segment
pre-tax income. Global Services increased its revenue and profit contribution
by 2.0 points and 4.5 points, respectively, while the Software business
increased by 1.1 points and 0.8 points, respectively. These improvements
reflect the company s portfolio actions and targeted investment strategies   both
aimed at market segments that present the best long-term opportunities.  

Global Services   

The Global Services segments,
Global Technology Services (GTS) and Global Business Services (GBS), had
combined revenue of $58,891 million, an increase of 8.8 percent (6 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2008 when compared to 2007. Revenue performance was
broad based across the segments, lines of business and geographic units, driven
primarily by a strong annuity base and growth in short-term signings.  

In 2008, total Global
Services signings increased 2 percent year to year to $57,182 million ($49,738
million adjusted for currency, flat year to year). Short-term signings were
$26,831 million, an increase of 8 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency)
versus 2007. Short-term signings increased in both the growth markets and the
major markets. Long-term signings were $30,351 million, a decrease of 3 percent
(5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to 2007. Long-term signings declined
in both the major and growth markets. The total Global Services backlog
decreased $2 billion from the prior year to an estimated $117 billion at December 31,
2008.  

The Global Services segments
leveraged very strong margin performance and delivered combined pre-tax profit
of $7,288 million in 2008, an improvement of 29.6 percent versus 2007. The
services business contributed approximately 42 percent of the company s segment
pre-tax profit in 2008. Through its transformation initiatives, the Global
Services business has focused on higher value offerings with a more flexible
labor model that can adapt to changing market environments.  

Global Technology Services revenue
increased 8.8 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007
with strong performance across all lines of business. Total signings in GTS
increased 1 percent (flat adjusted for currency) led by short-term signings
growth of 5 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency). Long-term signings
decreased 1 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  

Strategic Outsourcing (SO)
revenue was up 7.9 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) with growth in all
geographies, driven by prior year s signings and continued growth in the base
accounts. SO signings in 2008 increased 3 percent (1 percent adjusted for
currency) when compared to 2007. Signings were very strong in the fourth
quarter (up 20 percent), as clients focused on the value of the SO offerings in
the current environment. The initiatives around standardization, global
integration and improved efficiency are driving improvements in quality and
customer satisfaction which are reflected in the signings performance and in
improved profitability.  

Information Technology
Services (ITS) revenue increased 10.0 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2008 versus 2007 led by growth in key infrastructure offerings such as Green
Data Center and Converged Communications. ITS infrastructure offerings deliver
high-value, standardized, asset-based services that leverage the company s
services, hardware and software capabilities, providing clients end-to-end
solutions and processes that transform their businesses. ITS signings increased
5 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008.  

Business Transformation
Outsourcing (BTO) revenue increased 11.2 percent (12 percent adjusted for
currency) with growth in all geographies, led by Asia Pacific. The Daksh
business, which is focused on business process outsourcing, delivered strong
growth. BTO signings decreased 18 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency) in
2008 compared to 2007.  

Maintenance revenue increased
8.7 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) with growth in availability
services on both IBM and non-IBM IT equipment.  

Global Business Services
revenue increased 8.8 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008, with
balanced growth across all three geographies. Revenue performance was led by
growth in Application Management Services (12.5 percent) and Core Consulting
(6.1 percent). Total signings in GBS increased 2 percent (decreased 1 percent
adjusted for currency), led by a 10 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency)
growth in short-term signings. Short-term signings growth was driven by
offerings that enable clients to reduce cost and conserve capital. In the
second half of the year, signings for transformational and compliance offerings
also increased. Long-term signings decreased 14 percent (16 percent adjusted
for currency) year over year.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

26  

GTS gross profit increased 18.5 percent
compared to 2007, with gross profit margin improving 2.7 points. All lines of
business delivered gross margin expansion year over year driven by a
combination of a mix to higher value offerings and an improved cost structure.
Segment pre-tax profit increased 29.5 percent to $4,607 million with a pre-tax
margin of 11.3 percent, an increase of 1.9 points versus 2007. GTS has
delivered six consecutive quarters of double-digit pre-tax profit growth. The
margin improvement was driven primarily by a delivery structure that maximizes
utilization and flexibility, a mix to higher value offerings, lower retirement-related
costs and improved productivity.  

GBS gross profit increased
23.5 percent to $5,238 million in 2008 when compared to 2007, and the gross
profit margin improved 3.2 points. Segment pre-tax profit increased 29.9
percent to $2,681 million with a pre-tax margin of 13.0 percent, an improvement
of 2.2 points year over year. This was the third straight year of profit growth
greater than 20 percent in GBS and demonstrates the results of a strong
operating discipline and the benefits of a globally integrated operating model.
The margin expansion was driven by improved utilization, cost and expense
management, stable pricing and lower retirement-related costs.  

Global Services
Signings    

The tables below present Global Services
signings as reported and adjusted for currency. Signings at actual currency
rates provide investors a better view of how these signings will convert to
services revenue and provide better comparability to other companies in the
industry who report signings using actual rates.  

At Actual Currency Rates   

Adjusted for Currency   

Global Services signings are management s
initial estimate of the revenue value of a client s commitment under a Global
Services contract. Signings are used by management to assess period performance
of Global Services management. There are no third-party standards or
requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by
management includes an approximation of currency and involves estimates and
judgments to gauge the extent of a client s commitment, including the type and
duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down
costs. For example, for long-term contracts that require significant up-front
investment by the company, the portions of these contracts that constitute a
signing are those periods in which there is a significant economic impact on
the client if the commitment is not achieved, usually through a termination
charge or the client incurring significant wind-down costs as a result of the
termination. For short-term contracts that do not require significant upfront
investments, a signing is usually equal to the full contract revenue value.
Long-term contracts represent SO and BTO contracts as well as GBS contracts
with the U.S. Federal government and its agencies and Application Management
Services (AMS) for custom and legacy applications. Short-term contracts
represent the remaining GBS offerings of Consulting and Systems Integration,
AMS for packaged applications and ITS contracts.  

Signings include SO, BTO,
ITS and GBS contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated
as signings only to the extent of the incremental new revenue value.
Maintenance is not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to be
more steady state, where revenues equal renewals.  

Backlog includes SO, BTO,
ITS, GBS and Maintenance. Backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work
under contract and therefore does include Maintenance. Backlog estimates are
subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations,
changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for
revenue not materialized and currency assumptions used to approximate constant
currency.  

27  

Contract portfolios
purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments
provided those contracts meet the company s requirements for initial signings.
A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed
incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture.  

SOFTWARE   

Software segment revenue of $22,089 million
increased 10.5 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 led by growth
in the Key Branded Middleware products and strong contributions from the
annuity base and acquisitions. Clients continue to embed the company s software
in the fabric of their IT infrastructures.  

Key Branded Middleware
revenue increased 14.4 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) and
represented 56 percent of total Software segment revenue, an increase of 2
points from 2007. When adjusted for currency, growth in 2008 was led by
Information Management, Rational and Lotus. Strategic acquisitions, including Cognos
and Telelogic, have extended the segment s middleware capabilities.  

WebSphere Family revenue
increased 6.2 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 and was led by
growth in WebSphere Application Servers and WebSphere Business Integration software.
In December 2008, the company completed the acquisition of ILOG, whose
products help customers improve business decisions with optimization,
visualization and business rules software. The WebSphere products provide
the foundation for Web-enabled applications and are a key product set in
deploying a client s SOA. Information Management revenue increased 24.5 percent
(22 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus the prior year, reflecting
contribution from Cognos and strong demand for the distributed relational
database products. Cognos  performance management solution helps customers
improve decision-making across the enterprise to optimize business performance.  

Lotus revenue increased 10.4
percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 led by growth in Lotus Notes
products as customers continue to invest to improve their workforce efficiency.
Lotus software is well established as a tool for providing improved workplace
collaboration and productivity.  

Tivoli revenue increased 2.9
percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 when compared to 2007.
Revenue performance was led by growth in Tivoli Security and Storage Management
products. Tivoli software provides the advanced capabilities required to run
large mission-critical environments. This includes security and storage
software which helps customers improve utilization and reduce costs.  

Rational revenue increased
13.2 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 driven primarily by
Telelogic contributions. Telelogic s suite of system programming tools
complements Rational s IT tool set, providing a common framework for software
and systems delivery across a client s enterprise.  

Revenue from Other
middleware products increased 5.2 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in
2008 versus the prior year. This software product set includes more mature
products which provide a more stable flow of revenue.  

Other software segment
revenue increased 34.4 percent (31 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2007
reflecting continued growth in software-related services.  

Software segment gross profit increased 10.8
percent to $18,859 million in 2008, driven primarily by the strong revenue
growth. The large annuity base of this business continues to provide a
predictable and growing profit stream. Gross profit margin was 85.4 percent in
2008, an increase of 0.2 points versus 2007. The company has been investing
significantly in the software business with good results. The Software segment
contributed $7,075 million of pre-tax profit in 2008, an increase of 17.9
percent versus 2007 while successfully integrating Cognos and Telelogic.
Software contributed approximately 40 percent of the company s segment pre-tax
profit in 2008. The segment pre-tax profit margin increased 1.7 points to 28.5
percent. The pre-tax income and margin improvements have been driven primarily
by revenue growth and increasing operational efficiencies.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
  SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN
  REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

28  

SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY   

NM Not meaningful  

Systems and Technology segment revenue
decreased 9.5 percent (down 11 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus
2007. In June 2007, the company divested its printing business. Systems
and Technology revenue, excluding the divested printing business, decreased 7.8
percent (9 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. Total Systems
revenue decreased 4.9 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus
2007.  

In the current economic
environment, clients are focused on reducing the cost of running their IT
infrastructure. Virtualization, which provides the capability to run multiple
workloads on a single server, is a key enabler of efficiency. System z is the
leading platform for virtualization as it is able to support thousands of
images and operate fully utilized. The company s POWER architecture supports
hundreds of partitions, often driving utilization rates of over 60 percent.
Both of these platforms leverage the entire system, from the company s custom
semiconductors through the software stack, to achieve these high levels of
efficiency and lower cost of ownership. The distributed computing model, which
utilizes many small servers, cannot offer the same level of efficiency and
value.  

System z revenue increased
12.5 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. System z
revenue growth was particularly strong in the Americas (up 19 percent), as well
as in the Financial Services and Industrial sectors globally. Clients in
emerging markets also leveraged this platform s stability and efficiency during
2008. MIPS (millions of instructions per second) shipments increased 25 percent
in 2008 versus 2007, posting double-digit growth in each quarter, reflecting
strength in both traditional and specialty workloads. Specialty MIPS increased
68 percent in 2008, as clients exploit the capabilities of System z to bring
new Linux and Java applications to this highly efficient and cost effective
platform.  

Converged System p revenue
increased 11.2 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007, reflecting
solid demand for the energy efficiencies and multi-operating system
capabilities of POWER6 technology. Clients are concluding that POWER6
technology is the right solution for a multitude of workloads. The revenue
growth was primarily driven by midrange servers which increased 32 percent and
high-end servers which increased 3 percent in 2008 versus 2007.  

Legacy System i revenue
decreased 66.1 percent (67 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007,
as the company continues to transition the System i customer base to the
converged POWER platform within System p.  

System x revenue decreased
16.9 percent (19 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. System x
server revenue declined 15 percent and blades revenue decreased 3 percent, in
2008 versus 2007, respectively. The decline in server revenue reflects a
significant slowdown in the x86 market, especially in the second half of 2008,
as clients are virtualizing and consolidating workloads onto more efficient
platforms such as POWER and mainframe.  

System Storage revenue
decreased 3.4 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007.
Total disk revenue was essentially flat in 2008 versus 2007. Enterprise Disk
revenue increased 2 percent primarily due to increased demand for the DS8000
product, while midrange disk revenue declined 15 percent. Tape revenue declined
10 percent in 2008 primarily due to reduced demand and clients deciding to
purchase additional media to expand the utilization of their existing devices.  

Microelectronics OEM revenue
decreased 25.1 percent (25 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007.
The primary mission of this business is to provide leadership technology for
the systems business, as demonstrated during 2008 in the new System z10 mainframe
and POWER6 systems.  

Retail Stores Solutions
revenue decreased 15.0 percent (16 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008
versus 2007, reflecting weakness in the retail sector and a compare to a strong
2007, when a new programmable point-of-sale solution was being delivered to
large clients.  

29  

Overall, gross margin decreased by 1.7 points
versus the prior year. This decrease was primarily driven by margin declines in
System z, System x and Microelectronics OEM which impacted the overall margin
by 1.6 points, 1.3 points and 1.2 points, respectively. Partially offsetting
these margin declines was a revenue mix benefit of 2.7 points due to the
increased revenue in System z and Converged System p.  

Systems and Technology
segment pre-tax margin declined 2.0 points to 7.7 percent in 2008 reflecting
the lower revenue and gross profit margin in 2008 versus 2007.  

GLOBAL
FINANCING   

See pages 53 and 54 for an analysis of
Global Financing s segment results.  

GEOGRAPHIC
REVENUE   

In addition to the revenue presentation by
reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a
geographic basis. The following geographic, regional and country-specific
revenue performance discussion excludes OEM revenue, which is presented
separately.  

Geographic revenue increased 5.9 percent (3
percent adjusted for currency) to $100,939 million in 2008 when compared to
2007. Revenue increased in all geographies in 2008, and adjusted for currency,
revenue growth was strongest in the Americas followed by Europe and Asia
Pacific. Revenue from the company s growth markets organization increased 9.8
percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) while growth in the more established
major markets was 5.1 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  

Americas revenue increased
4.1 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008. Revenue increased in all
regions with the U.S. up 2.9 percent, Canada 5.6 percent (6 percent adjusted
for currency) and Latin America 13.9 percent (11 percent adjusted for
currency).  

Europe/Middle East/Africa
(EMEA) revenue increased 6.7 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008
when compared to 2007. The majority of major market countries performed well
led by Spain which grew 12.0 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency), Germany
increased 10.8 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) and France increased
9.0 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). Italy increased 5.8 percent
(decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) while the U.K. decreased 4.9
percent (increased 4 percent adjusted for currency).  

Asia Pacific revenue
increased 8.3 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) year over year. Revenue
increased in the India, South Korea, ASEAN, Australia/New Zealand and China
regions with combined growth of 8.1 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency).
Japan revenue, which represented 49 percent of the Asia Pacific revenue base,
increased 8.5 percent as reported, but decreased 5 percent adjusted for
currency in 2008 when compared to 2007.  

Across the geographies,
aggregate revenue from the countries comprising the company s growth markets
organization increased 9.8 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008
and represented approximately 18 percent of the company s total geographic
revenue. The company has continued to invest to capture new infrastructure
spending in the growth markets. Adjusted for currency, growth in these markets
was 8 points higher than in the major markets. The BRIC countries, a subset of
the growth markets, together grew 17.6 percent (15 percent adjusted for
currency), with growth in India of 25.8 percent (33 percent adjusted for
currency), Brazil 18.3 percent (13 percent adjusted for currency), China 14.7
percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) and Russia 11.0 percent (11 percent
adjusted for currency).  

OEM revenue decreased 22.4
percent (23 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 when compared to 2007,
driven by reduced demand in the Microelectronics OEM business.  

TOTAL EXPENSE AND OTHER INCOME   

The key drivers year to year in total expense
and other income were approximately:  

Operational
expense, -1 point 

Acquisitions,
+5 points 

Currency,
+2 points 

In 2008, the company continued to focus on
productivity improvements in its more established markets and increased its
investments in the growth markets. Within selling, general and administrative
expense (SG A), total sales and marketing expense increased 4 percent year
to year (2 percent adjusted for currency). Sales and marketing expense in the
growth markets increased 13 percent (13 percent  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

30  

adjusted
for currency), as compared to major markets where sales and marketing expense
increased 3 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. On a
consolidated basis, general and administrative expenses, which are indirect
expenses incurred in the business, increased 2 percent (flat at constant
currency) year to year.  

Selling, General and Administrative    

Total
SG A expense increased 6.0 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in
2008 versus 2007. The increase in SG A was primarily due to acquisition
related spending, predominantly for Cognos and Telelogic, which accounted for 5
points of the increase, while the effects of currency accounted for 2 points.
Workforce reductions ongoing expense increased $387 million primarily due to
charges recorded in the fourth quarter reflecting workforce actions in Japan
($120 million) and other ongoing skills rebalancing that is a regular element
of the company s business model. In addition, bad debt expense increased $206
million primarily driven by additional specific accounts receivable reserves
reflecting the current economic environment in many industries. The company s
accounts receivable provision coverage at year end is 2.0 percent, an increase
of 50 basis points from year-end 2007. These increases were partially offset by
lower retirement-related expense of $287 million.  

Other (Income) and Expense    

* Reclassified to conform with 2008
presentation.  

  NM Not meaningful  

Other
(income) and expense was income of $298 million and $626 million in 2008 and
2007, respectively. The decrease in income was primarily driven by higher
foreign currency transaction losses ($285 million) and lower interest income
reflecting lower cash balances and the current interest rate environment ($222
million). These decreases were partially offset by a gain on derivative
instruments which primarily hedge foreign currency risks ($221 million).
Included within the foreign currency hedging activity, the company hedges its
major cross-border cash flows to mitigate the effect of currency volatility in
its global cash planning, which also reduces volatility in the year-over-year
results. The impact of these hedging programs is primarily reflected in other
(income) and expense, as well as cost of goods sold. The impact of losses from
these cash flow hedges reflected in other (income) and expense was $186
million, a decrease of $24 million year to year.  

Research, Development and Engineering    

The
increase in research, development and engineering (RD E) expense was
primarily driven by acquisitions and investments to maintain technology
leadership across the company s offerings. Software spending increased $262
million, partially offset by lower spending in Systems and Technology ($54
million) and other unit spending ($74 million), while stock-based compensation
expense decreased $9 million versus 2007.  

Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income    

The
timing and amount of sales and other transfers of IP may vary significantly
from period to period depending upon timing of divestitures, industry
consolidation, economic conditions and the timing of new patents and know-how
development. While IP income increased 20.4 percent in 2008, there were no
significant individual IP transactions in 2008 or 2007. The improvement year to
year was primarily driven by the Systems and Technology business.  

31  

Interest Expense    

The increase in interest expense was
primarily due to the increase in debt in 2007 associated with the financing of
the accelerated share repurchase agreements, partially offset by lower interest
rates in 2008. See note N,  Stockholders  Equity,  on pages 95 and 96 for
additional information regarding the accelerated share repurchase. Interest
expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing
external business. See page 56 for additional information regarding Global
Financing debt and interest expense. Overall interest expense for 2008 was
$1,477 million, an increase of $46 million versus 2007.  

STOCK-BASED
COMPENSATION   

Total pre-tax stock-based compensation cost
of $659 million decreased $54 million compared to 2007. The decrease was
principally the result of a reduction in the level of stock option grants ($203
million), offset by an increase related to restricted and performance-based
share units ($149 million). The year-to-year change was reflected in the
following categories: reductions in cost ($50 million) and RD E expense ($9
million), and increases in SG A expense ($4 million) and other (income) and
expense ($1 million).  

See note T,  Stock-Based
Compensation,  on pages 103 to 106 for additional information on the
company s stock-based incentive awards.  

RETIREMENT-RELATED
BENEFITS   

The following table provides the total
pre-tax cost for all retirement-related plans. These amounts are included in
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the caption (e.g., cost,
SG A, RD E) relating to the job function of the plan participants.  

Overall, retirement-related plan costs
decreased $1,181 million versus 2007 primarily as a result of pension plan
redesign efforts and a lower level of recognized actuarial losses.  

Effective January 1,
2008, benefit accruals ceased in the IBM Personal Pension Plan, a U.S. defined
benefit plan. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in defined
contribution plans, primarily in the U.S. See note U,  Retirement-Related
Benefits,  on pages 106 to 116 for additional information on these plan
changes and all the factors driving the year-to-year change in total cost.  

Retirement-related plan
costs decreased approximately $771 million in cost, $287 million in SG A
expense, $117 million in RD E expense and $5 million in other (income) and
expense year to year.  

ACQUIRED
INTANGIBLE ASSET AMORTIZATION   

The company has been investing in targeted
acquisitions to increase its capabilities in higher value businesses. The
following table presents the total acquired intangible asset amortization
included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. See note J,  Intangible
Assets Including Goodwill,  on pages 87 and 88 for additional information.  

*  Reclassified to conform with 2008
presentation disclosing the two services segments separately.  

  NM Not meaningful  

INCOME
TAXES   

The effective tax rate for 2008 was 26.2
percent, compared with 28.1 percent in 2007. The 1.9 point decrease was
primarily driven by the 2008 net increase in the utilization of foreign and
state tax credits (2.9 points), the benefit associated with the second quarter
2008 agreement reached with the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding
claims for certain tax incentives (1.7 points) and the benefit related to
certain issues associated with newly published U.S. tax regulations (1.2
points). These benefits were partially offset by several  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
  SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN
  REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

32  

items including the net impact related to the
completion of the U.S. federal income tax examination for the years 2004 and
2005 including the associated income tax reserve redeterminations (0.5 points),
the second quarter 2008 tax cost associated with the intercompany transfer of
certain intellectual property (2.8 points) and lower capital loss utilization
in 2008 (0.7 points). The remaining items were individually insignificant.  

EARNINGS
PER SHARE   

Basic earnings per share is computed on the
basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding
during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the
weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive
potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock
method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options,
share awards, convertible notes and shares which may be required to settle
accelerated share repurchase (ASR) agreements.  

NM Not meaningful  

Actual shares outstanding at
December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were 1,339.1 million and
1,385.2 million, respectively. The average number of common shares outstanding
assuming dilution was 68.8 million shares lower in 2008 versus 2007. The decrease
was primarily the result of the company s common stock repurchase program. See
note N,  Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on pages 95 and 96 for additional
information regarding common stock activities. Also see note R,  Earnings Per
Share of Common Stock,  on page 102.  

Financial
Position   

DYNAMICS   

At December 31, 2008, the company s balance
sheet and liquidity position remain strong. Cash on hand at year-end was
$12,741 million. Total debt of $33,926 million decreased $1,349 million from
prior year-end levels. The commercial paper balance at December 31 was
$468 million, down $5,363 million from December 31, 2007. In 2008, the
company generated $18,812 million in cash from operations, an increase of
$2,718 million compared to 2007. The company has consistently generated strong
cash flow from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of
liquidity through the capital markets and its $10 billion global credit
facility.  

Consistent with retirement
and postretirement plan accounting standards, the company remeasures the funded
status of its plans at December 31. The funded status is measured as the
difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation
and is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At
December 31, 2008, primarily as a result of the returns on plan assets,
coupled with changes in certain plan assumptions and plan contributions, the
overall net funded position decreased $21,793 million from December 31,
2007 to a net under-funded position of $18,485 million. This change is
primarily reflected in prepaid pension assets and retirement and nonpension
postretirement benefit obligations which decreased $15,816 million and
increased $5,871 million respectively from year-end 2007 levels. Due to the
extreme volatility in the equity markets in 2008, the return on IBM Personal
Pension Plan assets declined 15 percent, compared to a 14 percent increase in
2007. The company s asset return in the non-U.S. plans declined approximately
21 percent. Within the company s defined benefit plans, the net funded status
declined in 2008 due to the volatility in the financial markets. At
December 31, 2008 the company s qualified defined benefit plans worldwide
were 93 percent funded, with the U.S. qualified Personal Pension Plan 97
percent funded.  

In addition, stockholders 
equity decreased $15,004 million, net of tax, primarily as a result of changes
from pension remeasurements and current year activity within accumulated gains
and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. This is a non-cash impact to
equity and does not affect the company s access to capital markets or its
ability to meet its obligations.  

The assets and debt
associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company s
financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on pages 34
to 36 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. The amounts
appearing in the separate Global Financing section on pages 53 through 57
are supplementary data presented to facilitate an understanding of the Global
Financing business.  

33  

WORKING CAPITAL   

Working capital decreased $2,299 million
compared to the prior year primarily as a result of a net decrease in current
assets. The key drivers are described below:  

Current assets decreased $4,174 million due
to:  

A decrease of $3,239 million in cash and cash equivalents and
marketable securities (see Cash Flow analysis below and on page 35); 

A decrease of $1,235 million in short-term receivables driven by
currency impacts of $1,202 million; 

Partially offset by:  

An increase of $409 million in prepaid expenses and other current
assets primarily resulting from: 

an increase of $353 million in prepaid taxes;  

an increase of $238 million in derivative assets primarily due to changes in
foreign currency rates for certain economic hedges; and  

approximately $189 million negative currency impact.  

Current liabilities decreased $1,875 million
as a result of:  

A decrease of $1,041 million (including $260 million of negative impact
due to currency) in accounts payable primarily due to lower purchasing volumes; 

A decrease of $999 million in short-term debt primarily driven by the
reduction in commercial paper balances; and 

A decrease of $930 million (including $222 million negative currency
impact) in taxes payable; 

Partially offset by:  

An increase of $679 million in other accrued liabilities primarily due
to: 

an increase of $502 million in derivative liabilities as a result of changes in
foreign currency rates;  

an increase of $329 million in workforce reduction accruals; and  

approximately $172 million negative currency impact.  

An increase of $436 million (net of a $288 million negative currency
impact) in deferred income mainly driven by Software ($285 million) and Global
Services ($139 million). 

CASH FLOW   

The company s cash flow from operating,
investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows on page 62, is summarized in the following table. These
amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business.  

Net cash from operating activities for 2008
increased $2,718 million as compared to 2007 driven by the following key
factors:  

An increase in net income of $1,916 million; 

Decreases in accounts receivable drove an increase in cash of $1,682
million, driven by Global Financing receivables ($1,280 million) and non-Global
Financing receivables ($402 million) primarily resulting from reduced
fourth-quarter 2008 revenue and improved collections; and 

A
decrease year to year in retirement-related plan funding of $426 million. 

Partially offset by:  

Accounts
payable drove a use of cash of $718 million; and 

A
decrease in cash of $284 million driven by growth in inventory. 

Net cash used in investing activities
increased $4,611 million on a year-to-year basis driven by:  

An increase of $5,304 million utilized for acquisitions (see note C,
 Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on pages 78 through 83 for additional
information); and 

A
decrease of $239 million received from divestitures; 

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
  SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN
  REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

34  

Partially
offset by:  

The net impact of the purchases and sales of
marketable securities and other investments resulted in an increase in cash of
$642 million; and 

A
decrease in net capital spending of $431 million resulting from:   

    a decrease of $272 million
primarily driven by lower spending by Global Technology Services and Systems
and Technology; and    

     a decrease of $159 million in capitalized
software development expenditures.  

Net
cash used in financing activities increased $7,095 million compared to 2007 as
a result of:  

An
increase of $14,556 million in cash used to retire debt, net of cash proceeds,
primarily driven by higher proceeds in 2007 due to the issuance of debt for the
ASR and a decline in commercial paper in 2008; 

Higher dividend payments of $438 million; and 

A decrease of $350 million in cash received
due to lower other common stock transactions primarily due to stock option
exercises; 

Partially
offset by:  

Lower common stock repurchases of $8,249
million. 

Within
total debt, on a net basis, the company utilized $2,444 million in net cash to
retire debt versus $12,112 million in net cash proceeds in 2007. The net cash
used to retire debt in 2008 was comprised of: $10,248 million in cash payments
to settle debt and net payments of $6,025 million in short-term borrowings,
partially offset by $13,829 million of new debt issuances. See note K,  Borrowings, 
on pages 88 to 90 for a listing of the company s debt securities.  

NONCURRENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES   

The
decrease in noncurrent assets of $6,733 million compared to the prior year-end
balance was primarily driven by:  

A decrease of $15,816 million in prepaid
pension assets primarily resulting from pension remeasurements; 

A decrease of $777 million in plant, rental
machines and other property mainly due to currency impact ($576 million) and
lower capital spending primarily in Global Technology Services; and 

A decrease of $420 million in long-term
financing receivables mainly due to currency impact; 

Partially
offset by:  

An increase in deferred tax assets of $5,757
million primarily due to pension remeasurements; and 

An increase in goodwill of $3,941 million
(net of a $1,529 million negative currency impact) and an increase of $771
million (net of a $160 million negative currency impact) in intangible
assets-net primarily driven by the Cognos and Telelogic acquisitions. 

Long-term
debt decreased $350 million primarily due to reclasses to short-term debt as
certain instruments approached maturity; offset by new debt issuances.  

Other
noncurrent liabilities, excluding debt, increased $6,322 million primarily driven
by:  

An increase of $5,871 million in retirement
and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations primarily driven by pension
remeasurement; and 

An increase in noncurrent tax reserves of
$1,450 million related to unrecognized tax benefits; 

Partially
offset by:  

A decrease of $794 million in noncurrent
deferred tax liabilities primarily due to pension remeasurement; and 

A decrease of $154 million in restructuring
liabilities mainly driven by the reclass to current liabilities. 

DEBT   

The
company s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are
executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile.  

35  

The Global Financing business
provides funding predominantly for the company s external client assets as well
as for assets under contract by other IBM units. These assets, primarily for
Global Services, generate long-term, stable revenue streams similar to the
Global Financing asset portfolio. Based on their nature, these Global Services
assets are leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base. The
debt analysis on page 35 is further detailed in the Global Financing
section on page 57.  

Total debt decreased $1,177 million
in 2008 versus 2007, primarily due to reductions in commercial paper. The
debt-to-capital ratio at December 31, 2008 was 49.0 percent, an increase
of 19.0 points from December 31, 2007, primarily due to the reduction in
equity driven by the pension remeasurements.  

EQUITY   

The company s consolidated
stockholders  equity decreased $15,004 million in 2008 as a result of several
key factors:  

A
decrease of $18,431 million in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings resulted from non-cash equity impacts, primarily from pension
remeasurement and other retirement-related activities ($14,856 million), and a
decrease in foreign currency translation adjustments ($3,552 million); and 

A
decrease related to net stock transactions of $6,286 million, driven by common
stock repurchases; 

Partially offset by:  

An
increase of $9,713 million in retained earnings primarily driven by net income
of $12,334 million, partially offset by dividends ($2,585 million). 

CONSOLIDATED
FOURTH-QUARTER RESULTS   

*
(1.0) percent adjusted for currency.  

  NM
  Not meaningful  

Continuing Operations   

In the fourth quarter, in an
increasingly challenging economic environment, the company delivered solid
financial results. Total revenue decreased 6.4 percent as reported, 1.0 percent
adjusted for currency, versus the fourth quarter of 2007. Gross margin improved
3.0 points driven by margin expansion in Global Services and Software. This
improvement in gross margin coupled with focused expense management drove an
improvement year to year in pre-tax income of 5.8 percent. A lower tax rate
versus the prior year, primarily driven by the utilization of tax credits,
resulted in a 12.0 percent increase in net income. Diluted earning per share of
$3.28 increased 17.1 percent year to year.  

Management Discussion   

18   

ROAD
  MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT
  DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION
  OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR
  YEAR IN REVIEW   

39   

DISCONTINUED
  OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER
  INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL
  FINANCING  

53  

Report Of Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered
  Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

36  

Fourth quarter revenue performance was impacted by currency and the
changing economic environment, but the modest decline of 1.0 percent adjusted
for currency reflects the company s broad business capabilities and
contribution from the annuity content of the business model. Adjusted for
currency, revenue performance was led by growth in the Software and Global
Services segments offset by a decline in Systems and Technology.  

The Global Services segments combined had $14,333 million of revenue in
the fourth quarter, a decrease of 4.0 percent (increase of 2 percent adjusted
for currency) and delivered pre-tax profit of $2,177 million, an increase of
32.1 percent year to year. The services business performed exceptionally well
in the current economic environment through disciplined execution on resource
optimization and improved operating efficiencies, while at the same time
delivering services with a high level of quality and customer satisfaction.
Total signings for Global Services in the fourth quarter were $17,207 million,
a decrease of 5 percent (increase of 2 percent adjusted for currency) versus
the fourth quarter of 2007. Signings in the quarter included 24 deals larger
than $100 million. Long-term signings of $9,900 million decreased 3 percent
(increased 3 percent adjusted for currency) with a 20 percent growth in
Strategic Outsourcing signings. Short-term signings decreased 7 percent (1
percent adjusted for currency) to $7,307 million, compared to a very strong
fourth quarter of 2007.  

GTS revenue of $9,623 million decreased 3.7 percent (increased 3
percent adjusted for currency) versus the fourth quarter of 2007. GTS signings
of $11,045 million decreased 2 percent (increased 4 percent adjusted for
currency) with long-term signings increasing 4 percent (9 percent adjusted for
currency) to $8,221 million, offset by a 15 percent decrease (7 percent
adjusted for currency) in short-term signings. SO revenue decreased 3.2 percent
(increased 3 percent adjusted for currency). SO signings increased 20 percent
(23 percent adjusted for currency) led by strong signings in the U.S. and
Europe as clients turn to outsourcing s value proposition as an effective way
to attain their financial objectives in this economic climate. ITS revenue
increased 0.2 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). ITS signings decreased
15 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency), although signings in the key
infrastructure offerings continued to be good. BTO revenue decreased 19.0
percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) and signings decreased 53 percent
(44 percent adjusted for currency). GTS gross profit increased 11.8 percent in
the quarter and the gross margin improved 4.8 points with margin expansion in
all lines of business. The GTS segment fourth-quarter pre-tax profit was up
35.5 percent and the margin improved 4.1 points to 14.4 percent from
fourth-quarter 2007. This was the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit
pre-tax profit growth in GTS. The margin improvement was driven primarily by a
delivery structure that maximizes utilization and flexibility, a mix to higher
value offerings, lower total managed labor costs and a global skills mix that
efficiently moves resources to opportunities.  

GBS revenue of $4,709 million decreased 4.5 percent
(flat adjusted for currency) compared to fourth-quarter 2007. In the current
economy, offerings that deliver cost savings continued to drive the majority of
business, although demand for transformational and compliance offerings also
increased. GBS signings of $6,162 million, decreased 9 percent (3 percent
adjusted for currency), driven by a 25 percent decline (16 percent adjusted for
currency) in long-term signings. Short-term signings of $4,483 million
decreased 1 percent (increased 4 percent adjusted for currency) in the quarter.
Cost savings offerings accounted for the majority of the new signings. GBS
gross profit increased 18.5 percent in the quarter with the gross margin
improving 5.6 points. The GBS segment pre-tax profit increased 26.0 percent in
the quarter and the margin expanded 3.6 points to 14.9 percent. The margin
performance reflects a strong operating discipline and the benefits of a
globally integrated operating model. Despite slower revenue growth, utilization
improved year to year resulting from resource optimization throughout the
globally integrated capacity model as well as effective balancing of domestic,
global and subcontracted resources. GBS also benefited from continued deal
selectivity, stable pricing, lower managed labor costs and ongoing operational
efficiencies.  

Software segment revenue of $6,420 million,
increased 2.6 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency), driven by solid sales
execution and growth in mission critical production software. Customers
continue to utilize infrastructure software in their production environments to
optimize their data centers. Many large customers signed multi-year deals in
the fourth quarter demonstrating continued commitment to the company s
technology. Revenue growth was led by Americas with an increase of 13 percent,
adjusted for currency. Revenue from Key Branded Middleware increased 6.2
percent (13 percent adjusted for currency) and represented 61 percent of total
software revenue. Revenue from the WebSphere Family of products declined 0.9
percent (increased 5 percent adjusted for currency) in the quarter. Information
Management revenue increased 17.9 percent (25 percent adjusted for currency)
driven by contribution from Cognos as well as organic growth. Revenue from
Distributed Relational Database products increased over 30 percent, adjusted
for currency. Lotus revenue decreased 0.5 percent (increased 6 percent adjusted
for currency) capitalizing on the strong performance of collaboration software.
Tivoli software revenue decreased 3.8 percent (increased 4 percent adjusted for
currency). Rational revenue decreased 1.3 percent (increased 5 percent adjusted
for currency) compared to a strong fourth-quarter 2007 with revenue performance
led by Telelogic.  

Software gross profit increased 3.3 percent with
margin improvement of 0.6 points. The Software segment delivered pre-tax profit
of $2,789 million, an increase of 14.6 percent. The pre-tax margin of 39.1
percent increased 4.2 points compared to fourth-quarter 2007. The large annuity
base in the software business continues to provide a predictable and growing
stream of profit and cash.  

37  

Systems and Technology segment revenue was $5,425 million, a decrease
of 20.2 percent (16 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting growth in
high-end servers offset by a decline in x86 and storage products. System z
revenue decreased 5.9 percent (increased 1 percent adjusted for currency).
Adjusted for currency, revenue performance was led by double-digit growth in
the Americas and strong growth in the Financial Services and Industrial sectors
globally. System z continues to perform well due to its ability to consolidate
multiple workloads onto a single, virtualized platform. System z MIPS shipments
increased 12 percent year to year. This was the fourth consecutive quarter of
double-digit MIPS growth. Converged System p revenue grew 8.0 percent (14
percent adjusted for currency), driven by strong growth in both high-end and
midrange servers. This was the tenth consecutive quarter of revenue growth for
Converged System p. System x revenue decreased 33.0 percent (29 percent
adjusted for currency) reflecting a significant slowdown in the
industry-standard x86 market as customers are virtualizing and consolidating
workloads onto more efficient platforms such as POWER and mainframe. System x
server revenue declined 32 percent (28 percent adjusted for currency) with
blades down 27 percent (23 percent adjusted for currency). Legacy System i
revenue decreased 91.6 percent (91 percent adjusted for currency) as the company
continues to transition the System i customer base to the converged POWER
platform within System p. Systems Storage revenue decreased 19.9 percent (16
percent adjusted for currency) driven by revenue declines in total disk and
total tape products. Retail Store Solutions revenue decreased 27.8 percent (22
percent adjusted for currency) and Microelectronics OEM revenue declined 34.3
percent.  

Systems and Technology gross margin of 39.9 percent, declined 5.8
points versus the fourth quarter of 2007 driven by margin declines in all
system brands and Microelectronics OEM; partially offsetting these margin
declines was a revenue mix benefit due to a shift in revenue toward System z
and converged System p. Systems and Technology segment pre-tax profit decreased
47.1 percent to $722 million. Pre-tax margin declined 6.7 points to 12.7
percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2007.  

Global Financing revenue of $660 million decreased 1.3 percent
(increased 5 percent adjusted for currency). Increased financing revenue was
more than offset by a decline in sales of used equipment.  

Geographic revenue decreased 5.6 percent (flat adjusted for currency)
with mixed performance by geography. Adjusted for currency, Americas had the
strongest performance with Europe and Asia both declining year to year.
Globally, revenue in the major markets decreased 5.3 percent (1 percent
adjusted for currency) while revenue from the company s growth markets
organization decreased 7.1 percent (increased 6 percent adjusted for currency).
Americas revenue was $11,454 million, a decrease of 1.9 percent (increase of 2
percent adjusted for currency). Adjusted for currency, Latin America was up 12
percent, Canada was up 6 percent and the U.S. was flat. EMEA revenue decreased
12.2 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) to $9,468 million. Revenue
performance in the major countries was mixed when adjusted for currency, with
Germany up 7 percent, the U.K. up 4 percent, France grew 2 percent while Italy
declined 8 percent. Asia Pacific revenue decreased 0.7 percent (1 percent
adjusted for currency) to $5,469 million, with growth in the India, Australia/
New Zealand, and South Korea regions, being more than offset by declining
revenue in Japan. The company has been investing heavily in the emerging markets
to capture opportunities to build out public and private infrastructures.
Additionally, these markets benefited in the quarter from customer demand for
cost saving offerings during the current economic environment. Revenue from
these markets represented 18 percent of the company s geographic revenue in the
quarter and increased 6 percent, adjusted for currency. The BRIC countries, a
subset of the growth markets, together grew 1.6 percent (13 percent adjusted
for currency) led by double-digit growth in Brazil and India, adjusted for
currency. Russia revenue was significantly impacted by credit limitations and
declined 22 percent in the fourth quarter.  

Revenue
from the company s industry sales units decreased 5.7 percent (flat adjusted
for currency) in the fourth quarter of 2008. Public sector revenue decreased
0.8 percent (increased 5 percent adjusted for currency) with strength in
government and with education returning to growth, when adjusted for currency.
In the growth markets, clients are investing in education as a way to develop
national skill sets. Industrial sector revenue decreased 8.0 percent (5 percent
adjusted for currency) as concerns with the credit markets and margin pressures
continued. Financial Services sector revenue declined 5.8 percent (1 percent
adjusted for currency) and was in line with the company s overall performance
for the fifth consecutive quarter. The U.S. financial services sector revenue
was up 4 percent and improved significantly from the third quarter. Growth was
driven by banking and financial markets reflecting strong performance in
software, System z and POWER products. Partially offsetting the U.S. growth was
weakness in Japan and Europe as the economic climate worsened. Revenue from
small and medium business clients declined 8.6 percent (3 percent adjusted for
currency) although services signings in this customer set increased 10 percent
versus the fourth quarter of 2007.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
  SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN
  REVIEW   

25   

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW   

39   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

38  

Total expense and other income decreased 4.7 percent compared to the
fourth quarter of 2007. The decrease was driven by approximately 8 points due
to the effects of currency, partially offset by 6 points due to the impact of
acquisitions with the remainder attributed to lower operational expenses. The
company continues to focus on structural changes that reduce spending and
improve productivity. Within selling, general and administrative expense,
workforce reduction charges increased approximately $380 million in the fourth
quarter, reflecting workforce actions in Japan and other ongoing skills
rebalancing. Other (income) and expense was $97 million of income, a decrease
of 1.5 percent compared to fourth-quarter 2007. Interest income was down
approximately $120 million reflecting the current interest rate environment.
While the effects of foreign currency transaction losses also negatively
impacted other (income) and expense in the fourth quarter, they were partially
offset by a benefit from the impact of the company s hedging programs, which
was a gain in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to a loss in the prior year.  

The company s effective tax rate in the fourth-quarter 2008 was 23.8
percent compared with 28.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2007. The 4.2 point
decrease in the fourth-quarter 2008 tax rate was primarily attributable to the
net effect of several items in the quarter. In 2008, the fourth-quarter tax
rate was favorably impacted by the net increase in the utilization of foreign
and state tax credits as well as the retroactive reinstatement of the U.S.
research tax credit in the fourth quarter of 2008. These benefits were
partially offset by the net tax cost related to the completion of the U.S.
federal income tax examination for the years 2004 and 2005 including the
associated income tax reserve redeterminations.  

Share repurchases totaled $604 million in the fourth quarter. The
weighted-average number of diluted common shares outstanding in the fourth
quarter of 2008 was 1,347.9 million compared with 1,412.9 million in the fourth
quarter of 2007.  

The company ended the quarter with $12,741 million of cash and cash
equivalents and generated $6,621 million in cash flow provided by operating
activities driven primarily by net income. Net cash from investing activities
was a use of cash of $880 million in fourth quarter of 2008 versus a source of
cash of $1,098 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, resulting primarily from
the disposition of higher levels of short-term marketable securities in 2007.  

Prior Year
in Review   

The
Prior Year in Review section provides a summary of the company s financial
performance in 2007 as compared to 2006. For a detailed discussion of 2007
performance, see the company s 2007 Annual Report.  

* 4.2 percent adjusted for
currency.  

  ** At December 31.  

  NM - Not meaningful  

CONTINUING OPERATIONS   

The company s performance in
2007 reflected the strength of its global model. Revenue increased in all
geographies, with strong growth in emerging markets worldwide. The company
capitalized on the opportunities in the global economies, generating 63 percent
of its revenue outside the United States, in delivering full-year growth of 8.1
percent (4 percent adjusted for currency).   

Gross
profit margins improved reflecting a shift to higher value offerings, continued
benefits from productivity initiatives and the transformation to a globally
integrated enterprise. Pre-tax income from continuing operations grew 8.8
percent and net income from continuing operations increased 10.6 percent versus
2006. Diluted earnings per share improved 18.5 percent, reflecting the strong
growth in net income and the benefits of the common stock repurchase program.
In 2007, the company repurchased approximately $18.8 billion of its common
stock, including a $12.5 billion accelerated share repurchase in the second
quarter.  

39  

The increase in 2007 revenue was primarily due to:  

Strong performance from Global Technology
Services and Global Business Services with growth in all business lines; 

Continued strong demand in the Software business,
driven by Key Branded Middleware products, with strong contributions from
strategic acquisitions; and 

Continued growth in emerging countries
(Brazil, Russia, India and China: up 26 percent) and solid performance in all
geographies, led by Asia Pacific. 

The increase in income from continuing operations before income taxes
in 2007 was primarily due to the revenue growth and gross profit margin
improvements in the Global Services and Systems and Technology segments.  

The following is an analysis
of the 2007 versus 2006 reportable segment results for Global Services, Systems
and Technology and Software. The Global Financing segment analysis is included
in the Global Financing section on pages 53 through 57.  

Global Services   

The Global Services segments, GTS and GBS had combined revenue of
$54,144 million, an increase of 12.1 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2007 when compared to 2006. Global Services signings at actual rates were
$56.3 billion in 2007 as compared to $53.4 billion in 2006. The Global Services
backlog was estimated to be $118 billion at December 31, 2007, versus $116
billion at December 31, 2006. The Global Services segments delivered
combined pre-tax profit of $5,622 million, an increase of 12.6 percent.  

GTS revenue increased 11.7
percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus 2006. The strong
performance reflected the extensive transformation which occurred in this
business over the past few years. This transformation included revamping the
entire ITS portfolio, continued improvement in SO delivery and a disciplined
approach to driving new business in existing accounts. Total signings in GTS
increased 7 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). SO revenue was up 9.7
percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) with growth in all geographies, led
by EMEA and Asia Pacific. Revenue growth benefited from prior-year signings,
sales of new business in existing accounts, lower base contract erosion and
good yield from 2007 signings. ITS revenue increased 13.3 percent (9 percent
adjusted for currency). Revenue growth was driven primarily by increased
signings and reflected the strength of the ITS portfolio worldwide. The
revamped ITS portfolio includes ten Service Product Lines which complement
hardware offerings from Systems and Technology and software offerings from the
Software business. The acquisition of Internet Security Systems (ISS), in the
fourth quarter of 2006, also contributed to the revenue growth. BTO revenue
increased 24.4 percent (20 percent adjusted for currency), with double-digit
growth in all geographies. Maintenance revenue increased 11.4 percent (7
percent adjusted for currency) driven primarily by increased availability
services on non-IBM IT equipment. Services provided to InfoPrint Solutions,
following the divestiture of the printer business in the second quarter of
2007, contributed 4 points of growth.  

GBS revenue increased 13.0
percent (9 percent adjusted for currency) with balanced growth across all three
geographies. Revenue performance was led by double-digit growth in application
management services offerings and growth in all consulting service lines. Total
signings in GBS increased 3 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency), led by
growth in shorter term signings.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW   

39   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

40  

GTS
gross profit increased 12.2 percent with gross profit margin improving 0.1
points, driven primarily by margin expansion in SO, due to an improved cost
structure, and ITS, which benefited from a mix to higher value offerings.
Segment pre-tax profit increased 8.2 percent to $3,557 million with a pre-tax
margin of 9.4 percent, a decline of 0.2 points. Increased investments in sales
and delivery, acquisitions and workforce reduction charges were essentially
offset by productivity improvements and effective expense management.  

GBS gross profit increased 14.8 percent to $4,240 million and the gross
profit margin improved 0.4 points. Segment pre-tax profit increased 21.0
percent to $2,064 million with a pre-tax margin of 10.7 percent, an improvement
of 0.9 points. The margin expansion was driven primarily by revenue growth,
ongoing productivity and utilization initiatives and expense management.  

Software   

* Reclassified to conform
with 2007 presentation.  

Software
segment revenue of $19,982 million increased 10.0 percent (6 percent adjusted
for currency) in 2007 reflecting strong demand for the Key Branded Middleware
products. Revenue performance was led by double-digit growth in the Financial
Services, Public and Small and Medium Business sectors.  

Key Branded Middleware revenue was $10,827 million, up 15.5 percent (11
percent adjusted for currency) and increased 3 points to 54 percent of total
software segment revenue.  

WebSphere Family revenue increased 19.1 percent (14 percent adjusted
for currency) and was led by double-digit growth in WebSphere Application
Servers and WebSphere Business Integration software. The strong revenue
performance reflected the industry s adoption of SOA. Information Management
revenue increased 14.7 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007
versus the prior year. The acquisition of FileNet, in the fourth quarter of
2006, contributed strong revenue growth throughout the year. Lotus revenue
increased 8.7 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 driven by the
Notes/Domino family of products. Lotus Connections, released in the second
quarter of 2007, was rapidly adopted by customers. The latest version of Lotus
Notes, Lotus Notes 8.0, was delivered in the third quarter of 2007. Revenue
from Tivoli software increased 18.0 percent (13 percent adjusted for currency)
with double-digit growth in each segment of the portfolio: Systems Management,
Security and Storage. The acquisitions of MRO, in the fourth quarter of 2006,
and Vallent and Consul, in the first quarter of 2007, also contributed to the
brand s revenue growth. Rational revenue increased 13.7 percent (9 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2007 which reflected strong customer acceptance of
its integrated product set.  

Revenue from Other middleware
products increased 3.5 percent (flat adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus the
prior year. This software product set includes mature products which provide a
more stable flow of revenue.  

Operating systems revenue
increased 2.0 percent (decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007
versus 2006. Product Lifecycle Management (PLM) revenue decreased 6.4 percent
(11 percent adjusted for currency) driven by declines in the Small and Medium
Business sector. Other software segment revenue increased 26.7 percent (22
percent adjusted for currency) reflecting growth in software-related services,
such as consulting and education.  

Software segment gross profit increased 10.0 percent to $17,015 million
in 2007, driven primarily by strong revenue growth. Gross profit margin was
85.2 percent in 2007, flat versus the prior year.  

The Software segment contributed $6,002 million of pre-tax profit in
2007, an increase of 9.3 percent versus 2006. The segment pre-tax profit margin
of 26.8 percent was essentially flat (declined 0.1 points) versus the prior
year, reflecting the integration of acquired businesses.  

Systems and Technology   

41  

Systems
and Technology segment revenue decreased 3.0 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency). On June 1, 2007, the company completed the divestiture of its
printing business to Ricoh. This resulted in the loss of approximately $600
million of Systems and Technology revenue in 2007 when compared to 2006.
Systems and Technology revenue, excluding the printing business, was flat
(declined 3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus 2006. System z
revenue decreased 11.2 percent (15 percent adjusted for currency). System z
MIPS shipments increased 3 percent. System z revenue declined in the second
half of 2007 following a long and successful technology cycle of over
two-and-a-half years. Converged System p revenue increased 8.8 percent (5
percent adjusted for currency). The increase was primarily driven by strength
in mid-range POWER5+ and POWER6 servers, which increased 23 percent. Legacy
System i revenue decreased 10.6 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency).
Although legacy System i revenue declined year over year, fourth-quarter 2007
revenue increased 2 percent with growth in POWER6 servers which were introduced
late in the third quarter of 2007. System x revenue increased 7.0 percent (3
percent adjusted for currency). Revenue performance was driven by System x
server products which grew 8 percent and System x blades which increased 16
percent in 2007 versus 2006. System Storage revenue increased 5.1 percent (2
percent adjusted for currency). The increase was primarily driven by 13 percent
growth in tape products, while external disk products increased 1 percent.
Enterprise tape products had strong double-digit revenue growth, while Midrange
tape products had mid single-digit revenue growth. Retail Store Solutions
revenue increased 14.5 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) primarily due
to the continued roll out of new programmable point-of-sale solutions to large
retail clients.  

Microelectronics OEM revenue decreased 11.8 percent driven by reduced
demand for game processors. Printing Systems revenue decreased as a result of
the divestiture of the business. The 2007 results included five months of
revenue while the 2006 results included 12 months of revenue.  

The
increase in Systems and Technology gross profit dollars was primarily due to
higher gross profit margins in System z, converged System p and System x
servers. The Systems and Technology gross profit margin increased 2.0 points to
39.7 percent. Converged System p performance contributed 1.3 points to the
overall margin improvement, while System z and System x contributed 0.7 points
and 0.4 points, respectively. These increases were partially offset by lower
gross margins in legacy System i of 0.2 points and System Storage of 0.2
points.  

Systems and Technology segment pre-tax margin expanded 2.1 points to
9.6 percent driven primarily by a strong combination of operational cost
management and the value that virtualization has driven in the enterprise
space.  

Global
Financing   

See
pages 53 and 54 for a discussion of the Global Financing segment.  

Geographic Revenue   

From
a geographic perspective, revenue increased in all geographies in 2007 when
compared to 2006. Adjusted for currency, revenue growth was led by Asia Pacific
and steady performance throughout the year in EMEA.  

Americas  revenue increased 4.1 percent (3 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2007. Revenue increased in all regions with the U.S. up 2.9
percent, Canada 8.4 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) and Latin America
8.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  

EMEA revenue increased 13.8 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency)
in 2007 when compared to 2006. Within the European market, IT spending grew at
a moderate rate, and the company s mid single-digit revenue growth rates
throughout 2007 reflected that environment. Revenue increased in all major
countries with Spain up 21.7 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency),
Germany 14.6 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency), the U.K. 11.3 percent
(3 percent adjusted for currency), France 10.2 percent (1 percent adjusted for
currency) and Italy 8.7 percent (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency).  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW   

39   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

42  

Asia Pacific revenue
increased 11.0 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) year over year. Growth
was led by strong performance in the India, Greater China, Australia/New
Zealand, ASEAN and Korea regions, where the economies remain strong, with
combined revenue growth of 23.8 percent (17 percent adjusted for currency).
Japan revenue, which represented 49 percent of the Asia Pacific revenue base,
was flat (increased 1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 when compared to
2006, reflecting a slower economy.  

Across the geographies, the
emerging BRIC countries of Brazil, Russia, India, and China together grew 26.3
percent (18 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting the investments made to
build capabilities and capture opportunities in these countries. Brazil revenue
increased 14.3 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency), Russia grew 30.3
percent (30 percent adjusted for currency), India increased 37.9 percent (26
percent adjusted for currency) and China increased 32.5 percent (29 percent
adjusted for currency). In addition to the BRIC markets, the company also had
strong revenue growth in other nations where there was strong demand for business
and IT infrastructure solutions.  

Revenue growth rates, as
reported, were impacted in 2007 as a result of the divestiture of the printing
business on June 1, 2007. Revenue, excluding the printing business in both
years, increased as follows compared to 2006:  

Americas 5.2% 

EMEA 14.5% 

Asia
Pacific 11.8% 

IBM
Consolidated 8.9% 

OEM revenue decreased 10.1 percent
(10 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 when compared to 2006, driven by a
slowdown in demand for game processors.  

Total
Expense and Other Income   

Total expense and other income
increased 9.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2007 versus 2006.
The increase was primarily due to increased SG A expense and interest
expense. SG A expense increased primarily due to acquisition-related
spending, as well as increased investments in emerging countries and the
software and services businesses. Interest expense increased primarily due to
higher debt levels associated with the financing of the ASR agreements. The
expense-to-revenue ratio increased 0.3 points to 27.6 percent in 2007, as
revenue increased 8.1 percent and expense increased 9.1 percent in 2007 versus
2006.  

Total SG A expense of
$22,060 million increased 8.9 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) versus
2006. The increase was primarily driven by acquisition related spending (3
points), the effects of currency (3 points) and investments in the software and
services businesses, as well as emerging markets. In addition, bad debt expense
increased $113 million primarily due to an increase in the provision for
doubtful accounts. The reserve coverage for receivables of 1.5 percent was
essentially flat versus year-end 2006. Ongoing workforce reductions increased
as a result of actions taken to address cost issues in GTS, primarily in SO,
during the second quarter of 2007.  

Other (income) and expense
was income of $626 million and $766 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The
decrease in income was primarily due to higher losses on derivative
instruments. The company hedges its major cross-border cash flows to mitigate
the effect of currency volatility in the year-over-year results. The impact of
these hedging programs is primarily reflected in other (income) and expense, as
well as cost of goods sold. Losses from derivatives, as a result of currency
movements, resulted in $247 million of year-to-year impact to other (income)
and expense. This decrease in income was partially offset by a gain from the
divestiture of the printing business in the second quarter and sales of Lenovo
stock in the first and second quarters of 2007.  

RD E expense of $6,153
million increased 0.8 percent primarily driven by acquisitions and investments
to maintain technology leadership across the product offerings. Software
spending increased $339 million partially offset by lower Systems and
Technology spending of $204 million.  

Intellectual property and
custom development income of $958 million increased $58 million or 6.4 percent
versus 2006. There were no significant IP transactions in 2007 and 2006.  

Interest expense of $611
million increased $333 million, or 119.6 percent in 2007 primarily due to the
higher debt associated with the financing of the ASR agreements.  

Income
Taxes   

The provision for income taxes
resulted in an effective tax rate of 28.1 percent for 2007, compared with the
2006 effective tax rate of 29.3 percent. The 1.2 point decrease was primarily
driven by the absence of the one-time tax cost associated with the intercompany
transfer of certain intellectual property in the fourth quarter of 2006 (4.3
points) and the absence of the benefit from the settlement of the U.S. federal
income tax audit for the years 2001 through 2003, also in the fourth quarter of
2006 (3.0 points). The company also benefited in 2007 from a more favorable mix
of income in lower tax rate jurisdictions and increased capital loss and state
credit benefits, offset by a reduction in certain tax incentives.  

Financial
Position   

Assets
of $120,431 million increased $17,197 million ($12,957 million  adjusted for currency) primarily due
to increases in cash and cash equivalents
($6,969 million), prepaid pension assets ($6,788 million), total financing receivables
($2,729 million) and goodwill ($1,431
million). These increases were partially offset by decreases in long-term deferred tax assets
($2,367 million) and short-term marketable securities ($1,479 million). 

Liabilities of $91,962
million increased $17,234 million ($13,642 million adjusted for currency)
driven primarily by increases in total debt ($12,592 million), tax liabilities
($1,492 million) and total deferred income ($1,773 million).  

43  

Stockholders  equity of $28,470 million was essentially flat versus
2006. Increased treasury stock ($17,649 million) from share repurchases, which
included the ASR, was largely offset by increased retained earnings ($8,208
million) driven by net income, increased common stock ($3,917 million) related
to stock options and a decline in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings ($5,487 million) primarily due to the effects of pension
remeasurements.  

The company generated $16,094 million in cash flow provided by
operating activities, an increase of $1,075 million compared to 2006, primarily
driven by increased net income. Net cash used in investing activities of $4,675
million was $6,874 million lower than 2006 driven primarily by proceeds from
disposition of short-term marketable securities and a reduction in cash used
for acquisitions. Net cash used in financing activities of $4,740 million
decreased $3,464 million versus 2006 driven by increased net proceeds from
total debt ($12,233 million), partially offset by increased share repurchases
($10,744 million).  

Discontinued
Operations   

On
December 31, 2002, the company sold its HDD business to Hitachi for
approximately $2 billion. The final cash payment of $399 million was received
on December 30, 2005.  

In 2006, the company reported net income of $76 million, net of tax,
primarily related to tax benefits from tax audit settlements.  

Other
Information   

LOOKING FORWARD   

Looking
forward, the company enters 2009 in an excellent operational and financial
position. The company has shifted its business to higher value services and
software, with less dependence on commoditizing and cyclical businesses. The
Global Services business in 2008 contributed 42 percent of total segment
pre-tax income and managed over 60 percent of the company s resources. The
company s software capabilities have grown through internal investment and
acquisitions with Software segment pre-tax profit more than doubling in the
past five years to over $7 billion in 2008. In 2008, over 80 percent of segment
pre-tax profit came from services and software, and over 90 percent from
services, software and financing. The company has changed the profile of the
business to make it more adaptable to different business environments.  

The company enters 2009 and the current market from a position of
strength. The company will take advantage of the environment to continue to
execute its strategies.  

The company has a significant global presence, operating in over 170
countries, with approximately 65 percent of its revenue generated outside the
U.S. This global reach gives the company access to markets, with well-established
organizations and management systems who understand the clients and their
challenges and who can respond to these opportunities with value-add solutions.
The company s transformation to a globally integrated enterprise provides the
capabilities to service clients globally and deliver the best skills and cost
from anywhere in the world.  

In emerging markets, the company will continue to invest for revenue
growth by capturing new infrastructure spending in these markets. While some of
these economies have slowed, these markets still offer good growth
opportunities relative to the rest of the world.  

The company has developed a strong value proposition for the
established markets based on cost reduction, capital conservation and risk
management. The high value, integrated offerings, including green data centers,
outsourcing and virtualization on high-end systems, have performed well in
these markets in the current environment.  

Looking forward, the company s  Smarter Planet  agenda will provide an
important new opportunity to deliver value to clients. The company anticipates
a significant opportunity in  smart infrastructure  projects as governments
around the world implement economic stimulus programs focused on next
generation smart grids, healthcare-related information technology and
broadband. Projects of these types require technology integration and industry
insight which should uniquely position the company to participate in these
opportunities.  

The company remains committed to technology leadership and will
continue to focus internal investments, complemented with strategic
acquisitions, on high-value, high-growth opportunities. The company invested
over $6 billion in RD E in 2008 and approximately $30 billion over the past
five years.  

In addition, the company s financial position is strong. Through its
efficient cash generation business model based on disciplined balance sheet
management, in 2008, the company generated $18.8 billion in operating cash flow
and ended the year with $12.9 billion in cash and marketable securities. This
provides the company with the financial flexibility for investments in changing
business environments. The company will also continue to focus on cost and
expense reduction and improved efficiency. In 2008, those efforts translated to
margin expansion and the company expects this to continue into 2009.  

In May 2007, the company met with investors and analysts and
discussed a road map to deliver earnings per share in 2010 in the range of $10
to $11 per share, or 14 to 16 percent compound growth rate from 2006. The
company s 2010 road map is to generate earn ings
per share in the range of $9 to $10 per share, or 10 to 14 percent  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW   

39   

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS   

44   

OTHER INFORMATION   

44   

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

44  

growth from 2006 through a
combination of revenue growth, margin improvement, growth initiatives,
acquisitions and effective capital deployment to fund growth and provide
returns to shareholders through dividends and common stock repurchases.  

In addition to these
elements, the company s roadmap to the $10 to $11 per share range includes the
projected benefit of retirement-related costs based on December 31, 2006
assumptions. Actual retirement-related costs will depend on several factors
including financial market performance, the interest rate environment and
actuarial assumptions. In March 2008, the company met again with investors
and analysts and discussed the progress the company is making on its 2010
roadmap.  

The company s performance in
2008 highlighted the benefits of its global reach and the strength of its
business model. The financial results reflected solid progress on major
elements of the long-term goals, however, the company measures the success of
its business model over the long term, not any individual quarter or year.
Earnings per share growth is dependent on a number of factors and may not be
consistent throughout the periods. The company s strategies, investments and
actions are all taken with an objective of optimizing long-term performance.  

The continued investments in
Software have led to this segment s emergence as a strong source of revenue
growth and the largest contributor to the company s profit in 2008 and 2007.
The Software business is differentiated in the industry by both the strength of
its individual products and the breadth of the software offerings. Clients
continue to rely on the extensive middleware portfolio to help them transform
their business, streamline costs and seek new business opportunities. The key
to continued Software growth stems from the ability to maintain and grow this
industry-leading software business, and by continuing to capitalize on industry
trends. Investments will be aligned to advance the company s growth strategy
through new client acquisition, with specific focus on key industries and local
businesses. The company will also continue to focus on expanding its software
capabilities through a combination of internal development and strategic
acquisitions.  

Within the Global Services
business, revenue and profit growth improved and the company saw significant
results from the targeted actions and investments it has made in the last few
years. The business has been transformed into one that is more flexible and
more focused on higher value segments of the market. The Global Services
business enters 2009 with a revenue backlog of $117 billion. The portfolio is
strong with a complement of offerings and capabilities that deliver both high
value and productivity to clients. Going forward the Global Services business
will look to build upon its momentum from the strong 2008 performance by
continuing its  clients first approach  and by focusing on further enhancements
to its offerings/integrated solutions portfolio, continuing to improve both the
skills and structure of the business and accelerating the deployment of the
Global Delivery Framework, a set of delivery practices that will enable
consistent global delivery excellence.  

In the Systems and
Technology business, the company will continue to focus its investments on
differentiating technologies with leadership and high-growth potential
including POWER, high-performance computing, virtualization, nanotechnology and
energy efficiency. In this market, the value has shifted to the high end to
address clients  needs to consolidate and virtualize their environments. The
company will focus on providing clients with a clear path to a fully dynamic
infrastructure that not only reduces cost, but is both intelligent and secure.  

In 2009, Global Financing
will seek to expand its core business by accelerating growth in the
participation rates for IBM products and services transactions. In addition,
the business will be focused on optimizing its global infrastructure, resources
and processes through the deployment of its single operating model initiative.  

The company expects 2009
pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $1.5 billion, an
increase of approximately $100 million compared to 2008. This estimate reflects
current pension plan assumptions and the impacts of recent pension plan
redesign efforts. See note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 106
to 116 for additional information.  

The company expects in the
normal course of business that its effective tax rate in 2009 will be
approximately 26.5 percent. The rate will change year to year based on
non-recurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits, as well as
recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the
timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and
the effects of various global income tax strategies.  

LIQUIDITY
AND CAPITAL RESOURCES   

The company has consistently
generated strong cash flow from operations, providing a source of funds ranging
between $14.9 billion and $18.8 billion per year over the past five years. The
company provides for additional liquidity through several sources: maintaining
a sizable cash balance, access to global funding sources, a committed global
credit facility and other committed and uncommitted lines of credit worldwide.
At December 31, 2008, the company had total unused lines of credit of
$18,264 million. The following table provides a summary of these major sources
of liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2004 through 2008.  

Cash Flow
and Liquidity Trends   

45  

The
major rating agencies  ratings on the company s debt securities at
December 31, 2008 appear in the following table. All ratings remain
unchanged from December 31, 2007. The company has no contractual
arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a
material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity. The company
believes its earnings and cash flow growth provide sufficient flexibility
within the existing credit ratings to continue to execute its current
investment, dividend and acquisition strategies, as well as refinance maturing
debt when required.  

Moody s   

Standard   

Investors   

Poor s   

Service   

Fitch   

Senior long-term
  debt  

A+  

A1  

A+  

Commercial paper  

A-1  

Prime-1  

F1  

The
company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 95,  Statement of
Cash Flows,  on page 62 and highlights causes and events underlying
sources and uses of cash in that format on pages 34 and 35. For purposes
of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows
in a different format.  

As discussed on page 53, a key objective of the company s Global
Financing business is to generate strong return on equity. Increasing
receivables is the basis for growth in a financing business. Accordingly,
management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating
investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency.
After classifying Global Financing accounts receivables as an investment, the
remaining net operational cash flow less capital expenditures is viewed by the
company as the free cash flow available for investment and distribution to
shareholders.  

From the perspective of how management views cash flow, in 2008, free
cash flow was $14.3 billion, an increase of $1.9 billion compared to 2007. This
cash performance was driven primarily by the growth in net income from
continuing operations, controls on capital spending and lower
retirement-related funding year over year.  

Over the past five years, the company generated over $55 billion in
free cash flow available for investment and distribution to shareholders.
During that period, the company invested $14.3 billion in strategic
acquisitions and returned over $61 billion to shareholders through dividends
and share repurchases. The amount of prospective returns to shareholders in the
form of dividends and share repurchases will vary based upon several factors
including each year s operating results, capital expenditure requirements,
research and development and acquisitions, as well as the factors discussed on
page 47.  

The company s Board of Directors meets quarterly to consider the
dividend payment. The company expects to fund dividend payments through cash
from operations. In the second quarter of 2008, the Board of Directors
increased the company s quarterly common stock dividend from $0.40 to $0.50 per
share.  

The
table below represents the way in which management reviews cash flow as
described above.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION   

44   

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

46  

Events that could temporarily
change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed on page 46 include
significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic
sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation or future pension
funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets.
Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of
variables, which are more completely described on pages 97 to 99. With
respect to pension funding, in 2008, the company contributed $917 million to
its non-U.S. defined benefit plans, versus $503 million in 2007. Also, in 2007,
the company made a $500 million voluntary cash contribution to the U.S.
nonpension postretirement plan. As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations
table below, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan
contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $5.6 billion in the
next five years. The 2009 contributions are expected to be approximately $1
billion. Financial market performance in 2009 could increase the legally
mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more
frequent remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any
further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict
future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations.  

The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act) was enacted into law in
2006, and, among other things, increases the funding requirements for certain
U.S. defined benefit plans beginning after December 31, 2007. No mandatory
contribution is required for the U.S. defined benefit plan in 2009 or 2010 as
of December 31, 2008.  

Contractual
Obligations   

*                     Represents future pension contributions that
are mandated by local regulations or statute, all associated with non-U.S.
pension plans. The projected payments beyond 2013 are not currently
determinable. See note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 106 to
116 for additional information on the non-U.S. plans  investment strategies and
expected contributions and for information regarding the company s unfunded
pension plans of $20,086 million at December 31, 2008.  

**              These amounts represent the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits under FIN 48. The company estimates that
approximately $163 million of the liability is expected to be settled within
the next 12 months. The settlement period for the noncurrent portion of the income
tax liability cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing of the payments will
depend on the progress of tax examinations with the various tax authorities;
however, it is not expected to be due within the next 12 months.  

47  

Total
contractual obligations are reported in the table on page 47 excluding the
effects of time value and therefore, may not equal the amounts reported in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Total contractual obligations
increased $23.8 billion from the amount reported in the 2007 Annual Report
primarily due to the addition of interest on long-term debt obligations ($16.4
billion), which was not previously reported, and an increase in long-term debt
obligations ($4.2 billion), including current (2009) maturities.  

Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or
services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any of the following
criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the company would incur a
penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) the company must make
specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the contracted
products or services (take-or-pay). If the obligation to purchase goods or
services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract is included in the
table above. If the obligation is cancelable, but the company would incur a
penalty if canceled, the dollar amount of the penalty is included as a purchase
obligation. Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are
also included in the table as they represent the portion of each contract that
is a firm commitment.  

In the ordinary course of business, the company enters into contracts
that specify that the company will purchase all or a portion of its
requirements of a specific product, commodity or service from a supplier or
vendor. These contracts are generally entered into in order to secure pricing
or other negotiated terms. They do not specify fixed or minimum quantities to
be purchased and, therefore, the company does not consider them to be purchase
obligations.  

Off-Balance
Sheet Arrangements   

In
the ordinary course of business, the company enters into off-balance sheet
arrangements as defined by the SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67),  Disclosure
in Management s Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements
and Aggregate Contractual Obligations.   

The company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are
reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial
condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of
operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table
on page 47 for the company s contractual obligations and note O,  Contingencies
and Commitments,  on pages 97 to 99, for detailed information about the
company s guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements.
The company does not have retained interests in assets transferred to
unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance sheet interests or
instruments.  

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES   

The
application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions
about future events that directly affect its reported financial condition and
operating performance. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in
this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to
its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both
(a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels
of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a
reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the
company s financial condition or operating performance. Senior management has
discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the
Audit Committee of the company s Board of Directors. The company s significant
accounting policies are described in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies, 
on pages 66 to 76.  

A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information
is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material
information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1
percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the Annual Report to
understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and
do not represent management s predictions of variability. For all of these
estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as
forecast, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.  

Pension
Assumptions   

For
defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of the company s benefit
obligation and net periodic pension cost/(income) requires the use of certain
assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected
return on plan assets. See note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 106
to 116 for a description of the company s defined benefit pension plans.  

Changes in the discount rate assumptions will impact the service cost,
(gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic
pension cost/(income) calculation (see page 112 for information regarding
the discount rate assumptions) and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). As
presented on page 112, the company decreased the discount rate assumption
for the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S.-based defined benefit plan, by
25 basis points to 5.75 percent on December 31, 2008. This change will increase
pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2009 by approximately $71 million. If
the discount rate assumption for the PPP increased by 25 basis points on December 31,
2008, pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2009 would have decreased by
approximately $67 million. Changes in the discount rate assumptions will impact
the PBO which, in turn, may impact the company s funding decisions if the PBO
exceeds plan assets. Each 25 basis point increase or decrease   in the discount
rate   

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION   

44   

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

48  

will
cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPP s PBO of an
estimated $1.2 billion based upon December 31, 2008 data. Page 110
presents the PPP s PBO and plan assets as of December 31, 2008.  

The expected long-term return on plan assets is used in calculating the
net periodic pension (income)/cost. The differences between the actual return
on plan assets and expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over
five years in the expected return on plan assets line within net periodic
pension cost/(income) and also as a component of gains/losses in accumulated
gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings, which is recognized over
the service lives of the employees in the plan, provided such amounts exceed
certain thresholds which are based upon the obligation or the value of plan
assets, as provided by accounting standards.  

To the extent the outlook for long-term returns changes such that
management changes its expected long-term return on plan assets assumption,
each 50 basis point increase or decrease in the expected long-term return on
PPP plan assets assumption will have an estimated decrease or increase,
respectively, of $251 million on the following year s pre-tax net periodic
pension cost/(income) (based upon the PPP s plan assets at December 31,
2008 and assuming no contributions are made in 2009). As presented on page 112,
the company did not change its expected long-term return on plan assets
assumption on December 31, 2008.  

The company may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law,
to make contributions to its pension plans. Actual return on pension plan
assets that differ from the expected long-term return on plan asset
assumptions, may result in more or less future contributions than is planned by
management.  

Impacts of these types of changes on the company s defined benefit pension
plans in other countries worldwide will vary depending upon the status of each
respective plan.  

Revenue
Recognition   

Application
of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and
recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates.
Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may
require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate
accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element
arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other
significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting
as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered
part of one arrangement.  

Revenue recognition is also impacted by the company s ability to
estimate sales incentives, expected returns and allowances for uncollectible
receivables. The company considers various factors, including a review of
specific transactions, the credit-worthiness of the customers, historical
experience and market and economic conditions when calculating these provisions
and allowances. Estimates are evaluated each quarter to assess the adequacy of
the estimates. If these estimates were changed by 10 percent in 2008, net
income would be impacted by $90 million (excluding Global Financing receivables
reserves discussed on pages 50 and 51).  

Costs to
Complete Service Contracts   

The company enters into numerous service contracts through its GTS and
GBS businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be
impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract,
especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion
(POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC
contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of
the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing
profitability analyses of its services contracts in order to determine whether
the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to
estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs,
future product costs and productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions
recorded as a component of other accrued expenses and liabilities are
approximately $24 million and $41 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31,
2007, respectively.  

Income Taxes   

The company is subject to
income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant
judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income
taxes.  

During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and
calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a
result, the company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether
additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized
when, despite the company s belief that its tax return positions are
supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully
sustained upon review by tax authorities. The company believes that its
accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its
assessment of many factors including past experience and interpretations of tax
law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions and may involve a
series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that the final
tax outcome of these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such
differences will impact income tax expense in the period in which such
determination is made.  

Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation
allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a
valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each
jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future  

49  

taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies.
In the event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of
deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation
allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in
which such determination is made.  

To the extent that the provision
for income taxes increases/decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing
operations before income taxes, consolidated income from continuing operations
would have decreased/improved by $167 million in 2008.  

Valuation of
Assets and Reporting Units   

The application of business combination and impairment accounting
requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The purchase method
of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the
fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed to properly allocate
purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized
from goodwill. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill, requires the
allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an
estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The company s
estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are
inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of
management s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and
circumstances that may occur.  

Valuation of
Goodwill   

The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be
recoverable in accordance with SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets.  The provisions of SFAS No. 142 require that the
company perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, the company
compares the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The
company determines the fair value of its reporting units based on the income
approach. Under the income approach, the company calculates the fair value of a
reporting unit based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If
the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net
assets assigned to that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value
of the net assets assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the
reporting unit, then the second step of the impairment test is performed in
order to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. If
the carrying value of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair
value, then the company records an impairment loss equal to the difference.  

Determining the fair value of
a reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue
growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash
flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The company s
estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are
inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of
management s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and
circumstances that may occur.  

The company s annual goodwill impairment analysis, which the company
performed during the fourth quarter of 2008, did not result in an impairment
charge. The excess of fair value over carrying value for each of the company s
reporting units as of September 30, 2008, the annual testing date, ranged
from approximately $2.0 billion to approximately $36.0 billion. In order to
evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on the goodwill
impairment test, the company applied a hypothetical 10 percent decrease to the
fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10 percent decrease would
result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging from approximately $1.8
billion to approximately $31.3 billion for each of the company s reporting
units.  

Loss
Contingencies   

The
company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings.
Quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and
assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim
or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably
estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant
judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the
determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of
uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information
available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the company
reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation
and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential
liabilities could have a material impact on the company s results of operations
and financial position.  

Financing
Receivables Reserves   

The
Global Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio at least
quarterly in order to assess collectibility. A description of the methods used
by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included
on page 75. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are
materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the
economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular
industry segment that represents a concentration in Global Financing s
receivables portfolio.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION   

44   

GLOBAL FINANCING  

53  

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

50  

To the extent that actual collectibility differs from management s
estimates currently provided for by 10 percent, Global Financing s segment
pre-tax income and the company s consolidated income from continuing operations
before income taxes would be higher or lower by an estimated $53 million (using
2008 data), depending upon whether the actual collectibility was better or
worse, respectively, than the estimates.  

Residual
Value   

Residual
value represents the estimated fair value of equipment under lease as of the
end of the lease. Residual value estimates impact the determination of whether
a lease is classified as operating or capital. Global Financing estimates the
future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the
current market for new and used equipment and obtaining forward-looking product
information such as marketing plans and technological innovations. Residual
value estimates are periodically reviewed and  other than temporary  declines
in estimated future residual values are recognized upon identification.
Anticipated increases in future residual values are not recognized until the
equipment is remarketed. Factors that could cause actual results to materially
differ from the estimates include significant changes in the used-equipment
market brought on by unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any
resulting changes in the useful lives of used equipment.  

To the extent that actual residual value recovery is lower than
management s estimates by 10 percent, Global Financing s segment pre-tax income
and the company s consolidated income from continuing operations before income
taxes would be lower by an estimated $65 million (using 2008 data). If the
actual residual value recovery is higher than management s estimates, the
increase in after-tax income will be realized at the end of lease when the
equipment is remarketed.  

CURRENCY RATE FLUCTUATIONS   

Changes
in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the
company s results. At December 31, 2008, currency changes resulted in
assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into
fewer U.S. dollars than at year-end 2007. The company uses a variety of
financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to
financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions. Further
discussion of currency and hedging appears in note L,  Derivatives and Hedging
Transactions,  on pages 90 to 94.  

In 2008, the company s revenue increased 4.9 percent as reported and 2.3
percent adjusted for currency. In the first nine months of 2008, revenue
increased 9.6 percent as reported and 3.7 percent adjusted for currency. This
currency benefit reversed in the fourth      quarter, as revenue declined
6.4 percent as reported and 1.0 percent      adjusted for currency, driven
from the company s operations in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The
company maintains currency      hedging programs for cash
planning purposes which mitigate, but do      not eliminate, the volatility
of currency impacts on the company s      financial results. In
addition to the translation of earnings, the impact      of currency changes also may
affect the company s pricing and sourcing actions. For example, the company may
procure components and      supplies in multiple functional currencies and
sell products and services      in other currencies. Since
the company operates in a very competitive      environment, it believes that
some of this currency-based cost      advantage is passed on to the
client in reduced price. Therefore, it is      impractical to precisely
quantify the impact of currency on these      transactions and on
consolidated net income. However, the company      estimates that the maximum
effect of currency, before taking pricing      or sourcing actions into
account, and net of hedging activity, contributed approximately no more than 21
percent of the growth in total      earnings per share in 2008.
This hypothetical upper limit assumes      that no currency benefit was
passed through to clients in pricing      actions or mitigated through
sourcing actions.  

For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars      or whose
economic environment is highly inflationary, translation      adjustments are
reflected in results of operations, as required by      SFAS No. 52,  Foreign
Currency Translation.  Generally, the company manages currency risk in these
entities by linking prices and      contracts to U.S. dollars
and, as needed, by entering into foreign      currency hedge contracts.  

MARKET RISK   

In the normal course of
business, the financial position of the company      is routinely subject to a
variety of risks. In addition to the market risk      associated with interest rate
and currency movements on outstanding      debt and non-U.S. dollar
denominated assets and liabilities, other      examples of risk include
collectibility of accounts receivable and      recoverability of residual
values on leased assets.  

The
company regularly assesses these risks and has established      policies and
business practices to protect against the adverse effects      of these and
other potential exposures. As a result, the company does      not anticipate
any material losses from these risks.  

The
company s debt, in support of the Global Financing business      and the
geographic breadth of the company s operations, contains an      element of
market risk from changes in interest and currency rates.      The company
manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety      of financial
instruments including derivatives, as explained in note L,       Derivatives and
Hedging Transactions,  on pages 90 to 94.  

To
meet disclosure requirements, the company performs a      sensitivity analysis to
determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of
the company s debt and other      financial instruments.  

51  

The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis
comprise all of the company s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities,
short-term and long-term loans, commercial financing and installment payment
receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and all derivative
financial instruments. The company s portfolio of derivative financial
instruments generally includes interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and
forward contracts.  

To perform the sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of
loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates
and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market
values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on
the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that
are attributable to the market risk being measured. The discount rates used for
the present value computations were selected based on market interest and
foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses
associated with each type of risk.  

Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily
represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under
normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables
other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the
results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are
specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments
relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition.
Excluded items include short-term and long-term receivables from sales-type and
direct financing leases, forecasted foreign currency cash flows and the company s
net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the
values of some of the financial instruments impacting the results of the
sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values
of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.  

The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2008, and December 31,
2007, are as follows:  

Interest
Rate Risk   

At
December 31, 2008, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates
with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair
market value of the company s financial instruments of $353 million as compared
with a decrease of $155 million at December 31, 2007. A 10 percent
increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant
would result in an increase in the fair value of the company s financial
instruments of $327 million as compared to an increase of $137 million at December 31,
2007. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company s
financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of
interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the company s debt
maturities, interest rate profile and amount.  

Foreign
Currency Exchange Rate Risk   

At
December 31, 2008, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies,
with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair
value of the company s financial instruments of $1,007 million as compared with
a decrease of $1,000 million at December 31, 2007. Conversely, a 10
percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other
variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the
company s financial instruments of $1,007 million compared with an increase of
$1,000 million at December 31, 2007.  

FINANCING RISKS   

See
the  Global Financing-Description of Business  on page 53 for a discussion
of the financing risks associated with the Global Financing business and
management s actions to mitigate such risks.  

EMPLOYEES AND RELATED WORKFORCE   

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION   

44   

GLOBAL FINANCING   

53   

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

52  

As a globally integrated
enterprise, the company operates in over 170 countries and is continuing to
refocus its business on the higher value segments of enterprise computing. The
company also continues to rebalance its workforce globally to improve its global
reach and competitiveness and to reflect the changing geographic mix of its
business.  

In 2008, total employees at
IBM and its wholly owned subsidiaries increased 11,897 compared with 2007. The
U.S. remained the largest country, with 115,000 employees, while resources
increased in Asia Pacific and Latin America and were essentially flat in
Europe.  

The company continues to add
resources aggressively in emerging markets, particularly in the BRIC countries  
Brazil, Russia, India and China   where employment totals approximately
113,000.  

The complementary workforce
is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary,
part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business
needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.  

Global
Financing   

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   

Global Financing is a reportable
segment that is measured as if it were a standalone entity. Accordingly, the
information presented in this section is consistent with this separate company
view.  

The mission of Global
Financing is to facilitate clients  acquisition of IBM hardware, software and
services.  

Global Financing invests in
financing assets, leverages with debt and manages the associated risks with the
objective of generating consistently strong returns on equity. The primary
focus on the company s products and clients mitigates many of the risks
normally associated with a financing company. Global Financing has the benefit
of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products
that are being financed. This combination allows Global Financing to
effectively manage two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are
normally associated with financing.  

Global Financing is comprised of
three lines of business:  

Client financing provides lease and loan financing to end
users and internal clients for terms generally between two and seven years.
Internal financing is predominantly in support of Global Services  long-term
client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of
the company s accounts receivable, primarily for cash management purposes. All
internal financing arrangements are at arm s-length rates and are based upon
market conditions.  

Commercial
financing provides primarily short-term inventory and accounts receivable
financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products.  

Remarketing
sells and leases used equipment to new or existing clients both externally and
internally. This equipment is primarily sourced from the conclusion of lease
transactions. Externally-remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or
leases to clients and resellers. Internally-remarketed equipment revenue
primarily represents used equipment that is sold or leased internally to the
Systems and Technology and Global Services segments. The Systems and Technology
segment may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to
external clients.  

In addition to the overall
health of the economy and its impact on corporate IT budgets, key drivers of
Global Financing s results are interest rates and originations. Interest rates
directly impact Global Financing s business by increasing or decreasing both
financing revenue and the associated borrowing costs. Originations, which
determine the asset base of Global Financing s annuity-like business, are
impacted by IBM s non-Global Financing sales volumes and Global Financing s
participation rates. Participation rates are the propensity of IBM s clients to
finance their purchases through Global Financing in lieu of paying IBM up-front
cash or financing through a third party.  

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS   

*  

See page 57 for the
  details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation.  

53  

The
increase in 2008 revenue, as compared to 2007, was primarily due to:  

An increase in external
revenue of 2.3 percent (flat adjusted for currency), due to growth in financing
revenue (up 7.9 percent to $1,939 million), partially offset by a decrease in
used equipment sales (down 12.0 percent to $620 million); and  

Growth in internal revenue of
27.7 percent primarily driven by an increase in used equipment sales to the
Systems and Technology segment (up 47.2 percent to $1,148 million) and an
increase in internal financing (up 6.0 percent to $744 million).  

The increase in external and
internal financing revenue was due to higher average asset balances and higher
asset yields.  

Global Financing gross profit increased 18.4 percent compared to 2007,
with gross margin increasing 3.3 points. This was due to higher margins on
financing and used equipment sales.  

The increase in 2007 revenue, as compared to 2006, was primarily due to:  

Growth in external revenue of
5.8 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) primarily driven by increased
used equipment sales (up 12.7 percent to $704 million); partially offset by  

A decline in internal revenue
of 3.0 percent, due primarily to lower used equipment sales to the Systems and
Technology segment (down 15.7 percent to $780 million), partially offset by an
increase in internal financing revenue of 16.6 percent to $702 million. The
increase in financing revenue was due to higher average asset balances and
higher asset yields.  

Global
Financing gross profit increased 2.2 percent in 2007 versus 2006, with gross
margin declining 0.1 point. This was due to higher margin used equipment sales
largely offset by margin compression on financing revenue due to higher
borrowing costs.  

Global Financing pre-tax income increased 16.7 percent in 2008 versus
2007, compared to a decrease of 4.7 percent in 2007 versus 2006. The increase
in 2008 was driven by the increase in gross profit of $399 million, partially
offset by an increase in accounts receivable provisions of $159 million. The
decrease in 2007 was driven by an increase of $90 million in accounts
receivable provisions, partially offset by the increase in gross profit of $46
million. The increase in accounts receivable provisions in 2008 was primarily
due to current economic conditions. Overall accounts receivable coverage rate
is 2.0 percent at December 31, 2008, an increase of 0.7 points versus
2007.  

The increase in return on equity from 2007 to 2008 was primarily due to
higher after-tax income, while the decrease from 2006 to 2007 was primarily due
to lower after-tax income.  

FINANCIAL CONDITION   

Balance
Sheet   

(a)  

Includes intercompany
  mark-up, priced on an arms-length basis, on products purchased from the
  company s product divisions, which is eliminated in IBM s consolidated
  results.  

(b)  

Entire
  amount eliminated for purposes of IBM s consolidated results and therefore
  does not appear on page 61.  

(c)  

These
  assets, along with all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at
  the value in the table using Global Financing debt.  

(d)  

Global   Financing
  debt is comprised of intercompany loans and external debt. A portion of
  Global Financing debt is in support of the company s internal business, or
  related to intercompany mark-up embedded in the Global Financing assets. See
  table on page 57.  

Sources and Uses of Funds   

The primary use of funds in Global Financing is to originate client and
commercial financing assets. Client financing assets for end users consist
primarily of IBM hardware, software and services, but also include non-IBM
equipment, software and services to meet IBM clients  total solutions
requirements. Client financing assets are primarily sales type, direct
financing and operating leases for equipment, as well as loans for hardware,
software and services with terms generally for two to seven years. Global
Financing s client loans are primarily for software and services and are
unsecured. These loans are subjected to additional credit analysis in order to
mitigate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, covenants are put into
agreements to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the
obligation. Client financing also includes internal activity as described on
page 53.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING   

53   

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

18   

Notes   

66   

54  

Commercial financing receivables arise primarily from inventory and
accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM
products. Payment terms for inventory financing and accounts receivable
financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. These short-term receivables are
primarily unsecured and are also subject to additional credit actions in order
to mitigate the associated risk.  

Approximately 97 percent of Global Financing s external financing assets
are in the segment s core competency of technology equipment and solutions
financing. At December 31, 2008, approximately 60 percent of the external
portfolio is with investment grade clients with no exposure to consumers or
mortgage-lending institutions.  

Originations   

The following are total
external and internal financing originations.  

Cash collections exceeded new financing originations for both client and
commercial financing in 2008. When combined with currency impacts, this
resulted in a net decrease in financing assets from December 31, 2007. The
increase in originations in 2008 from 2007, as well as the increase in 2007
versus 2006, was due to improving volumes in both client and commercial
financing.  

Cash generated by Global
Financing in 2008 was primarily deployed to pay the intercompany payables and
dividends to IBM.  

Global
Financing Receivables and Allowances   

The following table presents external financing receivables, excluding
residual values, and the allowance for doubtful accounts.  

Roll-Forward of Financing Receivables Allowance for Doubtful
Accounts   

*  

Represents reserved
  receivables, net of recoveries, that were disposed of during the period.  

**  

Primarily
  represents translation adjustments.  

The
percentage of financing receivables reserved increased from 1.3 percent at
December 31, 2007, to 2.0 percent at December 31, 2008 primarily due
to the increase in the specific allowance for doubtful accounts. Specific
reserves increased 67.8 percent from $230 million at December 31, 2007 to
$386 million at December 31, 2008 due to current economic conditions.
Unallocated reserves increased 4.3 percent from $138 million at
December 31, 2007, to $144 million at December 31, 2008. Global
Financing s bad debt expense was an addition of $229 million for 2008 and an
addition of $70 million for 2007. The increase was primarily attributed to the
growth of the specific reserves.  

Residual Value   

Residual value is a risk
unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the
ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception.
Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products
under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors
projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual
values reflected in the portfolio. See note A,  Significant Accounting
Policies,  on page 75 for the company s accounting policy for residual
values.  

Global
Financing optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced
from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease
arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment, which are primarily
sourced from equipment returned at end of lease, represented 39.7 percent of
Global Financing s revenue in 2008 and 37.3 percent in 2007. The increase was
driven primarily by the increase in internal used equipment sales to the
Systems and Technology segment. The gross margin on these sales was 50.0
percent and 43.7 percent in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase is
primarily driven by a shift in mix toward higher margin internal used equipment
sales.  

The
table on page 56 presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual value
for sales-type, direct financing and operating leases at December 31, 2007
and 2008. In addition, the table presents the residual value as a percentage of
the original amount financed, and a schedule of when the unguaranteed residual
value assigned to equipment on leases at December 31, 2008 is expected to
be returned to the company. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a
limited basis, Global Financing obtains guarantees of the future value  

55  

of the equipment to be returned at end of
lease. These third-party guarantees are included in minimum lease payments as
provided for by accounting standards in the determination of lease
classifications for the covered equipment and provide protection against risk of
loss arising from declines in equipment values for these assets. The residual
value guarantee increases the minimum lease payments that are utilized in
determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease or an operating
lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees were $1,083
million and $682 million for financing transactions originated during the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In 2008, the residual
value guarantee program resulted in the company recognizing approximately $489
million of revenue that would otherwise have been recognized in future periods as
operating lease revenue. If the company had chosen to not participate in a
residual value program in 2008 and prior years, the 2008 impact would be
substantially mitigated by the effect of prior year asset values being
recognized as operating lease revenue in the current year. The associated
aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $56
million and $38 million for financing transactions originated during the same time
periods, respectively. The cost of guarantees was $7 million for the year ended
December 31, 2008, and $5 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

Unguaranteed
Residual Value   

Debt   

The
company funds Global Financing through borrowings using a debt-to-equity ratio
target of approximately 7 to 1. The debt used to fund Global Financing assets
is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. The terms of the
intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term and
currency underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm s-length
pricing. Both assets and debt are presented in the Global Financing balance
sheet on page 54.  

The Global Financing business provides funding predominantly for the
company s external clients but also provides intercompany financing for the
company, as described in the  Description of Business    on page 53.
As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as if it were a
standalone entity and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting
Global Financing s external client and internal business is included in the
 Global Financing Results of Operations  on pages 53 and 54 and in note V,
 Segment Information,  on pages 116 to 119.  

In the company s Consolidated Statement of Earnings on page 60,
however, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global
Financing s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of
financing to interest expense.  

The table on page 57 provides additional information on total
company debt. In this table, intercompany activity is comprised of internal
loans and leases at arm s length pricing in support of Global Services 
long-term contracts and other internal activity. The company believes these
assets should be appropriately levered in line with the overall Global
Financing business model.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

ROAD MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL FINANCING   

53   

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting
  Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

56  

Liquidity
and Capital Resources   

Global Financing is a segment
of the company and as such, is supported by the company s overall liquidity
position and access to capital markets. Cash generated by Global Financing was
primarily deployed to pay the intercompany payables and dividends to the
company in order to maintain an appropriate debt-to-equity ratio.  

RETURN ON EQUITY   

*                     Calculated based
upon an estimated tax rate principally based on Global Financing s geographic
mix of earnings as IBM s provision for income taxes is determined on a
consolidated basis.  

**              Average of the ending equity for Global Financing for
the last five quarters.  

LOOKING FORWARD   

Global Financing s financial
position provides flexibility and funding capacity which enables the company to
be well positioned in the current environment. Global Financing s assets and
new financing volumes are primarily IBM products and services financed to the
company s clients and business partners, and substantially all financing assets
are IT related assets which provide a stable base of business for future
growth.  

The
company s System z and high-end converged System p servers announced in 2008
are a significant financing opportunity. Global Financing s offerings are
competitive and available to clients as a result of the company s borrowing
cost and access to the capital markets. Overall, Global Financing s
originations will be dependent upon the demand for IT products and services as
well as client participation rates.  

Although
funding costs have risen, IBM has continued to access both the short-term
commercial paper market and the medium and long-term debt markets. A protracted
period where IBM could not access the capital markets would likely lead to a
slowdown in originations.  

Interest
rates and the overall economy (including currency fluctuations) will have an
effect on both revenue and gross profit. The company s interest rate risk
management policy, however, combined with the Global Financing pricing
strategy, should mitigate gross margin erosion due to changes in interest
rates.  

The
economy could impact the credit quality of the Global Financing receivables
portfolio and therefore the level of provision for bad debts. Global Financing
will continue to apply rigorous credit policies in both the origination of new
business and the evaluation of the existing portfolio.  

As
discussed on pages 55 and 56, Global Financing has historically been able
to manage residual value risk both through insight into the company s product
cycles, as well as through its remarketing business.  

Global
Financing has policies in place to manage each of the key risks involved in
financing. These policies, combined with product and client knowledge, should
allow for the prudent management of the business going forward, even during
periods of uncertainty with respect to the economy.  

57  

Report of     Management   
     INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
  CORPORATION and Subsidiary Companies   

MANAGEMENT
RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Responsibility
for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in
this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates
and judgments as required.  

IBM maintains an effective internal
control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational arrangements with
clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority, and
comprehensive systems and control procedures. An important element of the
control environment is an ongoing internal audit program. Our system also
contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct
deficiencies as they are identified.  

To assure the effective
administration of internal controls, we carefully select and train our
employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide
appropriate communication channels and foster an environment conducive to the
effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the
company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical
standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These
guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees
throughout the world, and re-emphasized through internal programs to assure that
they are understood and followed.  

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBM s
Consolidated Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control
over financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States).  

The Audit Committee of the Board of
Directors is composed solely of independent, non-management directors, and is
responsible for recommending to the Board the independent registered public
accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to stockholder
ratification. The Audit Committee meets periodically and privately with the
independent registered public accounting firm, with the company s internal
auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting, auditing,
internal control structure and financial reporting matters.  

MANAGEMENT S
REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING   

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting of the company. Internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial   reporting
and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  

The company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that
(i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail,
accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets
of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are
recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made
only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or
timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Management conducted an evaluation
of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the
framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this
evaluation, management concluded that the company s internal control over
financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.  

Samuel J. Palmisano  

Chairman of the Board,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

February 24, 2009  

Mark Loughridge  

Senior Vice President,  

Chief Financial Officer  

February 24, 2009  

Management Discussion   

18   

ROAD
  MAP  

18  

FORWARD-LOOKING
  AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS  

18  

MANAGEMENT
  DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT  

19  

DESCRIPTION
  OF BUSINESS  

20  

YEAR
  IN REVIEW  

25  

PRIOR
  YEAR IN REVIEW  

39  

DISCONTINUED
  OPERATIONS  

44  

OTHER
  INFORMATION  

44  

GLOBAL
  FINANCING  

53  

Report Of Management   

58   

Report
  Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

58  

Report
  of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary
  Companies   

TO THE STOCKHOLDERS AND BOARD OF
DIRECTORS OF INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION:   

In
our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on
pages 60 through 119 present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of International Business Machines Corporation and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2008 in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in
Internal Control   Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is
responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal
control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on
page 58. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial
statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based
on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting
was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements
included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

As discussed in note B to the
financial statements, the Company adopted the provisions of Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,  as of December 31, 2006.  

A company s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of
the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management
and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.  

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

59  

Consolidated Statement of
  Earnings   
     INTERNATIONAL
  BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary Companies   

The accompanying notes on
pages 66 through 119 are an integral part of the financial statements.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of
  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

60  

Consolidated
  Statement of Financial Position   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary
  Companies   

* Reclassified to conform
with 2008 presentation of deferred taxes, previously combined in investments
and sundry assets.  

The accompanying notes on
pages 66 through 119 are an integral part of the financial statements.  

61  

Consolidated Statement of Cash
  Flows   
     INTERNATIONAL
  BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary Companies   

*                    Non-operating
finance receivables   net represents cash flows from short-term commercial
financing arrangements (terms generally 30 to 90 days) with dealers and
remarketers of predominantly non-IBM products. Amounts previously presented
gross within purchases/proceeds of marketable securities and other investments. 

The accompanying notes on pages 66 through 119 are an integral part
of the financial statements.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

62  

Consolidated
  Statement of Stockholders  Equity   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary
  Companies   

* Foreign currency
translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges shown net of
tax.     

  The accompanying notes on
pages 66 through 119 are an integral part of the financial statements.  

63  

* Foreign currency
translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges shown net of
tax.  

The accompanying notes on
pages 66 through 119 are an integral part of the financial statements.  

Management
  Discussion   

18   

Report Of
  Management   

58   

Report Of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

59   

Consolidated
  Statements   

60   

Notes   

66   

64  

* Foreign currency
translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges shown net of
tax.   

The accompanying notes on
pages 66 through 119 are an integral part of the financial statements.  

65  

Notes to Consolidated
  Financial Statements   

INTERNATIONAL
  BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION and Subsidiary Companies   

NOTE A.    

   Significant
Accounting Policies   

BASIS OF PRESENTATION   

The accompanying consolidated
financial statements and footnotes thereto of the International Business
Machines Corporation (IBM and/or the company) have been prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America
(GAAP).  

On
December 31, 2002, the company sold its hard disk drive (HDD) business to
Hitachi, Ltd. (Hitachi). The HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued
operation and therefore, the HDD results of operations and cash flows have been
removed from the company s results of continuing operations and cash flows for
all periods presented in this document except 2008, in which there was no
activity. For 2006, income from discontinued operations, net of tax, was
related to tax benefits from tax audit settlements.  

Within
the financial tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the
use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are
calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts
have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is
annotated where applicable.  

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION   

The Consolidated Financial
Statements include the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which
are generally majority owned. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs)
as defined by Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation
No. 46(R),  Accounting for Variable Interest Entities,  (FIN 46(R)), are
included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, if required. Investments in
business entities in which the company does not have control, but has the
ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial
policies, are accounted for using the equity method and the company s
proportionate share of income or loss is recorded in other (income) and
expense. The accounting policy for other investments in equity securities is
described on page 75 within  Marketable Securities.  Equity investments in
non-publicly traded entities are primarily accounted for using the cost method.
All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in
consolidation.  

USE OF ESTIMATES   

The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs,
expenses and gains and losses not affecting retained earnings that are reported
in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These
estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events,
historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and
on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the
circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these
estimates. See pages 48 to 51 for a discussion of the company s critical
accounting estimates.  

REVENUE   

The company recognizes
revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company considers
revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an
arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable
and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery does not occur until
products have been shipped or services have been provided to the client, risk
of loss has transferred to the client, and either client acceptance has been
obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective
evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have
been satisfied. The sales price is not considered to be fixed or determinable
until all contingencies related to the sale have been resolved.  

The
company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and
distributors (herein referred to as  resellers ) when the reseller has economic
substance apart from the company, credit risk, title and risk of loss to the
inventory, the fee to the company is not contingent upon resale or payment by
the end user, the company has no further obligations related to bringing about
resale or delivery and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  

The
company reduces revenue for estimated client returns, stock rotation, price
protection, rebates and other similar allowances. (See Schedule II,  Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  included in the company s Annual Report
on Form 10-K). Revenue is recognized only if these estimates can be
reasonably and reliably determined. The company bases its estimates on
historical results taking into consideration the type of client, the type of
transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Payments made under
cooperative marketing programs are recognized as an expense only if the company
receives from the client an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from
the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably and reliably estimated. If
the company does not receive an identifiable  

66  

benefit
sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably
estimated, such payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue.  

Revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is
recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client
and vendor and gross when the company is a principal to the transaction.
Several factors are considered to determine whether the company is an agent or
principal, most notably whether the company is the primary obligor to the
client, or has inventory risk. Consideration is also given to whether the
company adds meaningful value to the vendor s product or service, was involved
in the selection of the vendor s product or service, has latitude in
establishing the sales price or has credit risk.  

The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by
governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific
revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general
policies, the following are the specific revenue recognition policies for
multiple-element arrangements and for each major category of revenue.  

Multiple-Element
Arrangements   

The
company enters into multiple-element revenue arrangements, which may include
any combination of services, software, hardware and/or financing. To the extent
that a deliverable in a multiple-element arrangement is subject to specific
guidance, such as, leased hardware which is subject to Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 13,  Accounting for Leases,  or software
which is subject to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 97-2,  Software Revenue
Recognition,  (see  Software  on page 68) on whether and/or how to
separate multiple deliverable arrangements into separate units of accounting
(separability) and how to allocate the arrangement consideration among those
separate units of accounting (allocation), that deliverable is accounted for in
accordance with such specific guidance. For all other deliverables in
multiple-element arrangements, the guidance below is applied for separability
and allocation. A multiple-element arrangement is separated into more than one
unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met:  

The delivered item(s) has value to the
client on a stand-alone basis; 

                        There is objective and reliable evidence of
the fair value of the undelivered item(s); and 

                        If the arrangement includes a general right of
return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the
undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the
control of the company. 

If
these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of
accounting which would result in revenue being recognized on a straight-line
basis or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when
the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each
element and there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all
units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is
allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative
fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there is objective and
reliable evidence of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such
evidence for the delivered item(s). In those cases, the residual method is used
to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount
of consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the total
arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the undelivered
item(s). The revenue policies described below are then applied to each unit of
accounting, as applicable.  

Services   

The
company s primary services offerings include information technology (IT)
datacenter and business process outsourcing, application management services,
consulting and systems integration, technology infrastructure and system
maintenance, Web hosting and the design and development of complex IT systems
to a client s specifications (design and build). These services are provided on
a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per
measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year
to over 10 years.  

Revenue from IT datacenter and business process
outsourcing contracts is recognized in the period the services are provided
using either an objective measure of output or a straight-line basis over the term
of the contract. Under the output method, the amount of revenue recognized is
based on the services delivered in the period.   

Revenue from application management services,
technology infrastructure and system maintenance and Web hosting contracts is recognized
on a straight-line basis over the terms of the contracts. Revenue from
time-and-material contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered and
direct expenses are incurred. Revenue related to extended warranty and product
maintenance contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery
period.  

Revenue from fixed-price design and build contracts
is recognized in accordance with SOP No. 81-1,  Accounting for Performance
of Construction-Type and Certain Production-Type Contracts,  under the
percentage-of-completion (POC) 
method.  Under the POC method,
revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage
of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. If circumstances
arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of
progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These
revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs,
and such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the
circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by management.  

The company performs ongoing profitability analyses
of its services contracts accounted for under the POC method in order to determine
whether the latest estimates of revenue, costs and profits require
updating.  If at any time these estimates
indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for
the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC service
contracts, losses are recorded as incurred.  

67  

In some of the company s services contracts, the company bills the
client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. Deferred
income of $6,403 million and $5,997 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.
The year-to-year increase was driven by growth in the Global Services business
and the impacts of currency. In other services contracts, the company performs
the services prior to billing the client. Unbilled accounts receivable of
$2,090 million and $2,192 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively, are included in notes and accounts receivable-trade in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Billings usually occur in the
month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific
contractual provisions. Unbilled receivables are expected to be billed within
four months.  

Hardware   

Revenue
from hardware sales and sales-type leases is recognized when risk of loss has
transferred to the client and there are no unfulfilled company obligations that
affect the client s final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard
warranties and remaining obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory
are accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals
and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of
the rental or lease.  

Software   

Revenue
from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the
inception of the license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been
met. Revenue from term (recurring license charge) license software is
recognized on a subscription basis over the period that the client is entitled
to use the license. Revenue from maintenance, unspecified upgrades on a
when-and-if-available basis and technical support is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the period such items are delivered. In
multiple-element revenue arrangements that include software that is more than
incidental to the products or services as a whole (software multiple-element
arrangements), software and software-related elements are accounted for in
accordance with the following criteria. Software-related elements include
software products and services, as well as any non-software deliverable for
which a software deliverable is essential to its functionality.  

A software multiple-element arrangement is separated into more than one
unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met:  

The
functionality of the delivered element(s) is not dependent on the
undelivered element(s); 

There is vendor-specific objective evidence
(VSOE) of fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of fair value is based
on the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately by the company on
a regular basis and not as part of the multiple-element arrangement; and 

Delivery of the delivered element(s) represents
the culmination of the earnings process for that element(s). 

If
any one of these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one
unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized on a
straight-line basis or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria
are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria
are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair value for all units of
accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the
separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative VSOE of fair value.
There may be cases, however, in which there is VSOE of fair value of the
undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s). In
these cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement
consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated
to the delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less
the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements.  

Financing   

Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing
leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective
interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis
over the term of the lease.  

SERVICES
COSTS   

Recurring operating costs for services contracts, including costs
related to bid and proposal activities, are recognized as incurred. For fixed
price design and build contracts, the costs of external hardware and software
accounted for under the POC method are deferred and recognized based on the
labor costs incurred to date, as a percentage of the total estimated labor
costs to fulfill the contract. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in
the initial phases of outsourcing contracts are deferred and subsequently
amortized. These costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the
installation of systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line
basis over the expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the
contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with outsourcing contracts are
capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful
life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation
period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term.  

68  

Amounts
paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in
outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as
a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the
term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the
recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is
done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a
contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash
flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, a loss is
recognized.  

Deferred services transition and setup costs were $2,023 million and
$1,881 million at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007,
respectively. The primary driver of the increase was the continued growth of
the Global Services business. Amortization expense of deferred services
transition and setup costs is estimated at December 31, 2008 to be $522
million in 2009, $435 million in 2010, $379 million in 2011, $280 million in
2012 and $407 million thereafter.  

Deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired
assets used in outsourcing arrangements were $119 million and $202 million at December 31,
2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts
paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as
an offset of revenue and is estimated at December 31, 2008 to be $44
million in 2009, $44 million in 2010, $21 million in 2011, $4 million in 2012
and $6 million thereafter.  

In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms
of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the
recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred
to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any
additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services.  

SOFTWARE COSTS   

Costs
that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed programs
are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense;
costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological
feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset.
Capitalized amounts are amortized using the straight-line method, which is
applied over periods ranging up to three years. The company performs periodic
reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future
revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software
cost as incurred.  

The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or
to create and implement internal-use computer software, which includes software
coding, installation, testing and certain data conversions. These capitalized
costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over two years and are recorded in
selling, general and administrative expense. See note J,  Intangible Assets
Including Goodwill,  on pages 87 and 88.  

PRODUCT
WARRANTIES   

The company offers warranties for its hardware products that range up to
three years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs
for warranty terms standard to the deliverable are recognized when revenue is
recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs
standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and
applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty.
Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the
current period are charged to cost of revenue. The warranty accrual is reviewed
quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on
the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period.
Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from
estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including
extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred.  

Revenue from extended
warranty contracts, for which the company is obligated to perform, is recorded
as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over
the delivery period.  

Changes in the company s
deferred income for extended warranty contracts and warranty liability for
standard warranties, which are included in other accrued expenses and
liabilities and other liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position, are presented in the following tables:  

Standard Warranty Liability   

Extended Warranty Liability   

(a)    Other consists primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments. 

69  

SHIPPING AND HANDLING   

Costs
related to shipping and handling are recognized as incurred and included in
cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

EXPENSE AND OTHER INCOME   

Selling,
General and Administrative   

Selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expense is charged to income as incurred.
Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as
selling expense and include such items as compensation, advertising, sales
commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items
as compensation, office supplies, non-income taxes, insurance and office
rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other
operating items such as a provision for doubtful accounts, workforce accruals
for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing
course of business, amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental
remediation costs.  

Advertising
and Promotional Expense   

The
company expenses advertising and promotional costs when incurred. Cooperative
advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and
promotional expense in the period the related advertising and promotional
expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media,
agency and promotional expense, was $1,259 million, $1,242 million and $1,195
million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and is recorded in SG A
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Research,
Development and Engineering   

Research,
development and engineering (RD E) costs are expensed as incurred.  

Intellectual
Property and Custom Development Income   

As
part of the company s business model and as a result of ongoing investment in
research and development, the company licenses and sells the rights to certain
of its intellectual property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade
secrets and technological know-how. Certain transfers of IP to third parties
are licensing/royalty-based and other transfers are transaction-based sales and
other transfers. Licensing/royalty-based fees involve transfers in which the
company earns the income over time, or the amount of income is not fixed or
determinable until the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable
royalty, based upon licensee s revenue). Sales and other transfers typically
include transfers of IP whereby the company has fulfilled its obligations and
the fee received is fixed or determinable at the transfer  date. The company also enters into
cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these arrangements is
recorded only to the extent cash is received. Furthermore, the company earns
income from certain custom development projects for strategic technology
partners and specific clients. The company records the income from these
projects when the fee is realized or realizable and earned, is not refundable
and is not dependent upon the success of the project. 

Other
(Income) and Expense   

Other
(income) and expense includes interest income (other than from Global Financing
external business transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative
instruments, gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and
losses from certain real estate transactions, foreign currency transaction
gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale of businesses and amounts
related to accretion of asset retirement obligations.  

BUSINESS
COMBINATIONS AND  
INTANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDING GOODWILL   

The
company accounts for business combinations using the purchase method and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities are recorded
at their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Goodwill represents the
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the
amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that
generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and
the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as
an identifiable intangible asset. Identifiable intangible assets with finite
lives are amortized over their useful lives. See note C,  Acquisitions/
Divestitures,  on pages 78 through 83 and note J,  Intangible Assets
Including Goodwill,  on pages 87 and 88, for additional information. The
results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements from the acquisition date. In conjunction with the
adoption of SFAS 141(R),  Business Combinations,  the company expensed
transaction costs as incurred for acquisitions not completed in 2008. There are
no deferred acquisition costs recorded on the December 31, 2008
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

IMPAIRMENT   

Long-lived
assets, other than goodwill, are tested for impairment based on undiscounted
cash flows and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either
discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill is tested annually for
impairment, or sooner when circumstances indicate an impairment may exist,
using a fair-value approach  

70  

at
the reporting unit level. A reporting unit is the operating segment, or a
business, which is one level below that operating segment (the  component 
level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by
management at the segment level. Components are aggregated as a single
reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics.  

DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION   

Plant,
rental machines and other property are carried at cost and depreciated over
their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated
useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 50 years;
building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant,
laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 15 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to
5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their
estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years.  

Capitalized software costs incurred or acquired after technological
feasibility has been established are amortized over periods ranging up to 3
years. Capitalized costs for internal-use software are amortized on a
straight-line basis over periods up to 2 years. (See  Software Costs  on page 69
for additional information). Other intangible assets are amortized over periods
between 2 and 7 years.  

ENVIRONMENTAL   

The
cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in
nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it
is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be
reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known
environmental liabilities. The company s maximum exposure for all environmental
liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental
liabilities that are not probable or estimable.  

ASSET RETIREMENT OBLIGATIONS   

Asset
retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the
retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at
fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing
the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability.
Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of
the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records
period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of
time in interest expense and revisions to either the timing or the amount of
the original expected cash flows to the related assets.  

DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION AND NONPENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS   

The
funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans and nonpension
postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the
benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit
pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation
(PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be
paid upon retirement based on estimated future compensation levels. For the
nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the
actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee
services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current
market value of cumulative company and participant contributions made to an
irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are
invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan
assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a
prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit
obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded
as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this
excess.  

The current portion of the
retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the
actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the
fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis.  This obligation is recorded in compensation
and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

Net periodic pension and
nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return
on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and
(gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of gains and (losses) not
affecting retained earnings and amortization of the net transition asset
remaining in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings.
Service cost represents the actuarial present value of participant benefits
earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the time value of money
cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events, such as changes in
employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, result in
a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding change in the gains
and (losses) not affecting retained earnings. The result of these events is
amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the service lives
of the participants, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based
upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. The average service
lives of the participants in the IBM Personal Pension Plan, a United States
(U.S.) defined benefit pension plan, currently  

71  

approximates
10 years and varies for participants in non-U.S. plans. Net periodic
cost/(income) is recorded in cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective function.  

(Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) not recognized as a
component of net periodic cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings as they arise are recognized as a component of gains and (losses) not
affecting retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders 
Equity, net of tax. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are
subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant
to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting
standards. (Gains)/ losses arise as a result of differences between actual
experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions.
Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of benefit improvements
attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments.  

The measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/ (income)
is based on estimates and assumptions approved by the company s management.
These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific
information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain
assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan
assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality
rates.  

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS   

The
company records expense for defined contribution plans for the company s
contribution when the employee renders service to the company, essentially
coinciding with the cash contributions to the plans. The expense is recorded in
cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on
the employees  respective function.  

STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION   

Stock-based
compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to
employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost at grant date,
based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on a
straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite
service period. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a
Black-Scholes valuation model. The cost is recorded in cost, SG A, and
RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees 
respective function.  

The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in
deductions on the company s income tax returns, based on the amount of
compensation cost recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in
which it will receive a deduction. Differences  between the deferred tax assets recognized for
financial reporting purposes and
the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded in
additional paid-in capital (if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax
asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (if the deferred tax asset
exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from
previous awards). 

See note T,  Stock-Based Compensation,  on pages 103 to 106 for
additional information.  

INCOME TAXES   

Income
tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income
taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and
liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are
measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are
recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely
than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance,
management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including
past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility
of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its determination
as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation
allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the
period in which such determination is made.  

The company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the company s
belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that
certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities.
Benefits from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that
is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The
current portion of tax liabilities is included in taxes and the noncurrent
portion of tax liabilities is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position. To the extent that the final tax outcome of
these matters is different than the amounts recorded, such differences impact
income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest
and penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax
assessments are included in income tax expense.  

TRANSLATION OF NON-U.S. CURRENCY
AMOUNTS   

Assets
and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency
are translated to U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation
adjustments are recorded in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings in the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity. Income
and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year.  

72  

Inventories,
plant, rental machines and other property net and other non-monetary assets and
liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars
are translated at the approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company
acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities
denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end
exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in other (income)
and expense. Cost of sales and depreciation are translated at historical
exchange rates.  All other income and
expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange
prevailing during the year. These translation gains and losses are included in
net income for the period in which exchange rates change.  

DERIVATIVES   

All derivatives are recognized in
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported
in prepaid expenses and other current assets, investments and sundry assets,
other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities.  Classification of each derivative as current
or noncurrent is based upon whether the maturity of the instrument is less than
or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge accounting in accordance with
SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities,  as amended by SFAS No. 138,  Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities,  SFAS No. 149,  Amendment
of Statement 133 on Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  and SFAS No. 155,
 Accounting for Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments An Amendment of FASB
Statements No. 133 and140  (collectively,  SFAS No. 133 ), the
company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk
exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash
flows, hedge effectiveness criteria also require that it be probable that the
underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting
criteria are formally designated as hedges. 
These criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly
effective at offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying
exposure both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis.
The method of assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness
is formally documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge
effectiveness and measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout
the designated hedge period.  

The
company applies hedge accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 133, whereby
the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value
of a recognized financial asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm
commitment (fair value hedge); (2) the variability of anticipated cash
flows of a forecasted transaction or the cash flows to be received or paid
related to a recognized financial asset or liability (cash flow hedge); or (3) a
hedge of a long-term investment (net investment hedge) in a foreign operation.
In addition, the company may enter into derivative contracts that economically
hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the
company elects not to apply hedge accounting under SFAS No. 133. In these
cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in the fair
value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income, act as
an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged
item(s).  

Changes in the fair value of
a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge, along with offsetting
changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure, are recorded in
earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value
adjustments are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and cost of
financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For hedges of currency
risk associated with recorded financial assets or liabilities, derivative fair
value adjustments are recognized in other (income) and expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative
that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of applicable taxes,
in the accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings, a
component of stockholders  equity. When net income is affected by the
variability of the underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of
the gain or loss from the derivative that is deferred in stockholders  equity
is released to net income and reported in interest expense, cost, SG A
expense or other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
based on the nature of the underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net
investment hedging derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The
effective portion of changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives
and other non-derivative financial instruments designated as net investment
hedges are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments, net of
applicable taxes, in the accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings
section of the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity. Changes in the
fair value of the portion of a net investment hedging derivative excluded from
the effectiveness assessment are recorded in interest expense.  

When the underlying hedged
item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are
included in net income each period until the instrument matures. When the
derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or liability is no
longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required under other
relevant accounting standards. Derivatives that are not designated as hedges,
as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not effectively
offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item throughout the designated
hedge period (collectively,  ineffectiveness ), are recorded in net income each
period and are reported in other (income) and expense.  

The company reports cash
flows arising from derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or
cash flow hedges consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying
hedged items that these derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows
associated with derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges are classified
in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows. Cash flows from derivatives  

73  

designated as net investment hedges
and derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are reported in investing
activities. For currency swaps designated as hedges of foreign currency
denominated debt (included in the company s debt risk management program as
addressed in note L,  Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 90
to 94), cash flows directly associated with the settlement of the principal element
of these swaps are reported in payments to settle debt in the cash flow from
financing activities section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   

In determining the fair value of
its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and
assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each
balance sheet date. Refer to note E,  Financial Instruments (Excluding
Derivatives),  on pages 85 and 86 for further information. All methods of
assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value
may never actually be realized.  

FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT   

Exit prices are used to measure
assets and liabilities that fall within the scope of SFAS No. 157,  Fair
Value Measurements.  Under SFAS No. 157, the company is required to
classify certain assets and liabilities based on the following fair value
hierarchy:  

Level 1 Quoted prices in active
  markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for
  identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;  

Level 2 Quoted prices for
  identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, quoted
  prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or financial
  instruments for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or
  indirectly; and  

Level 3 Prices or valuations that
  require inputs that are both significant to the fair value measurement and
  unobservable.  

SFAS No. 157 requires the use
of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and
effort.  

When available, the company
uses unadjusted quoted market prices to measure the fair value and classifies
such items within Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair
value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based
or independently-sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency
rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according
to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.  

The
determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate
yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For
derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow
analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.
In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a nonpublic equity method
investment, the company uses the net asset value of its investment in the
investee adjusted using discounted cash flows for the company s estimate of the
price that it would receive to sell the investment to a market participant that
would consider all factors that would impact the investment s fair value.  

In
determining the fair value of financial instruments, the company considers
certain market valuation adjustments to the  base valuations  calculated using
the methodologies described below for several parameters that market
participants would consider in determining fair value.  

Counterparty credit risk
  adjustments are applied to financial instruments, where the base valuation
  uses market parameters based on an AA (or equivalent) credit rating. Due to
  the fact that not all counterparties have a AA (or equivalent) credit rating,
  it is necessary to take into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty
  as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair
  value of such an instrument.  

Credit risk adjustments are
  applied to reflect the company s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities
  measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in
  developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the
  company s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market.  

Certain assets are measured at fair
value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets include equity method investments
that are recognized at fair value at the end of the period to the extent that
they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Certain assets that are
measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair
value measurements. These assets include public cost method investments that
are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.  

CASH
EQUIVALENTS   

All highly liquid investments
with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered
to be cash equivalents.  

74  

MARKETABLE SECURITIES   

Debt
securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to
be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt
securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and
alliance equity securities that are within the scope of SFAS No. 115,  Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,  are included in
investments and sundry assets. Those securities are considered available for
sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of
applicable taxes, recorded in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings within stockholders  equity. Realized gains and losses are
calculated based on the specific identification method. Other-than-temporary
declines in market value from original cost are charged to other (income) and
expense in the period in which the loss occurs. In determining whether an
other-than-temporary decline in the market value has occurred, the company
considers the duration that, and extent to which, the fair value of the
investment is below its cost. Realized gains and losses also are included in
other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

INVENTORIES   

Raw
materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average
cost or market. In accordance with SFAS No. 95,  Statement of Cash Flows, 
cash flows related to the sale of inventories are reflected in net cash from
operating activities from continuing operations in the Consolidated Statement
of Cash Flows.  

ALLOWANCE FOR UNCOLLECTIBLE
RECEIVABLES   

Trade   

An
allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a
combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known
troubled accounts.  

Financing   

Financing
receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans. The
methodologies that the company uses to calculate both its specific and its
unallocated reserves, which are applied consistently to its different
portfolios are as follows:  

SPECIFIC   The company reviews all financing account receivables    considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The
review primarily consists of an analysis based upon current information
available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports,
published credit ratings, current market-implied credit analysis, as well as
the current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior
collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is
measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this
information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable
and calculates a recommended estimate of the potential loss and the probability
of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records
a specific reserve. 

UNALLOCATED   The company records an unallocated reserve that    is calculated by applying a reserve rate to
its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically
reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of
default, term, asset characteristics and loss history. 

Receivable losses are charged against the allowance when management
believes the uncollectibility of the receivable is confirmed. Subsequent
recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.  

Certain receivables for which the company recorded specific reserves may
also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets are those receivables
(impaired loans or non-performing leases) with specific reserves and other
accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all
amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income
recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first
applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of
principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables
may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in
client circumstances.  

ESTIMATED RESIDUAL VALUES OF LEASE
ASSETS   

The
recorded residual values of the company s lease assets are estimated at the
inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end
of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of
its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future
residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing
efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are
considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon
identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual-value
estimate. For sales-type and direct financing leases, this reduction lowers the
recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income
in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to
unearned income to reduce future-period financing income.  

COMMON STOCK   

Common
stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the
company s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using
the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and
recorded using a weighted-average basis.  

75  

EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON
STOCK   

Basic earnings per share of common
stock is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of
common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted earnings per share of common
stock reflects the maximum potential dilution that could occur if securities or
other contracts to issue common stock were exercised or converted into common
stock and would then share in the net income of the company. See note R,  Earnings
Per Share of Common Stock,  on page 102 for additional information.  

Note B.  
Accounting Changes   

NEW STANDARDS TO BE IMPLEMENTED   

In December 2008, the FASB
issued FASB Staff Position (FSP) Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 132(R)-1
 Employers  Disclosures about Postretirement Benefit Plan Assets . This FSP
amends SFAS No. 132(R),  Employers  Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Post retirement
Benefits  to require more detailed disclosures about the fair value
measurements of employers  plan assets including (a) investment policies
and strategies; (b) major categories of plan assets; (c) information
about valuation techniques and inputs to those techniques, including the fair
value hierarchy classifications (as defined by SFAS No. 157) of the major
categories of plan assets; (d) the effects of fair value measurements
using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) on changes in plan assets; and
(e) significant concentrations of risk within plan assets. The disclosures
required by the FSP will be made in the December 31, 2009 Consolidated
Financial Statements. This Statement does not impact the consolidated financial
results as it is disclosure-only in nature. 

In November 2008, the
FASB ratified the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue 08-7,  Accounting for
Defensive Intangible Assets . A defensive intangible asset is an asset acquired
in a business combination or in an asset acquisition that an entity does not
intend to actively use. According to the guidance, defensive intangible assets
are considered to be a separate unit of account and valued based on their
highest and best use from the perspective of an external market participant.
EITF 08-7 is effective January 1, 2009. The adoption of this EITF issue is
not expected to have an impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In June 2008, the FASB
issued FSP EITF 03-6-1,  Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share-Based
Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities,  which will become effective
in 2009 via retrospective application. Under the FSP, unvested share-based
payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend
equivalents are participating securities and, therefore, are included in
computing earnings per share (EPS) pursuant to the two-class method. The
two-class method determines earnings per share for each class of common stock
and participating securities according to dividends or dividend equivalents and
their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. Restricted
Stock Units (RSUs) granted to employees prior to December 31, 2007 are
considered participating securities as they receive non-forfeitable dividend
equivalents at the same rate as common stock. RSUs granted after December 31,
2007 do not receive dividend equivalents and are not considered participating
securities. The company will adopt the FSP in fiscal year 2009. The
implementation of the FSP is expected to decrease diluted EPS by $0.04 and
$0.03 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007,
respectively. Basic EPS is expected to decrease by $0.05 in each of the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.  

In March 2008, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities an amendment of FASB Statement No. 133.  SFAS No. 161
expands the current disclosure requirements of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  such that entities must now
provide enhanced disclosures on a quarterly basis regarding how and why the
entity uses derivatives; how derivatives and related hedged items are accounted
for under SFAS No. 133 and how derivatives and related hedged items affect
the entity s financial position, financial results and cash flow. Pursuant to
the transition provisions of the Statement, the company will adopt SFAS No. 161
in fiscal year 2009 and will present the required disclosures in the prescribed
format on a prospective basis. This Statement does not impact the consolidated
financial results as it is disclosure-only in nature.  

In February 2008, the
FASB issued FSP FAS 157-2,  Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157.  FSP
FAS 157-2 delayed the effective date of SFAS No. 157  Fair Value
Measurements  from 2008 to 2009 for all nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial
liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of
the provisions of SFAS No. 157 related to nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities is not expected to have a material impact on the
Consolidated Financial Statements. See the  Standards Implemented  section of
this note for a further discussion of SFAS No. 157.  

In December 2007, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated
Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51.  This Statement requires
that the noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary be accounted for
and reported as equity, provides revised guidance on the treatment of net
income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest and changes in
ownership interests in a subsidiary and requires additional disclosures that  

76  

identify and distinguish between
the interests of the controlling and noncontrolling owners. Pursuant to the
transition provisions of SFAS No. 160, the company will adopt the
Statement on January 1, 2009 via retrospective application of the
presentation and disclosure requirements. The company does not expect the
adoption of this Statement to have a material effect on the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

In December 2007, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations,  which will become
effective in 2009 via prospective application to business combinations. This
Statement requires that the acquisition method of accounting be applied to a
broader set of business combinations, amends the definition of a business
combination, provides a definition of a business, requires an acquirer to
recognize an acquired business at its fair value at the acquisition date and
requires the assets and liabilities assumed in a business combination to be
measured and recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date (with
limited exceptions). The company will adopt this Statement in fiscal year 2009
and its effects on future periods will depend on the nature and significance of
business combinations subject to this statement.  

STANDARDS IMPLEMENTED   

In September 2006, the FASB
finalized SFAS No. 157 which became effective January 1, 2008 except
as amended by FSP FAS 157-2 as previously described and FSP FAS 157-1 and FSP
FAS 157-3 as discussed below. This Statement defines fair value, establishes a
framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value
measurements; however, it does not require any new fair value measurements. On January 1,
2008, the provisions of this Statement were applied prospectively to fair value
measurements and disclosures of (a) financial assets and financial
liabilities and (b) nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities which
are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a
recurring basis (at least annually). The adoption of this Statement did not
have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements for fair value
measurements made for the year ended December 31, 2008. See note D,  Fair
Value,  on page 84 for additional information.  

In February 2008, the
FASB issued FSP FAS 157-1,  Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB
Statement No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address Fair
Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or Measurement under
Statement 13 . FSP FAS 157-1 removed leasing from the scope of SFAS No. 157.
In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157-3,  Determining the Fair
Value of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset is Not Active . FSP
FAS 157-3 clarified the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active
and provided an example to illustrate key considerations in determining the
fair value of a financial asset when the market for that financial asset is not
active. FSP FAS 157-3 became effective immediately upon issuance, and its
adoption did not have an effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In February 2007, the
FASB issued SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and
Financial Liabilities, Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115, 
which became effective January 1, 2008. SFAS No. 159 permits entities
to measure eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm
commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are
otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other generally
accepted accounting principles. The fair value measurement election is
irrevocable and subsequent changes in fair value must be recorded in earnings.
The company adopted this Statement as of January 1, 2008 but has not
applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. Thus, the
adoption of this Statement did not affect the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

In
the first quarter of 2007, the company adopted SFAS No. 156,  Accounting
for Servicing of Financial Assets an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140, 
that provides guidance on accounting for separately recognized servicing assets
and servicing liabilities. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 156,
separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities must be
initially measured at fair value, if practicable. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the company may use either the amortization method or the fair
value measurement method to account for servicing assets and servicing
liabilities within the scope of this Statement. The adoption of this Statement
did not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

On
January 1, 2007, the company adopted SFAS No. 155,  Accounting for
Certain Hybrid Financial Instruments an amendment of FASB Statements No. 133
and 140,  which permits fair value remeasurement for any hybrid financial
instrument that contains an embedded derivative that otherwise would require
bifurcation in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.  The adoption of this
Statement did not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

The
company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48) on January 1,
2007. FIN 48 clarifies the accounting and reporting for uncertainties in income
tax law. This Interpretation prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial
statement recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of uncertain
tax positions taken or expected to be taken in income tax returns. The
cumulative effect of adopting FIN 48 was a decrease in tax reserves and an
increase of $117 million to the January 1, 2007 retained earnings balance.  

77  

Effective December 31,
2006, the company adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined
Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an Amendment of FASB Statements
No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R),  which requires the recognition of the funded
status of the retirement-related benefit plans in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position and the recognition of the changes in that funded status in
the year in which the changes occur through gains and (losses) not affecting
retained earnings, net of applicable tax effects. The provisions of SFAS No. 158
were adopted pursuant to the transition provisions therein. The company
measures defined benefit plan assets and obligations as of December 31 and
SFAS No. 158 did not affect the company s existing valuation practices.
The adoption of SFAS No. 158 had a significant non-cash impact on the
company s 2006 reported financial position and stockholders  equity, reducing
equity by $9.5 billion, net of tax. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 had no
impact on the company s existing debt covenants, credit ratings or financial
flexibility.  

In September 2006, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB)
No. 108, codified as SAB Topic 1.N,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial
Statements.  SAB No. 108 describes the approach that should be used to
quantify the materiality of a misstatement and provides guidance for correcting
prior-year errors. The company early adopted SAB No. 108 in the third
quarter of 2006 and accordingly, follows SAB No. 108 requirements when
quantifying financial statement misstatements. The adoption of SAB No. 108
did not require any changes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In the third quarter of 2006,
the company adopted FSP FIN 46(R)-6,  Determining the Variability to Be
Considered in Applying FASB Interpretation No. 46(R).  FSP FIN No. 46(R)-6
clarifies that the variability to be considered in applying FASB Interpretation
46(R) shall be based on an analysis of the design of the variable interest
entity. The adoption of this FSP did not have a material effect on the
Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In the first quarter of 2006,
the company adopted SFAS No. 154,  Accounting Changes and Error
Corrections a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3. 
SFAS No. 154 changed the requirements for the accounting for and reporting
of a voluntary change in accounting principle. The adoption of this statement
did not affect the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Beginning January 2006,
the company adopted SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs an amendment of ARB No. 43,
Chapter 4.  SFAS No. 151 requires certain abnormal expenditures to be
recognized as expenses in the current period versus being capitalized in
inventory. It also requires that the amount of fixed production overhead
allocated to inventory be based on the normal capacity of the production
facilities. The adoption of this statement did not have a material effect on
the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

Note C.  
Acquisitions/Divestitures   

ACQUISITIONS   

2008   

In 2008, the company completed 15
acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $6,796 million. The Cognos, Inc. and
Telelogic AB acquisitions are shown separately given their significant purchase
prices.  

COGNOS, INC. (COGNOS)     On January 31,
2008, the company    acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of
Cognos for consideration of $5,021 million consisting of $4,998 million of cash
and $24 million of equity instruments. Through this acquisition, IBM and Cognos
will become a leading provider of technology and services for business
intelligence and performance management, delivering the industry s most
complete, open standards-based platform with the broadest range of expertise to
help companies expand the value of their information, optimize their business
processes and maximize performance across their enterprises. The company
acquired Cognos to accelerate its Information on Demand strategy, a
cross-company initiative that combines the company s strength in information
integration, content and data management and business consulting services to
unlock the business value of information. Cognos was integrated into the
Software segment upon acquisition, and goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 79,
has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. It is expected that 20-30
percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall
weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets acquired, excluding
goodwill, is 6.5 years. 

78  

TELELOGIC, AB (TELELOGIC)     On April 3,
2008, IBM acquired        100 percent of the
outstanding common shares of Telelogic for cash consideration of $885 million.
Telelogic is a leading global provider of solutions that enable organizations
to align the development of products, complex systems and software with
business objectives and customer needs. This results in improved quality and
predictability, while reducing time-to-market and overall costs. Clients will
benefit from the combined technologies and services of both companies,
providing them a wider range of software and system development capabilities
used to build complex systems. Telelogic was integrated into the Software
segment upon acquisition, and goodwill, as reflected in the table below has
been entirely assigned to the Software segment. Substantially all of the
goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average
useful life of the intangible assets acquired, excluding goodwill, is 7.0
years.  

OTHER ACQUISITIONS     The company acquired 13
additional companies at an aggregate cost of $889 million that are presented in
the table below as  Other Acquisitions.   

The Software segment completed eight other acquisitions, seven of which
were privately held companies: in the first quarter; AptSoft Corporation, Solid
Information Technology, Net Integration Technologies Inc., and Encentuate, Inc;
in the second quarter; Infodyne, Beijing Super Info and FilesX. In the fourth
quarter, ILOG S.A. (ILOG), a publicly held company, was acquired for $295
million. ILOG adds significant capability across the company s entire software
platform and bolsters its existing rules management offerings.  

Global Technology Services (GTS) completed one acquisition in the first
quarter: Arsenal Digital Solutions, a privately held company.      Arsenal provides
global clients with security rich information protection services designed to
handle increasing data retention requirements.  

Global Business Services (GBS) completed one acquisition in the first
quarter: u9consult, a privately held company. u9consult complements the company s
existing capabilities in value chain consulting.  

Systems and Technology completed three acquisitions: in the second
quarter; Diligent Technologies Corporation and Platform Solutions, Inc (PSI),
both privately held companies. Diligent will be an important component of IBM s
New Enterprise Data Center model, which helps clients improve IT efficiency and
facilitates the rapid deployment of new IT services for future business growth.
PSI s technologies and skills, along with its intellectual capital, will be
integrated into the company s mainframe product engineering cycles and future
product plans. In the second quarter, $24 million of the purchase price of PSI
was attributed to the settlement of a preexisting lawsuit between IBM and PSI
and recorded in SG A expense. See note O,  Contingencies and Commitments, 
on pages 97 to 99 for additional information regarding this litigation.
Also, the company recorded a $24 million in-process research and development
(IPR D) charge related to this acquisition in the second quarter. The
acquisition of Transitive Corporation (Transitive) was completed in the fourth
quarter. Transitive s cross-platform technology will allow clients to
consolidate their Linux-based applications onto the IBM systems that make the
most sense for their business needs.  

Purchase price consideration for the  Other Acquisitions  was paid all
in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents.  

* Purchase price allocation
at December 31, 2008 reflects immaterial adjustments from the September 30,
2008 balances.   

  N/A Not
applicable  

79  

The table on page 79 reflects the purchase price related to these
acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31,
2008.  

The acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded
at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items
that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired
companies and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which
qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. For the  Other Acquisitions,  the
overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets
acquired is 4.3 years. With the exception of goodwill, these identified
intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives. Goodwill of $676 million has been assigned to the Software ($328
million), Global Technology Services ($68 million) and Systems and Technology
($280 million) segments. Substantially, all of the goodwill related to  Other
Acquisitions  is not deductible for tax purposes.  

See note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 70 for
further description of the company s accounting policies related to business
combinations and intangible assets, including goodwill.  

2007   

In
2007, the company completed 12 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $1,144
million.  

The Software segment completed six acquisitions: in the first quarter,
Consul Risk Management International BV and Vallent Corporation, both privately
held companies. Four acquisitions were completed in the third quarter:
Watchfire Corporation, WebDialogs Inc. and Princeton Softech Inc., all
privately held companies, and DataMirror Corporation, a publicly held company.
Each acquisition further complemented and enhanced the software product portfolio.  

Global Technology Services completed four acquisitions: in the first
quarter, Softek Storage Solutions Corporation (Softek) and DM Information
Systems, Ltd. (DMIS), both privately held companies. Two acquisitions were
completed in the fourth quarter: Novus Consulting Group, Inc. and Serbian
Business Systems, both privately held companies. Softek augments the company s
unified data mobility      offerings and worldwide delivery expertise for
managing data in storage array, host and virtualized IT environments. DMIS will
enhance and complement the Technology Service offerings. Novus CG, a storage
solution company, will provide improved access to business information, enable
stronger regulatory and corporate compliance and improve overall information
technology performance. Serbian Business Systems establishes the company s
maintenance and technical support services business in Serbia.  

Global Business Services completed one acquisition in the fourth
quarter: IT Gruppen AS, which will add to the company s presence in the retail
and media sectors.  

Systems and Technology completed one acquisition in the fourth quarter:
XIV, Ltd., a privately held company focused on storage systems technology.  

Purchase price consideration was paid in cash. These acquisitions are reported
in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash
equivalents.  

The table on page 81 reflects the purchase price related to these
acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31,
2007.  

The acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded
at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items
that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired
companies and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which
qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. Substantially all of the goodwill
is not deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average life of the
identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 5.4 years. With the
exception of goodwill, these identified intangible assets will be amortized
over their useful lives. Goodwill of $999 million was assigned to the Software
($639 million), Global Business Services ($14 million), Global Technology
Services ($76 million) and Systems and Technology ($269 million) segments.  

80  

N/A Not
applicable  

2006   

In
2006, the company completed 13 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $4,817
million, which was paid in cash. The cost of these acquisitions are reported in
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash
equivalents. The tables on pages 82 and 83 represent the purchase price
allocations for all of the 2006 acquisitions. The Micromuse Inc., FileNet
Corporation, Internet Security Systems, Inc. and MRO Software, Inc.
acquisitions are shown separately given their significant purchase prices.  

MICROMUSE, INC.         On February 15,
2006, the company acquired        100 percent of
the outstanding common shares of Micromuse, Inc. for cash consideration of
$862 million. Micromuse is a leading provider of network management software
used by banks, telecommunications carriers, governments, retailers and other
organizations to monitor and manage their sophisticated technology
infrastructures. The software helps customers manage increasingly complex IT
systems that support the proliferation of voice, data and video traffic due to
the growing adoption of voice over IP (VoIP)-based audio and video services
delivered over the Internet. The combination of Micromuse s software and the
company s IT services management technology can provide a comprehensive
approach to help customers reduce the complexity of their IT environments, lower
operational costs and address compliance mandates. Micromuse was integrated
into the Software segment upon acquisition and goodwill, as reflected in the
table on page 82, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. The
overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased,
excluding goodwill, is 4.0 years.  

In the fourth quarter of 2006, as a result of completing the integration
of Micromuse s legal and intercompany structure into the company s legal
structure, the company recorded an increase in current assets and current
liabilities with a corresponding offset in      goodwill totaling $137
million. These increases relate to an increase      in both deferred tax assets
and current tax liabilities. These adjustments are reflected in the table on page 82.  

FILENET CORPORATION         On October 12,
2006, the company      acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common
shares of FileNet      Corporation for cash consideration of $1,609
million. FileNet is a      leading provider of business process and
content management solutions that help companies simplify critical and everyday
decision      making processes and give organizations a competitive advantage.      The FileNet
acquisition enhances the company s ability to meet      increasing client demand for
a combination of content- and process-      centric business process
management capabilities, which is driven by      changing governance and
compliance mandates, as well as the need      to integrate content-centric
business processes with enterprise applications. The company has integrated its
business process management      and service oriented
architecture (SOA) technologies with the      FileNet platform to allow
customers to access content wherever it      may reside and use it in the
context of business processes. FileNet      was integrated into the Software
segment upon acquisition and goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 82,
has been entirely assigned to      the Software segment. The
overall weighted-average useful life of the      intangible assets purchased,
excluding goodwill, is 5.9 years.  

INTERNET SECURITY SYSTEMS, INC.         On October 20, 2006, the      company acquired 100 percent
of the outstanding common shares of      Internet Security Systems, Inc.
(ISS) for cash consideration of $1,368      million. ISS provides
security solutions to thousands of the world s leading companies and
governments, helping to proactively protect      against Internet threats
across networks, desktops and servers. ISS      software, appliances and
services monitor and manage network  

81  

vulnerabilities and rapidly respond
in advance of potential threats. The acquisition advances the company s
strategy to utilize IT services, software and consulting expertise to automate
labor-based processes into standardized, software-based services that can help
clients optimize and transform their businesses. ISS was integrated into the
Global Technology Services segment upon acquisition and goodwill, as reflected
in the table on page 83 has been entirely assigned to the Global
Technology Services segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the
intangible assets purchased, excluding goodwill, is 5.6 years.  

MRO
SOFTWARE INC.         On
October 5, 2006, the company acquired      100
percent of the outstanding common shares of MRO Software, Inc. for cash
consideration of $739 million. MRO s asset and service management software and
consulting services are used by many of the world s top companies to
effectively manage how they buy, maintain and retire assets such as production
equipment, facilities, transportation and information technology hardware and
software in a wide variety of industries including utilities, manufacturing,
energy, pharmaceutical and telecommunications. The acquisition builds upon the
company s strategy to leverage business consulting, IT services, and software
to develop repeatable tools that help clients optimize and transform their
business. MRO was integrated into the      Software,
Global Technology Services and Global Business Services segments upon
acquisition and goodwill, as reflected in the table on page 83, has been
assigned to the Software segment for $337 million, Global Technology Services
segment for $49 million and Global Business Services segment for $122 million.
The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets purchased,
excluding goodwill, is 5.6 years.  

OTHER ACQUISITIONS         The company acquired nine additional   
   companies that are presented
as  Other Acquisitions  in the table on page 83. Three of the acquisitions
were Global Services-related companies: two were integrated into the Global
Technology Services segment: Viacore, Inc. and Palisades Technology
Partners, LLP; the third, Valchemy, Inc., was integrated into the Global
Business Services segment. Six of the acquisitions were software-related
companies that were integrated into the Software segment: Cims Lab; Language
Analysis Systems, (LAS) Inc.; Buildforge; Unicorn Solutions, Inc.; Rembo
Technology; and Webify Solutions. The purchase price allocations resulted in
aggregate goodwill of $211 million, of which $161 million was assigned to the
Software segment and $51 million was assigned to the Global Technology Services
segment. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets
purchased in these acquisitions, excluding goodwill, is 3.4 years.  

* Adjustments primarily
relate to acquisition costs, deferred taxes and other accruals.  

  N/A Not
applicable  

82  

N/A Not
applicable  

DIVESTITURES   

2008   

In the fourth quarter, the company announced the sale of certain
processes, resources, assets and third-party contracts related to its core
logistics operations to Geodis. As part of this transaction, the company will
outsource its logistics operations to Geodis which will enable the company to
leverage industry-leading skills and scale and improve the productivity of the
company s supply chain. The company expects to record a gain when this
transaction closes, which is anticipated to be in the first quarter of 2009.  

2007   

In January 2007, the company announced an agreement with Ricoh
Company Limited (Ricoh), a publicly traded company, to form a joint venture
company based on the Printing System Division (a division of the Systems and
Technology segment).  

The company initially created
a wholly owned subsidiary, InfoPrint Solutions Company, LLC (InfoPrint), by
contributing specific assets and liabilities from its printer business. The
Printing Systems Division generated approximately $1 billion of revenue in
2006. The InfoPrint portfolio includes solutions for production printing for
enterprises and commercial printers as well as solutions for office workgroup
environments and industrial segments. On June 1, 2007 (closing date), the
company divested 51 percent of its interest in InfoPrint to Ricoh. The company
will divest its remaining 49 percent ownership to Ricoh quarterly over the next
three years from the closing date. At December 31, 2008, the company s
ownership in InfoPrint was 24.4 percent.  

The total consideration the
company agreed to on January 24, 2007 (the date the definitive agreement
was signed) was $725 million which was paid in cash to the company on the
closing date. The cash received was consideration for the initial 51 percent
acquisition of InfoPrint by Ricoh as well as a prepayment for the remaining 49
percent to be acquired and certain royalties and services to be provided by the
company to InfoPrint. Final consideration for this transaction will be
determined at the end of the three-year period based upon the participation in
the profits and losses recorded by the equity partners. The company evaluated
its ownership and participation in InfoPrint under the requirements of FIN
46(R). The company concluded that InfoPrint met the requirements of a variable
interest entity, the company is not the primary beneficiary of the entity and
that deconsolidation of the applicable net assets was appropriate. The company s
investment in InfoPrint will be accounted for under the equity method of
accounting.  

The company will provide
maintenance services for one year, certain hardware products for three years
and other information technology and business process services to InfoPrint for
up to five years. The company assessed the fair value of these arrangements,
and, as a result, deferred $274 million of the proceeds. This amount will be
recorded as revenue, primarily in the company s services segments, as services
are provided to InfoPrint.  

The royalty agreements are
related to the use of certain of the company s trademarks for up to 10 years.
The company assessed the fair value of these royalty agreements, and, as a
result, deferred $116 million of the proceeds. This amount will be recognized
as intellectual property and custom development income as it is earned in
subsequent periods.  

Net assets contributed,
transaction related expenses and provisions were $90 million, resulting in an
expected total pre-tax gain of $245 million, of which $81 million was recorded
in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the second
quarter of 2007.  

The deferred pre-tax gain of
$164 million at the closing date was primarily related to: (1) the
transfer of the company s remaining 49 percent interest in InfoPrint to Ricoh,
and, (2) the transfer of certain maintenance services employees to
InfoPrint. The company will recognize this amount over a three-year period as
the remaining ownership interest is divested and the employees are transferred.
The pre-tax gain will be recorded in other (income) and expense in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

83  

Note D.  
Fair Value   

FINANCIAL ASSETS AND FINANCIAL
LIABILITIES MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE ON A RECURRING BASIS   

The
following table presents the company s financial assets and financial liabilities
that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2008
consistent with the fair value hierarchy provisions of SFAS No. 157.  

(1)                  Represents netting of
derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement in
accordance with FASB Interpretation No. 39,  Offsetting of Amounts
Relating to Certain      Contracts,  and credit risk adjustments, if
material.  

(2)                  The gross balances of
derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets,
and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position at December 31, 2008 are $773 million and $1,117 million,
respectively.  

(3)                  The gross balances of derivative
liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other
liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31,
2008 are $1,414 million and $702 million, respectively.  

At
December 31, 2008, the company did not have any assets or liabilities
measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable
inputs (Level 3) in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

ITEMS
MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE ON A NONRECURRING BASIS   

In
the fourth quarter, the company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment of
$81 million for an equity method investment. The resulting investment which is
classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy was valued using a discounted
cash flow model. The valuation      inputs included an estimate
of future cash flows, expectations about possible variations in the amount and
timing of cash flows and a discount rate based on the risk-adjusted cost of
capital. Potential results were assigned probabilities that resulted in a weighted
average or most-likely discounted cash flow fair value as of December 31,
2008. The fair value of the investment after impairment was $7 million at December 31,
2008.  

84  

Note E.  
Financial Instruments (Excluding Derivatives)   

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL
INSTRUMENTS   

Cash
and cash equivalents, debt and marketable equity securities and derivative
financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in the company s
financial statements. Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments
are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts
payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt are financial liabilities
with carrying values that approximate fair value. In the absence of quoted
prices in active markets, considerable judgment is required in developing
estimates of fair value. Estimates are not necessarily indicative of the
amounts the company could realize in a current market transaction. The
following methods and assumptions are used to estimate fair values:  

Loans and
Long-term Receivables   

Estimates
of fair value are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest
rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the
same remaining maturities.  

Long-Term
Debt   

For
publicly-traded debt, estimates of fair value are based on market prices. For
other debt, fair value is estimated based on rates currently available to the
company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. The carrying
amount of long-term debt is $22,689 million and $23,039 million and the
estimated fair value is $23,351 million and $26,544 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  

DEBT AND MARKETABLE EQUITY
SECURITIES   

The
following table summarizes the company s debt and marketable equity securities
all of which are considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value in
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

*                          Included within
cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

**                   Reported as
marketable securities within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

***            Included within investments
and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. See note
I,  Investments and Sundry Assets,  on page 87.  

Gross unrealized gains (before taxes) on debt securities were $1 million
and $7 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Gross
unrealized gains (before taxes) on marketable equity securities were $31
million and $545 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Gross unrealized losses (before taxes) on debt securities were immaterial to
the Consolidated Financial Statements at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Gross
unrealized losses (before taxes) on marketable equity securities were $27
million and $18 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Based
on an evaluation of available evidence as of December 31, 2008, the
company believes that unrealized losses on marketable equity securities are
temporary and do not represent a need for an other-than-temporary impairment.
See note N,  Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on page 96 for net change in
unrealized gains and losses on debt and marketable equity securities.  

85  

Proceeds from sales of debt securities and marketable equity securities
were approximately $787 million and $286 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. The gross realized gains and losses (before taxes) on these
sales totaled $182 million and $13 million, respectively in 2008. The gross
realized gains and losses (before taxes) on these sales totaled $85   million and $3
million, respectively, in 2007.  

The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt
securities are due in less than one year at December 31, 2008.  

Note F.  
Inventories   

Note G.  
Financing Receivables   

Net
investment in sales-type and direct financing leases is for leases that relate
principally to the company s equipment and are for terms ranging from two to
seven years. Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases includes
unguaranteed residual values of $916 million and $915 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $1,049
million and $1,016   million and of allowance for uncollectible accounts
receivable of $217 million and $127 million at those dates, respectively.
Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31,
2008, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2009, 45
percent; 2010, 30 percent; 2011, 17 percent; 2012, 6 percent; and 2013 and
beyond, 2 percent.  

Commercial financing receivables relate primarily to inventory and
accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM
products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing
generally range from 30 to 90 days.  

Client loan receivables are loans that are provided by Global Financing
primarily to the company s clients to finance the purchase of the company s
software and services. Separate contractual relationships on these financing
arrangements are for terms ranging from two to seven years. Each financing
contract is priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a
history of enforcing the terms of these separate financing agreements.  

The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral
for non-recourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for
borrowings were $373 million and $258 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. These borrowings are included in note K,  Borrowings,  on pages 88
to 90.  

The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31,
2008 and 2007.  

Note H.  
Plant, Rental Machines and Other Property   

86  

Note I.

Investments
and Sundry Assets   

*                          Reclassified to
conform with 2008 presentation of deferred taxes, previously combined in
investments and sundry assets.  

**                   Deferred transition and setup costs and other
deferred arrangements are related to Global Services client arrangements. Also
see note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 68 and 69 for
additional information.  

+                          See note L,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 90 to 94 for the fair value of all
derivatives reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

Note J.    

   Intangible
Assets Including Goodwill   

INTANGIBLE ASSETS   

The
following table details the company s intangible asset balances by major asset
class.  

*                          Other
intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business
processes, methodologies and systems, and impacts from currency translation.  

*                          Other
intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business
processes, methodologies and systems, and impacts from currency translation.  

The company amortizes intangible assets over their estimated useful
lives unless such lives are deemed indefinite. Amortizable intangible assets
are tested for impairment based on undiscounted cash flows, and, if impaired,
written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised
values. Intangible assets with indefinite lives are tested annually for
impairment and written down to fair value as required. No impairment of
intangible assets has been recorded during any of the periods presented.  

The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased by $771 million
for the year ended December 31, 2008, primarily due to acquisitions of
intangibles offset by amortization.  

Total amortization was $1,310 million and $1,163 million for the years
ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The aggregate amortization
expense for acquired intangibles (excluding capitalized software) was $520
million and $367 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. In addition, in 2008 the company retired $1,053 million of fully
amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and
accumulated amortization for this amount.  

The future amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years
related to all intangible assets that are currently recorded in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be as follows at December 31,
2008:  

87  

GOODWILL   

The
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, by reportable segment, for the year
ended December 31, 2008, are presented in the table below. There was no
impairment of goodwill recorded in 2008.  

Note K.  
Borrowings   

SHORT-TERM DEBT   

The
weighted-average interest rates for commercial paper at December 31, 2008
and 2007, were 3.1 percent and 4.4 percent, respectively. The weighted-average
interest rates for short-term loans were 4.5 percent and 4.8 percent at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively.  

88  

LONG-TERM DEBT   

Pre-Swap
Borrowing   

*  

$8.1 billion in debt securities issued by IBM International Group
  Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of
  the company, is included in 2009-2011 ($6.5 billion), 2012-2013 ($1.5
  billion) and 2014-2018 ($0.1 billion). Debt securities issued by IBM
  International Group Capital LLC are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by
  the company.  

**  

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS No. 133, the portion
  of the company s fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is reflected in
  the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as an amount equal to the
  sum of the debt s carrying value plus an SFAS No. 133 fair value
  adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt
  obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates.  

POST-SWAP BORROWING     (    LONG-TERM
DEBT, INCLUDING CURRENT PORTION    )   

89  

Pre-swap
annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
2008, are as follows:  

INTEREST
ON DEBT   

Refer
to the related discussion on page 118 in note V,  Segment Information, 
for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note L,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 90 to 94 for a discussion of the use
of currency and interest rate swaps in the company s debt risk management
program.  

LINES OF CREDIT   

The
company maintains a five-year, $10 billion Credit Agreement (the  Credit
Agreement ), which expires on June 28, 2012. The total expense recorded by
the company related to this facility was $6.2 million in 2008, $6.2 million in
2007 and $7.4 million in 2006. The amended Credit Agreement permits the company
and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10 billion on a revolving basis.
Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the
company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing lenders,
or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement,
increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $2.0
billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and
Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit
Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement. Interest rates on borrowings
under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates,
as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains
customary representations   and warranties, covenants, events of default,
and indemnification   provisions. The company believes that circumstances
that might give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as
specified in the Credit Agreement are remote. The company s other lines of
credit, most of which are uncommitted, totaled approximately $11,031 million
and $9,992 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Interest
rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from
country to country, depending on local market conditions.  

Note L.  
Derivatives and Hedging Transactions   

The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a
significant borrower and lender in the global markets. In the normal course of
business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and
foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity price changes and
client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established
risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and,
where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are
denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to align rate
movements between the interest rates associated with the company s lease and
other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing
debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign
currency exposures, derivatives are used to limit the effects of foreign
exchange rate fluctuations on financial results.  

As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed
to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their
contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company
has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major
financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other factors, and
maintains strict dollar limits that correspond to each institution s credit
rating. The company s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit
risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for
credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of
counterparties. Master agreements with counterparties include master netting
arrangements as further mitigation of credit exposure to  

90  

counterparties.
These arrangements permit the company to net amounts due from the company to a
counterparty with amounts due to the company from a counterparty reducing the
maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.  

The company employs derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in
stockholders  equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of
significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S.
dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges in accordance
with SFAS No. 133, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives
have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by the
translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors the cash loss
potential on an ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging
relationships by de-designating the derivative instrument to manage this
liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may
utilize derivatives to offset the changes in fair value of the de-designated
instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity. The company
expended $546 million and $258 million related to maturities of derivative
instruments that existed in qualifying net investment hedge relationships in
2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, the company had net
liabilities of $244 million, representing the fair value of derivative
instruments in qualifying net investment hedge relationships. Of this amount,
$50 million is expected to mature in fiscal 2009. In addition, at December 31,
2008, the company had net liabilities of $458 million, representing the fair
value of derivative instruments that were designated in qualifying net
investment hedging relationships as of December 31, 2007, but were
subsequently de-designated in fiscal 2008. This amount will fully mature in
fiscal 2009. At December 31, 2008 the weighted-average remaining maturity
of all derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was
approximately 2.4 years as compared to  1.5 years at December 31, 2007. 

In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures
contracts, interest-rate swaps and currency swaps, depending upon the
underlying exposure.  

A
brief description of the major hedging programs follows.  

DEBT RISK MANAGEMENT   

The
company issues debt in the global capital markets, principally to fund its
financing lease and loan portfolio. Access to cost-effective financing can
result in interest rate and/or currency mismatches with the underlying assets.
To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company
uses interest-rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt into variable-rate
(or  floating-rate ) debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific
variable-rate debt into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges).  

The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency
denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps
to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt
denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are
accounted for as cash flow hedges.  

The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on forecasted debt
issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward starting
interest-rate swaps to lock in a portion of the rate on the interest payments
related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash
flow hedges.  

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the weighted-average remaining
maturity of all swaps in the debt risk management program was approximately
five years.  

LONG-TERM
INVESTMENTS IN FOREIGN SUBSIDIARIES    (  NET
INVESTMENT  )  

A
significant portion of the company s foreign currency denominated debt
portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment which reduces the
volatility in stockholders  equity caused by changes in foreign currency
exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with
respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency interest rate
swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose.
The currency effects of these hedges (approximately $243 million losses in
2008, $880 million losses in 2007 and $350 million losses in 2006, net of tax)
were reflected in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained
earnings within the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity, thereby
offsetting a portion of the translation adjustment of the applicable foreign
subsidiaries  net assets.  

ANTICIPATED ROYALTIES AND COST
TRANSACTIONS   

The
company s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party
vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services
among the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In
anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility
of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange
forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forwards are accounted for
as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company is
hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately
four years. At December 31, 2008, the weighted-average remaining maturity
of these derivative instruments was approximately 446 days as compared to 281
days at December 31, 2007.  

91  

SUBSIDIARY
CASH AND FOREIGN CURRENCY ASSET   /  LIABILITY
MANAGEMENT  

The
company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its
subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash
flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign
exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign
currency exposure of a portion of the company s nonfunctional currency assets
and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally
less than six months. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of
the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in
other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT   

The
company is exposed to equity price changes related to certain obligations to
employees. These equity exposures are primarily related to market price
movements in certain broad equity market indices and in the company s common
stock. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations
are recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes equity
derivatives, including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the
exposures related to certain employee compensation obligations. The derivatives
are linked to the total return on certain broad equity market indices or the
total return on the company s common stock. They are recorded at fair value
with gains or losses also reported in SG A expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings.  

OTHER DERIVATIVES   

The
company holds warrants in connection with certain investments that are deemed
derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions.
The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in other
(income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay
amounts due under contractual terms (credit risk). The company utilizes credit
default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. The swaps are
recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company had no credit
default swaps outstanding at December 31, 2008.  

To economically hedge its foreign exchange exposure not covered by any
of the previously discussed programs, the company also uses certain forward
contracts that are not designated as accounting hedges. These derivatives are
recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and
expense in the Con solidated Statement of Earnings.  

The tables on page 93 summarize the net fair value of the
derivative instruments and the carrying value of foreign currency denominated
debt designated as a hedge of net investment at December 31, 2008 and 2007
(included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position).  

92  

(a)  

Comprises
  assets of $858 million and liabilities of $10 million.  

(b)  

Comprises
  assets of $593 million and liabilities of $978 million.  

(c)  

Comprises
  assets of $109 million and liabilities of $353 million.  

(d)  

Comprises
  assets of $330 million and liabilities of $775 million.  

(e)  

Represents
  foreign currency denominated debt formally designated as a hedge of net
  investment.  

(a)  

Comprises
  assets of $181 million and liabilities of $14 million.  

(b)  

Comprises
  assets of $526 million and liabilities of $438 million.  

(c)  

Comprises
  liabilities of $937 million.  

(d)  

Comprises
  assets of $90 million and liabilities of $60 million.  

(e)  

Represents
  foreign currency denominated debt formally designated as a hedge of net
  investment.  

93  

ACCUMULATED DERIVATIVE GAINS OR
LOSSES   

At
December 31, 2008, in connection with its cash flow hedges of anticipated
royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net gains of $88 million,
net of tax, in accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings.
Of this amount, $235 million of gains are expected to be reclassified to net
income within the next year, providing an offsetting economic impact against
the underlying anticipated transactions. At December 31, 2008, net losses
of approximately $14 million, net of tax, were recorded in accumulated gains
and (losses) not affecting retained earnings in connection with cash flow
hedges of the company s borrowings. Of this amount, $10 million of gains are
expected to be reclassified to net income within the next year, providing an
offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions.  

The following table summarizes activity in the accumulated gains and
(losses) not affecting retained earnings section of the Consolidated Statement
of Stockholders  Equity related to all derivatives classified as cash flow hedges.  

For
the years ending December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, there were no
significant gains or losses recognized in earnings representing hedge
ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for
fair value hedges and cash flow hedges), or associated with an underlying
exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor
are there any anticipated in the normal course of business.  

Note M.    

   Other
Liabilities   

In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes
workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost competitiveness and
to rebalance skills. The noncurrent contractually obligated future payments
associated with these activities are reflected in the workforce reductions
caption in the previous table.  

In addition, the company executed certain special actions as follows: (1) the
second quarter of 2005 associated with Global Services segments, primarily in
Europe, (2) the second quarter of 2002 associated with the
Microelectronics Division and rebalancing of both the company s workforce and
leased space resources, (3) the fourth quarter of 2002 associated with the
acquisition of the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting business, (4) the
2002 actions associated with the HDD business for reductions in workforce,
manufacturing capacity and space, (5) the actions taken in 1999, and (6) the
actions that were executed prior to 1994.  

The table on page 95 provides a roll forward of the current and
noncurrent liabilities associated with these special actions. The current
liabilities presented in the table are included in other accrued expenses and
liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

94  

* The other adjustments
column in the table above principally includes the reclassification of
noncurrent to current, foreign currency translation adjustments and interest
accretion.  

The
workforce accruals primarily relate to terminated employees who are no longer
working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their
incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual country s legal
requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee
begins receiving pension benefits or dies. Included in the December 31,
2008 workforce accruals above is $38 million associated with the HDD
divestiture discussed in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 66.
The space accruals are for ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space
that could not be sublet or space that was sublet at rates lower than the
committed lease arrangement. The length of these obligations varies by lease
with the longest extending through 2020. Other accruals are primarily the
remaining liabilities (other than workforce or space) associated with the HDD
divestiture.  

The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs
that primarily are preventive in nature. The company also participates in
environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including
operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The
company s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be
estimated and no amounts have been recorded for non-ARO environmental
liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The total amounts accrued for
non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts classified as current in
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or
anticipated insurance recoveries, were $267 million and $261 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to
materially affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results
of the company s operations in future periods. However, estimates of future
costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing
environmental remediation regulations.  

Note N.   

   Stockholders 
Equity Activity   

The
authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common
stock with a $.20 per share par value, of which 1,339,095,922 shares were
outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock
with a $.01 per share par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31,
2008.  

STOCK REPURCHASES   

The Board of Directors
authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased
89,890,347 common shares at a cost of $10,563 million, 178,385,436 common
shares at a cost of $18,783 million and 97,564,462 common shares at a cost of
$8,022 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

Included
in the 2007 repurchases highlighted above, in May 2007, IBM International
Group (IIG), a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of the company, repurchased
118.8 million shares of common stock for $12.5 billion under accelerated share
repurchase (ASR) agreements with three banks.  

Pursuant
to the ASR agreements, executed on May 25, 2007, IIG paid an initial
purchase price of $105.18 per share for the repurchase. The initial purchase
price was subject to adjustment based on the volume weighted-average price of
IBM common stock over a settlement period of three months for each of the
banks. The adjustment also reflected certain other amounts including the banks 
carrying costs, compensation for ordinary dividends declared by the company
during the settlement period and interest benefits for receiving the $12.5
billion payment in advance of the anticipated purchases by each bank of shares
in the open market during the respective settlement periods. The adjustment
amount could be settled in cash, registered shares or unregistered shares at
IIG s option. Under the ASR agreements, IIG had a separate settlement with
each of the three banks. The first settlement occurred on September 6,
2007, resulting in a settlement payment to the bank of $151.8 million. The  

95  

second
settlement occurred on December 5, 2007, resulting in a settlement payment
to the bank of $253.1 million. The third settlement occurred on March 4,
2008, resulting in a settlement payment to the company of $54.2 million. The
adjusted average price paid per share during the ASR was $108.13, resulting in
a total purchase price of $12,581 million. The $351 million difference was
settled in cash. The settlement amounts were paid in cash at the election of
IIG in accordance with the provisions of the ASR agreements and were recorded
as adjustments to stockholders  equity in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position on the settlement dates.  

The company issued 5,882,800 treasury shares in 2008, 9,282,055 treasury
shares in 2007 and 3,489,803 treasury shares in 2006, as a result of exercises
of stock options by employees of certain recently acquired businesses and by
non-U.S. employees. At December 31, 2008, $5,647 million of Board
authorized common stock repurchases was still available. The company plans to
purchase shares on the open market or in private transactions from time to
time, depending on market conditions. In connection with the issuance of stock
as part of the company s stock-based compensation plans, 1,505,107 common
shares at a cost of $166 million, 1,282,131 common shares at a cost of $134
million and 633,769 common shares at a cost of $52 million in 2008, 2007 and
2006, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to
satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. These amounts are
included in the treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity.  

ACCUMULATED
GAINS AND    (  LOSSES  )   NOT AFFECTING RETAINED EARNINGS   (  NET
OF TAX  )  

* Foreign currency
translation adjustments are presented gross with associated hedges shown net of
tax.  

NET CHANGE IN UNREALIZED    (  LOSSES  )  /  GAINS ON MARKETABLE SECURITIES   (  NET
OF TAX  )  

96  

Note O. 
Contingencies and Commitments   

CONTINGENCIES   

The company is involved in a
variety of claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings
that arise from time to time in    the ordinary course of its business, including actions with respect to contracts, intellectual property (IP),
product liability, employment, benefits,
securities, foreign operations and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of
different parties, including
competitors, partners, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies,
stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does
business. 

The
following is a summary of some of the more significant legal matters involving
the company.  

The
company is a defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court
in Salt Lake City, Utah by The SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the
case to Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to
some of AT T s Unix IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair
competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to
the company s distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux.
The company has asserted counterclaims, including breach of contract, violation
of the Lanham Act, unfair competition, intentional torts, unfair and deceptive
trade practices, breach of the General Public License that governs open source
distributions, promissory estoppel and copyright infringement. In October 2005,
the company withdrew its patent counterclaims in an effort to simplify and
focus the issues in the case and to expedite their resolution. Motions for
summary judgment were heard in March 2007, and the court has not yet
issued its decision. On August 10, 2007, the court in another suit, The
SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., issued a decision and order
determining, among other things, that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare
copyrights, and obligating SCO to recognize Novell s waiver of SCO s claims
against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. At the request
of the court in SCO v. IBM, on August 31, 2007, each of the parties filed
a status report with the court concerning the effect of the August 10th
Novell ruling on the SCO v. IBM case, including the pending motions. On September 14,
2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this
case were stayed. In the SCO v. Novell case, on November 25, 2008, SCO
filed its notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit,
which included an appeal of the August 10, 2007 ruling.  

On
November 29, 2006, the company filed a lawsuit against Platform Solutions, Inc.
(PSI) in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York, alleging that PSI violated certain intellectual property rights of IBM.
PSI asserted counterclaims against IBM. On January 11, 2008, the court
permitted T3 Technologies, a reseller of PSI computer systems, to intervene as
a counterclaim-plaintiff. T3 claims that IBM violated certain antitrust laws by
refusing to license its patents and trade secrets to PSI and by tying the sales
of its mainframe computers to its mainframe operating systems. On June 30,
2008, IBM acquired PSI. As a result of this transaction, IBM and PSI dismissed
all claims against each other, and PSI withdrew a complaint it had filed with
the European Commission in October 2007 with regard to IBM. Litigation
between the company and T3 continues. In January 2009, T3 filed a
complaint with the European Commission alleging that IBM violated European Commission
competition law based on the facts alleged in the pending U.S. litigation.  

The
company is a defendant in an action filed on March 16, 2007 in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas by SuperSpeed LLC,
which alleges that certain IBM products infringe five patents relating
generally to cache coherency techniques. SuperSpeed seeks damages and
injunctive relief. The case is set for trial in June 2009.  

The
company and certain of its subsidiaries are defendants in an action filed on August 17,
2007 in the United District Court for the Eastern District of Texas by
JuxtaComm Technologies, Inc., which alleges that certain IBM products
infringe a patent relating to the transformation and exchange of data between
different computer systems. JuxtaComm seeks damages and injunctive relief. The
case is set for trial in November 2009.  

In
October 2003, a purported collective action lawsuit was filed against IBM
in the United States District Court for the Northern District of California by
10 former IBM employees alleging, on behalf of themselves and allegedly
similarly situated former employees, that the company engaged in a pattern and
practice of discriminating against employees on the basis of age when it
terminated employees, both in connection with reductions in force and
individualized determinations (Syverson v. IBM). Initially, the District Court
dismissed the lawsuit on the basis of release agreements signed by all the
plaintiffs. On appeal, the Ninth Circuit reversed the trial court s finding
that the release barred these claims, and in January 2007, after denial of
IBM s petition for rehearing, the matter was returned to the trial court for
further proceedings. On October 3, 2007, the court dismissed with
prejudice plaintiffs  claim for relief under the Older Workers Benefit
Protection Act, and dismissed with leave to amend plaintiffs  claim asserting
disparate impact age discrimination with respect to individualized terminations.
On November 6, 2007, plaintiffs filed a Third Amended Complaint, amending
the disparate impact claim. IBM filed its answer on November 26, 2007. On January 29,
2009, the case was dismissed with prejudice.  

In
January 2004, the Seoul District Prosecutors Office in South Korea
announced it had brought criminal bid-rigging charges against several
companies, including IBM Korea and LG IBM (a joint venture between IBM Korea
and LG Electronics, which has since been dissolved, effective January, 2005)
and had also charged employees of some of those entities with, among other
things, bribery of certain  

97  

officials
of government-controlled entities in Korea and bid rigging. IBM Korea and LG
IBM cooperated fully with authorities in these matters. A number of
individuals, including former IBM Korea and LG IBM employees, were subsequently
found guilty and sentenced. IBM Korea and LG IBM were also required to pay
fines. Debarment orders were imposed at different times, covering a period of
no more than a year from the date of issuance, which barred IBM Korea from
doing business directly with certain government-controlled entities in Korea.
All debarment orders have since expired and when they were in force did not
prohibit IBM Korea from selling products and services to business partners who
sold to government-controlled entities in Korea. In addition, the U.S.
Department of Justice and the SEC have both contacted the company in connection
with this matter. In March 2008, the company received a request from the
SEC for additional information.  

On March 27, 2008, the company was temporarily suspended from
participating in new business with U.S. Federal government agencies. The notice
of temporary suspension was issued by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
and related to an investigation by the EPA of possible violations of the
Procurement Integrity provisions of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy
Act regarding a specific bid for business with the EPA originally submitted in March 2006.
In addition, the U.S. Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of Virginia
served the company and certain employees with grand jury subpoenas related to
the bid, requesting testimony and documents regarding interactions between
employees of the EPA and certain company employees. On April 4, 2008, the
company announced an agreement with the EPA that terminated the temporary
suspension order. In January 2009, the U.S. Attorney s Office for the
Eastern District of Virginia confirmed that it was closing its investigation
and would bring no charges in this matter. The company is continuing to
cooperate with the EPA.  

The company is a defendant in a civil lawsuit brought in Tokyo District
Court by Tokyo Leasing Co., Ltd., which seeks to recover losses that it
allegedly suffered after IXI Co., Ltd. initiated civil rehabilitation
(bankruptcy) proceedings in Japan and apparently failed to pay Tokyo Leasing
amounts for which Tokyo Leasing now seeks to hold IBM and others liable. The claims
in this suit include tort and breach of contract.  

The company is a defendant in numerous actions filed after January 1,
2008 in the Supreme Court for the State of New York, county of Broome, on
behalf of hundreds of plaintiffs. The complaints allege numerous and different
causes of action, including for negligence and recklessness, private nuisance
and trespass. Plaintiffs in these cases seek medical monitoring and claim
damages in unspecified amounts for a variety of personal injuries and property damages
alleg edly arising out of
the presence of groundwater contamination and vapor intrusion of groundwater
contaminants into certain structures in which plaintiffs reside or resided, or
conducted business, allegedly resulting from the release of chemicals into the
environment by the company at its former manufacturing and development facility
in Endicott. These complaints also seek punitive damages in an unspecified
amount. 

The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought
by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as  Superfund, 
or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible
parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or
ownership of sites. The company is also conducting environmental
investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several
current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative
orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and
is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former
operating sites.  

The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental
assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies
doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with
Brazilian authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax
litigation matters. These matters principally relate to claims for taxes on the
importation of computer software. The total amounts related to these matters
are approximately $2.0 billion, including amounts currently in litigation and
other amounts. In November 2008, the company won a significant case in the
Superior Chamber of the federal administrative tax court in Brazil and is
awaiting the published decision of the case. Assuming this decision is upheld,
the remaining total potential amount related to these matters for all
applicable years is approximately $500 million. In addition, the company has
received an income tax assessment from Mexican authorities relating to the
deductibility of certain warranty payments. In response, the company has filed
an appeal in the Mexican Federal Fiscal court. The total potential amount
related to this matter for all applicable years is approximately $450 million.
The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that these amounts
are not meaningful indicators of liability.  

In accordance with SFAS No. 5,  Accounting for Contingencies, 
(SFAS No. 5), the company records a provision with respect to a claim,
suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been
incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Provisions
related to income tax matters are recorded in accordance with FIN 48. Claims
and proceedings are reviewed at  

98  

least
quarterly and provisions are taken or adjusted to reflect the impact and status
of settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information pertinent to a
particular matter. Any recorded liabilities including any changes to such
liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2008, were not material to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Based on its experience, the company
believes that the damage amounts claimed in the matters previously referred to
are not a meaningful indicator of the potential liability. Claims, suits,
investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain and it is not possible
to predict the ultimate outcome of the matters previously discussed. While the
company will continue to defend itself vigorously in all such matters, it is possible
that the company s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash
flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or
more of these matters.  

Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any such
claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material
effect on the company s business, financial condition, results of operations or
cash flows will depend on a number of variables, including the timing and
amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies;
the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have on
the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances
of the particular matter which may give rise to additional factors.  

COMMITMENTS   

The
company s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused
amounts of $4,403 million and $3,702 million at December 31, 2008 and
2007, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company s
business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the
company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection
with client purchase agreements for approximately $3,342 million and $3,654
million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The change over the
prior year is due to increased signings of long-term IT infrastructure
arrangements in which financing is committed by the company to fund a client s
future purchases from the company.  

The company has applied the provisions of FIN 45,  Guarantor s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Guarantees of
Indebtedness of Others,  to its agreements that contain guarantee or
indemnification clauses. These provisions expand those required by SFAS No. 5,
by requiring a guarantor to recognize and disclose certain types of guarantees,
even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor s performance is remote. The
following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.  

The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it
may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters.
Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by
the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party
harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants
related to such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified
environmental matters, third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual
obligations and certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment
by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the
procedures specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically
allow the company to challenge the other party s claims. Further, the company s
obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or
amount, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third
parties for certain payments made by the company.  

It is not possible to predict
the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar
agreements due to the conditional nature of the company s obligations and the
unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement.
Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had
a material effect on the company s business, financial condition or results of
operations.  

In addition, the company
guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential
future payment under these financial guarantees was $50 million and $23 million
at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The fair value of the
guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is
not material.  

Note P.   

   Taxes   

The
continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as
follows:  

99  

The components of the
continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as
follows:  

A reconciliation of the
statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the company s continuing operations
effective tax rate is as follows:  

During
the second quarter of 2008, the company reached agreement with the Internal
Revenue Service (IRS) regarding claims for certain tax incentives. The
resolution of this matter resulted in a net tax benefit of $281 million. Also,
during the second quarter, the company completed its analysis with respect to
certain issues associated with newly published U.S. tax regulations. The review
resulted in a tax benefit of $200 million. The above benefits were
predominately offset by the second-quarter 2008 tax cost associated with the
intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property during the quarter.  

During
the fourth quarter of 2008, the IRS concluded its examination of the company s
income tax returns for 2004 and 2005 and issued  100  a final Revenue Agent s Report (RAR). The
company has agreed with all of
the adjustments contained in the RAR, with the exception of a proposed
adjustment, with a pre-tax amount in excess of $2 billion, relating to
valuation matters associated with the intercompany transfer of certain
intellectual property in 2005 and computational issues related to certain tax
credits. The company disagrees with the IRS on these specific matters and
intends to contest the proposed adjustments through the IRS appeals process and
the courts, if necessary. The company has redetermined its unrecognized tax
benefits, including all similar items during open tax years, based on the
agreed and disputed adjustments contained in the RAR and associated information
and analysis. As a result, the company has recorded a net increase in tax
reserves and an associated charge to the provision for income taxes of $85 million. 

In addition,
in 2008, the company s effective tax rate also benefited from a net increase in
the utilization of foreign tax credits.  

The significant components of
deferred tax assets and liabilities that are recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position were as follows:  

DEFERRED
TAX ASSETS   

*
Reclassified to conform with 2008 presentation.  

DEFERRED
TAX LIABILITIES   

* Reclassified to conform with 2008
presentation.  

100  

For income tax return purposes, the company has foreign and domestic
loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $989 million as well as state
tax credit carryforwards of $515 million. Substantially all of these
carryforwards are available for at least two years or are available for ten
years or more.  

The company has certain
foreign tax loss carryforwards that have not been reflected in the gross
deferred tax asset balance. These losses, the potential tax benefit of which is
approximately $1.3 billion, have not been recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position as the company has not determined if it will
claim these losses. The company is currently evaluating whether to claim these
losses and expects to make a decision within the next six months.  

The valuation allowance at December 31,
2008, principally applies to certain foreign, state and local loss
carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to
expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these
carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation
allowance will reduce income tax expense. The year-to-year change in the
allowance balance was a decrease of $52 million.  

The
amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2008 determined in
accordance with the provisions of FIN 48 increased by $804 million in 2008 to
$3,898 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  

The additions to the unrecognized tax benefits related to the current
and prior years are primarily attributable to various transfer pricing and
related valuation matters, certain tax incentives and credits, acquisition
related matters and other non-U.S. and state matters.  

The settlements and
reductions to the unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions of prior years
are primarily attributable to the conclusion of the company s various U.S. and
non-U.S. income tax examinations, the agreement reached with the IRS regarding
claims for certain tax incentives, the company s analysis with respect to
certain issues associated with newly published U.S. tax regulations and various
non-U.S. matters including impacts due to lapses in statutes of limitation.  

The liability at December 31,
2008 of $3,898 million can be reduced by $532 million of offsetting tax
benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing
adjustments, state income taxes and timing adjustments. The net amount of
$3,366 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company s effective
tax rate.  

Interest
and penalties related to income tax liabilities are included in income tax
expense. During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company recognized
$96 million in interest and penalties; in 2007, the company recognized $85
million in interest and penalties. The company has $286 million for the payment
of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2008 and had $195
million accrued at December 31, 2007.  

It
is not anticipated that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits reflected as of
December 31, 2008 will materially change in the next 12 months; any
changes are not expected to have a significant impact on the results of
operations, cash flows or the financial position of the company.  

With
limited exception, the company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and
local or non-U.S. income tax audits by taxing authorities for years through
2002. The years subsequent to 2002 contain matters that could be subject to
differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates
to the amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the
outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate
amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected
to result for these years.  

It
is expected that the audit of the company s 2006 and 2007 U.S. income tax
returns will commence in the first quarter of 2009.  

The
company has not provided deferred taxes on $21.9 billion of undistributed
earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries at December  31, 2008, as it is the
company s policy to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S.
operations.  However, the company
periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that it does
not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the deferred tax
liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested earnings is not
practicable.  

For
additional information on the company s effective tax rate refer to the  Looking
Forward  section of the Management Discussion on page 45.  

Note Q.   

   Research,
Development and Engineering   

RD E
expense was $6,337 million in 2008, $6,153 million in 2007 and $6,107 million
in 2006.  

The
company incurred expense of $6,015 million in 2008, $5,754 million in 2007 and
$5,682 million in 2006 for scientific research and the application of
scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their
uses, as well as services and their application. Within these amounts,
software-related expense was $3,359 million, $3,037 million and $2,842 million
in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In addition, included in the expense was
a charge of $24 million in 2008 and $7 million in 2006 for acquired IPR D.  

Expense
for product-related engineering was $322 million, $399 million and $425 million
in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.  

101  

Note R. 
Earnings Per Share of Common Stock   

The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share of common stock.  

Weighted-average stock
options to purchase 42,981,463 common shares in 2008, 62,782,516 common shares
in 2007 and 157,942,283 common shares in 2006 were outstanding, but were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise
price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common
shares for the full year, and therefore, the effect would have been
antidilutive.  

102  

Note S.   

   Rental
Expense and Lease Commitments   

Rental
expense from continuing operations, including amounts charged to inventories
and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,681 million
in 2008, $1,559 million in 2007 and $1,446 million in 2006. Rental expense in
agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a
straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the
determination of rental expense as accruable. Rental expense in prior periods
is presented to conform with 2008 presentation, inclusive of rental expenses
associated with automobile leases within certain countries. The table below
depicts gross minimum rental commitments from continuing operations under
noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with
infrastructure reductions and restructuring actions taken prior to 1994, and in
1999, 2002 and 2005 (previously reserved), sublease income commitments and
capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect activities primarily related
to office space, as well as manufacturing facilities.  

Note T.   

   Stock-Based
Compensation   

Stock-based
compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the
award, and is recognized over the employee requisite service period. See note
A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 72 for additional
information.  

The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost
included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

*                    Reflects the one-time effects of the
divestiture of the Printing Systems business in the second quarter of 2007. 

Total
unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at December 31,
2008 and 2007 was $1,076 million and $1,101 million, respectively, and is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately three
years.  

There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006.  

INCENTIVE AWARDS   

Stock-based incentive awards are
provided to employees under the  terms of the company s
long-term performance plans (the  Plans ). The Plans are administered
by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of
the Board of Directors (the  Committee ). Awards available under the Plans
principally include at-the-money stock options, restricted stock
units, performance share units, premium-priced stock options or any combination
thereof. The nonmanagement members of the IBM Board of
Directors also received stock options under a director stock
option plan through December 31, 2006. The director stock
option plan was terminated effective January 1, 2007. 

The
amount of shares originally authorized to be issued under the  company s
existing Plans was 274.1 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007.
In addition, certain incentive awards granted under previous plans,
if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under the
company s existing Plans. As such, 47.6 million and 46.7 million additional
awards were considered authorized to be issued under the
company s existing Plans as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
There were 23.8 million and 34.8 million option awards outstanding
(which were included in the total options outstanding at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively) under previous plans that, if
and when canceled, would increase the number of authorized shares.
There were 130.1 million and 131.4 million unused shares available
to be granted under the Plans as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. 

Under
the company s long-standing practices and policies, all  awards
are approved prior to or on the date of grant. The exercise price
of at-the-money stock options is the average of the high and 

103  

low
market price on the date of grant. The options approval process specifies the
individual receiving the grant, the number of options or the value of the
award, the exercise price or formula for determining the exercise price and the
date of grant. All awards for senior management are approved by the Committee.
All awards for employees other than senior management are approved by senior
management pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the
Committee, and the grants made pursuant to these delegations are reviewed
periodically with the Committee. Awards that are given as part of annual total
compensation for senior management and other employees are made on specific
cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect to awards given in connection
with promotions or new hires, the company s policy requires approval of such
awards prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or
the date of hire. The exercise price of these options is the average of the
high and low market price on the date of grant.  

Stock
Options   

Stock
options are awards which allow the employee to purchase shares of the company s
stock at a fixed price. Stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to
or greater than the company stock price on the date of grant. These awards,
which generally vest 25 percent per year, are fully vested four years from the
date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years. The company also had a
stock-based program under the Plans for its senior executives, designed to
drive improved performance and increase the ownership executives have in the
company. These executives had the opportunity to receive at-the-money stock
options by agreeing to defer a certain percentage of their annual incentive
compensation into IBM equity, where it is held for three years or until
retirement. In 2005, this program was expanded to cover all executives of the
company. Options under this program become fully vested three years from the
date of grant and have a contractual term of ten years. The plan  element permitting executives to defer annual
incentive compensation into IBM equity and receive at-the-money stock options
was terminated at December 31, 2006. 

The company estimates the fair value of stock options using the
Black-Scholes valuation model, consistent with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R),
 Share-Based Payment  (SFAS No. 123(R)) and SAB No. 107. Key inputs
and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the
grant price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the company s
stock, the risk-free rate and the company s dividend yield. Estimates of fair
value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately
realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not
indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made
by the company.  

The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated at the date of
grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model. The following table presents
the weighted-average assumptions used in the valuation and the resulting
weighted-average fair value per option granted.  

+   During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company did not
grant stock options.  

  *               The option term is the number of years that
the company estimates, based upon history, that options will be outstanding
prior to exercise or forfeiture. 

  **        The
company s estimates of expected volatility are principally based on daily price
changes of the company s stock over the expected option term, as well as the
additional requirements included
in the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) and the guidance provided by SAB
No. 107. 

The following table
summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006.  

104  

During
the year ended December 31, 2007, the company did not grant any stock
options with exercise prices greater than the stock price at the date of grant.
During the year ended December 31, 2006, the company granted approximately
0.5 million stock options with exercise prices greater than the stock price at
the date of grant with weighted-average exercise prices of $91, which are
included in the table on the bottom of page 104.  

The
shares under option at December 31, 2008 were in the following exercise
price ranges:  

In
connection with various acquisition transactions, there were an additional 2.0
million options outstanding at December 31, 2008, as a result of the
company s assumption of options granted by the acquired entities. The
weighted-average exercise price of these options was $56 per share.  

Exercises of
Employee Stock Options   

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006 was $1,073 million, $1,414 million and $727 million,
respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee
stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006 was approximately $3,320 million, $3,619 million and $1,149 million,
respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by
the company for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $356
million, $481 million and $242 million, respectively.  

The company settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly
issued common shares and, occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury
shares held at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were approximately 758 million
and 672 million shares, respectively.  

Stock Awards   

In
lieu of stock options, currently the company grants its employees stock awards.
These awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including
Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs), or Performance Share Units (PSUs).
RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of
common stock as the award vests, typically over a two- to five-year period. The
fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the
company s stock price. For RSUs awarded after December 31, 2007, dividend
equivalents will not be paid. The fair value of such RSUs is determined and
fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price adjusted for the
exclusion of dividend equivalents.  

The following table summarizes RSU activity under the Plans during the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

105  

The
remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the
awards will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value
of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006
was $490 million, $513 million and $410 million, respectively. The total fair
value of RSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006 was $311 million, $213 million and $79 million. As of December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006, there was $863 million, $740 million and $501 million,
respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested RSUs. The
company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and
release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006.  

PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by
the employee depends on the company s performance against specified targets and
typically vest over a three-year period. The fair value of each PSU is
determined on the grant date, based on the company s stock price, and assumes
that performance targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the
number of shares of stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward
based upon the probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate
number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense
will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified
targets. The fair value of PSUs granted during the years ended December 31,
2008, 2007 and 2006 was $126 million, $116 million and $104 million,
respectively. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 was $78 million, $88 million and
$67 million, respectively.  

In connection with vesting and release of RSUs and PSUs, the tax
benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2008,
2007 and 2006 were $165 million, $133 million and $59 million, respectively.  

IBM EMPLOYEES STOCK PURCHASE PLAN   

The
company maintains a non-compensatory Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The
ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM
common stock at a five-percent discount off the average market price on the day
of purchase through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible
compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the
employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which
shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under
the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of
Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more
than $25,000 of common  stock
in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period. 

Employees purchased 3.5 million, 4.0 million and 5.8 million shares
under the ESPP during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Cash dividends declared and paid by the company on its common
stock also include cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the
ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested in
the ESPP. The company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered
outstanding and is included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes
of computing basic and diluted earnings per share.  

Approximately 12.8 million, 16.3 million and 20.3 million shares were
available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006,
respectively.  

Note U.    

   Retirement-Related
Benefits   

DESCRIPTION OF PLANS   

IBM
sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that
cover substantially all regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that
covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily
consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and
dependents.  

U.S. Plans   

DEFINED
BENEFIT PENSION PLANS   

IBM
Personal Pension Plan    

IBM
provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1,
2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal
Pension Plan. Prior to 2008, the IBM Personal Pension Plan consisted of a tax
qualified (qualified) plan and a non-tax qualified (nonqualified) plan.
Effective January 1, 2008, the non-qualified plan was renamed the Excess
Personal Pension Plan (Excess PPP) and the qualified plan is now referred to as
the Qualified PPP. The combined plan is now referred to as the PPP. The
Qualified PPP is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund,
which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The
Excess PPP, which is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations
for qualified plans.  

Benefits provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit
formulas that vary based on the participant. Pension benefits are calculated
using one of two methods based upon specified criteria used to determine each
participant s eligibility. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula
that determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other
participant-specific factors. The  

106  

second
method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a percentage of
employees  annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate.  

Benefit accruals under the IBM Personal Pension Plan ceased December 31,
2007 for all participants.  

U.S.
Supplemental Executive Retention Plan    

The
company also sponsors a non-qualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention
Plan (Retention Plan). The Retention Plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits
to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age
at termination of employment. Effective July 1, 1999, the company replaced
the then-effective Retention Plan with the current Retention Plan. Some
participants in the previous Retention Plan will still be eligible for benefits
under that prior plan if those benefits are greater than the benefits provided
under the current plan.  

Benefit accruals under the Retention Plan ceased December 31, 2007
for all participants.  

DEFINED
CONTRIBUTION PLANS   

IBM
401(k) Plus Plan    

U.S.
regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the
IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under
section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Effective January 1,
2008, under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees receive a
dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions up to 6 percent of eligible
compensation for those hired prior to January 1, 2005, and up to 5 percent
of eligible compensation for those hired on or after January 1, 2005. In
addition, eligible employees receive automatic contributions from the company
equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of eligible compensation based on their eligibility
to participate in the PPP as of December 31, 2007. Employees receive
automatic contributions and matching contributions after the completion of one
year of service.  

Prior to January 1, 2008, the company match equaled 50 percent of
the first 6 percent of eligible compensation that participants contributed to
the plan for those hired before January 1, 2005, and 100 percent of the
first 6 percent contributed for those hired after December 31, 2004.  

The company s matching contributions vest immediately and participants
are always fully vested in their own contributions. All contributions,
including the company match, are made in cash and invested in accordance with
participants  investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be
invested in company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring
amounts out of company stock to another investment choice, other than excessive
trading rules applicable to such investments.  

IBM
Excess 401(k) Plus Plan    

Effective
January 1, 2008, the company replaced the IBM Executive Deferred
Compensation Plan, an unfunded, non-qualified, defined contribution plan, with
the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess 401(k)), an unfunded,
non-qualified defined contribution plan. All employees whose eligible
compensation is expected to exceed the IRS compensation limit for qualified
plans are eligible to participate in the Excess 401(k). The purpose of the
Excess 401(k) is to provide benefits that would be provided under the
qualified IBM 401(k) Plus Plan if the compensation limits did not apply.  

Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k) are recordkeeping
(notional) accounts and are not held in trust for the participants.
Participants in the Excess 401(k) may invest their notional accounts in
the primary investment options available to all employees through the 401(k) Plus
Plan. Participants in the Excess 401(k) are also eligible to receive
company match, automatic contributions and transition credits, if applicable,
on eligible compensation deferred into the Excess 401(k) and on
compensation earned in excess of the Internal Revenue Code pay limit once they
have completed one year of service. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k),
including company contributions are recorded as liabilities.  

NONPENSION
POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN   

U.S.
Nonpension Postretirement Plan    

The
company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that
provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible
dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Effective July 1,
1999, the company established a Future Health Account (FHA) for employees who
were more than five years from retirement eligibility. Employees who were
within five years of retirement eligibility are covered under the company s
prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either the FHA or the prior
retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for
retiree health benefits.  

Since January 1, 2004, new hires, as of that date or later, are not
eligible for company subsidized postretirement benefits.  

Non-U.S. Plans   

Most
subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor  defined
benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover substantially all regular
employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements,
purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based either on years of
service and the employee s compensation (generally during a fixed number
of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The
range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit
plans reflect the different economic environments within the various
countries. 

In addition, certain of the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined
benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plans that  provide
medical and dental benefits to eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible
dependents, as well as life insurance for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees.
However, most of the non-U.S. retirees are covered by local
government sponsored and administered programs. 

107  

PLAN FINANCIAL INFORMATION   

Summary of
Financial Information   

The
following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net
periodic (income)/cost recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

* Reclassified to conform
with 2008 presentation.  

The
following table presents a summary of the total projected benefit obligation
(PBO) for defined benefit plans, accumulated postretirement benefit obligation
(APBO) for nonpension postretirement benefit plans (benefit obligations), fair
value of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

*               Funded
status is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as
follows: Asset amounts as prepaid pension assets; (Liability) amounts as
compensation and benefits (current liability) and retirement and nonpension
postretirement benefit obligations (noncurrent liability). 

**        Reclassified
to conform with 2008 presentation. 

108  

At December 31, 2008,
the company s qualified defined benefit pension plans were 93 percent funded
compared to the benefit obligations. The U.S. Qualified PPP was 97 percent
funded. Overall, including non-qualifed plans, the company s defined benefit
pension plans were 85 percent funded.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Financial Information   

The following tables
represent financial information for the company s retirement-related benefit
plans. Defined benefit pension plans in U.S. Plans consist of the Qualified
PPP, the Excess PPP and the Retention Plan. Defined benefit pension plans in
the Non-U.S. Plans consist of all such plans sponsored by the company s
subsidiaries. The nonpension postretirement benefit plan in the U.S. Plan
represents the U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan. Nonpension
postretirement benefit plans in the Non-U.S. Plans consist of all such plans
sponsored by the company s subsidiaries. Prior year amounts were reclassified
to conform with 2008 presentation.  

The following table presents
the components of net periodic (income)/cost of the company s
retirement-related benefit plans recognized in Consolidated Statement of
Earnings.  

109  

The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan
assets of the company s retirement-related benefit plans.  

*  

Excludes a defined benefit
  pension plan in Brazil due to restrictions on the use of plan assets imposed
  by governmental regulations.  

**  

Represents the Benefit
  Obligation assuming no future participant compensation increases.  

N/A Not
applicable  

The following table presents the net funded status recognized in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

The table on page 111
presents the pre-tax net loss and prior service costs/(credits) and transition
(assets)/liabilities recognized in gains and (losses) not affecting retained
earnings and the changes in pre-tax net loss, prior service costs/(credits) and
transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in accumulated gains and (losses)
not affecting retained earnings for the company s retirement-related benefit
plans.  

110  

*  

See
  note N,  Stockholders  Equity Activity,  on page 96 for the total change
  in the accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings and the
  Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity for components of net periodic
  (income)/cost, including the related tax effects, recognized in gains and
  (losses) not affecting retained earnings for the company s retirement-related
  benefit plans.  

The
following table presents the pre-tax estimated net loss, estimated prior
service costs/(credits) and estimated transition (assets)/liabilities of the
company s retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from
accumulated gains and (losses) not affecting retained earnings into net
periodic (income)/cost and recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
in 2009.  

Defined   

Nonpension   

Benefit Pension Plans   

Postretirement Benefit Plans   

(    $     IN MILLIONS    )   

U.S. Plans   

Non-U.S. Plans   

U.S. Plan   

Non-U.S. Plans   

Net loss  

$  

434  

$  

703  

$  

$  

10  

Prior service
  costs/(credits)  

9  

(113  

)  

(39  

)  

(6  

)  

Transition
  (assets)/liabilities  

0  

0  

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, the IBM Board of Directors approved a
pension adjustment for certain U.S. retirees and beneficiaries in the PPP. This
adjustment provided a pension increase to approximately 42,000 IBM retirees who
retired before January 1, 1997. This adjustment resulted in an increase in
the PBO of $222 million and had no impact on the 2008 net periodic
(income)/cost.  

During the year ended December 31, 2008, the company terminated one
of its defined benefit pension plans in Japan that resulted in a settlement
gain of $140 million recorded as part of the 2008 net periodic (income)/cost
and resulted in a decrease to the PBO of $157 million.  

No significant amendments of the retirement-related benefit plans
occurred during the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 that had a
material effect on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Assumptions
Used to Determine Plan Financial Information   

Underlying both the
measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic (income)/cost are actuarial
valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information such as
salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the most
significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return on
plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and
mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum,
annually, and makes changes as necessary.  

The table on page 112 presents the assumptions used to measure the
net periodic (income)/cost and the year-end benefit obligations for the
retirement-related benefit plans.  

111  

*  

Rate
  of compensation increase is not applicable to the U.S. defined benefit
  pension plans as benefit accruals ceased December 31, 2007 for all
  participants.  

N/A Not applicable  

N/A Not applicable  

DISCOUNT
RATE   

The
discount rate assumptions used for the retirement-related benefit plans
accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed income debt
instruments at the measurement date. For the U.S. discount rate assumptions, a
portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds is constructed with maturities that
match the expected timing of the benefit obligation payments. In the non-U.S.,
where markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well
developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a base, to
which a credit spread is added to simulate corporate bond yields at these
maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan, as the benchmark for developing
the respective discount rates. The value of the portfolios constructed in
developing the discount rate assumptions is sufficient to effectively settle
the benefit obligations and excludes any bonds that do not represent
high-quality corporate bonds as a result of current market fluctuations.  

For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in discount rate
assumptions impacted the net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. The changes in
discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase  in the 2008 net periodic income of $67
million, a decrease in the 2007 net periodic cost of $92 million and an
increase in the 2006 net periodic
cost of $94 million. The changes in discount rate assumptions resulted in an
increase in the PBO of $1,190 million and a decrease of $1,192 million at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. 

For the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in discount
rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in the 2008 net periodic cost of $335
million and an increase in the 2007 and 2006 net periodic cost of $30 million
and $274 million, respectively.  

For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the changes in discount
rate assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years
ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 and on the APBO at December 31,
2008 and 2007.  

EXPECTED
LONG-TERM RETURNS ON PLAN ASSETS   

Expected
returns on plan assets, a component of net periodic (income)/cost, represent
the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated
market-related value of plan assets. The market-related value of plan assets
recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a
five-year period. Expected long-term returns on plan assets take into account
long-term expectations for future returns and investment strategy. These rates
of return are developed by the company, calculated using an arithmetic  average  

112  

and
are tested for reasonableness against the historical return average, usually
over a ten-year period. The use of expected long-term returns on plan assets
may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual
returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the
expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns,
and therefore result in a pattern of income and cost recognition that more
closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees.
Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized over five years
in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic (income)/cost and
also as a component of net loss or gain in accumulated gains and (losses) not
affecting retained earnings, which is recognized over the service lives of the
employees in the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based
upon the obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting
standards.  

For the Qualified PPP, the expected long-term return on plan assets of
8.00 percent remained constant for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006 and, consequently, had no incremental impact on net periodic
(income)/cost.  

For the non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the
expected long-term return on plan assets resulted in an increase in the 2008,
2007 and 2006 net periodic cost of $41 million, $50 million and $18 million,
respectively.  

For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company maintains a
nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure payments are made timely.
As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, the
expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets
were not material.  

RATE OF
COMPENSATION INCREASES AND MORTALITY RATE   

The
rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its
long-term plans for such increases. The rate of compensation increase is not
applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased
December 31, 2007 for all participants. Mortality rate assumptions are
based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants.
Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. Changes to
defined benefit pension plans mortality rate assumptions increased the 2008 and
2007 net periodic cost by $197 million and $80 million, respectively, and
increased the 2008 and 2007 benefit obligation by $472 million and $790
million, respectively. Changes to the rate of compensation increases reduced
the 2006 net periodic cost by $32 million.  

INTEREST
CREDITING RATE   

Benefits
for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance
formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate,
which impacts both net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. This assumption
provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants
will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following
year and is based on the average from August to October of the
one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent.  

For the PPP, the change in the interest crediting rate to 5.2 percent
for the year ended December 31, 2008 from 6.0 percent for the year ended December 31,
2007 resulted in an increase in the 2008 net periodic income of $65 million.
The change in the interest crediting rate to 6.0 percent for the year ended December 31,
2007 from 5.0 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in an
increase in the 2007 net periodic cost of $125 million. The change in the
interest crediting rate to 5.0 percent for the year ended December 31,
2006 from 3.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2005 resulted in an
increase in the 2006 net periodic cost of $170 million.  

HEALTHCARE
COST TREND RATE   

For
nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external
data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the
healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an
insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of
the plan which limit the company s obligation to the participants. The company
assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2009 will be 7.5 percent. In
addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5
percent over the next four years. A one percentage point increase or decrease
in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have a material effect on
the 2008, 2007 and 2006 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations as of December 31,
2008 and 2007.  

Plan Assets   

Retirement-related
benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value using quoted
prices in active markets. In the absence of quoted prices in active markets,
quoted prices for similar assets or financial instruments for which significant
inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly, are used. Certain assets
are measured using prices or valuations that require inputs that are both
significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable. Because of the
inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements might not
necessarily indicate the amounts the company could realize in current market
transactions.  

DEFINED
BENEFIT PENSION PLANS   

The
company s defined benefit pension plans  asset allocations at December 31,
2008 and 2007 and target allocation for 2009, by asset category, are as
follows:  

U.S. Plan
(Actual Allocations)   

*  

See
  the discussion on page 114 regarding certain private market assets, and
  future funding commitments thereof, that are not as liquid as the publicly traded
  securities.  

113  

Non-U.S.
Plans (Weighted-Average)   

The
investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate
returns that will enable the Qualified PPP to meet its future obligations. The
precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future
events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans 
participants. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based
on the current economic environment. The Qualified PPP portfolio s investment
strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher
yielding assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the
portfolio with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks
include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in
interest rates that could cause the plans to become underfunded, thereby
increasing their dependence on contributions from the company. Within each
asset class, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among
industry sectors, geographies, interest rate sensitivity, dependence on
economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns.
During 2007, the company modified the asset allocation of the Qualified PPP portfolio
primarily by reducing public equity securities, by increasing debt securities
from 33 percent to 43 percent of total plan assets, and by increasing the
duration of debt securities and increasing the use of derivatives, including
interest rate swaps in debt securities, to further mitigate the effects of
future interest rate changes. These changes were designed to reduce the
potential negative impact that equity markets or interest rates might have on
the funded status of the Qualified PPP. These changes did not impact the
expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, which remained at 8.00
percent for 2008. The effect on expected long-term return on plan assets of
increasing the duration of debt securities substantially offset the effect of
reducing public equity securities. Derivatives are also used to hedge currency,
adjust portfolio duration and reduce specific market risks.  

The assets are managed by professional investment firms, as well as by
investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by
mandates and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers,
consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration,
issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and
passive investment strategies.  Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with only a modest
percentage of the Qualified PPP portfolio invested in private market assets
consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are
less liquid than publicly traded securities. 

The Qualified PPP portfolio included private market assets comprising
approximately 12.9 percent and 12.0 percent of total assets at December 31,
2008 and 2007, respectively. The target allocation for private market assets in
2009 is 12.9 percent. As of December 31, 2008, the Qualified PPP portfolio
had $3,999 million in commitments for future private market investments to be
made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from
plan assets.  

Other assets in the Qualified PPP portfolio include commodities and
non-traditional investments designed to further diversify the returns of the
portfolio.  

Equity securities include IBM common stock of $83 million, representing
0.2 percent of the Qualified PPP plan assets at December 31, 2008 and $111
million, representing 0.2 percent of the plan assets at December 31, 2007.  

Outside the U.S., the investment objectives are similar, subject to
local regulations. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed
income securities is required. In others, the responsibility for managing the
investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of
members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight
differences compared with the strategies previously described. Generally, these
non-U.S. funds do not invest in illiquid assets and their use of derivatives is
usually limited to currency hedging, adjusting portfolio durations and reducing
specific market risks. There was no significant change in the investment
strategies of these plans during either 2008 or 2007.  

Expected
Contributions   

Defined Benefit Pension Plans   

It
is the company s general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to
meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws
and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional
amounts as it deems appropriate.  

The company contributed $917 million and $503 million in cash to
non-U.S. plans, including non-U.S. multi-employer plans, during the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

In 2009, the company is not legally required to make any contributions
to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. However, depending on market
conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary
contributions to the Qualified PPP during the year.  

The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006,
is a comprehensive reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension
funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides
guidelines for measuring pension plan assets  

114  

and
pension obligations for funding purposes and raises tax deduction limits for
contributions to retirement-related benefit plans. The additional funding
requirements by the Act apply to plan years beginning after December 31,
2007. The Act was updated by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of
2008, which revised the funding requirements in the Act by clarifying that
pension plans may smooth the value of pension plans over 24 months. The
adoption of the Act, as modified, is not expected to have a material effect on
the company s minimum mandatory contributions to its PPP.  

In 2009, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. plans to be
approximately $1,000 million, which will be mainly contributed to defined
benefit pension plans in Japan, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland, Belgium
and the United Kingdom. These 2009 contributions represent the legally mandated
minimum contributions. Financial market performance in 2009 could increase the
legally mandated minimum contribution in certain countries which require monthly
or daily remeasurement of the funded status. The company could also elect to
contribute more than the legally mandated amount based on market conditions or
other factors.  

Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans   

The
company contributed $10 million and $850 million to the non-pension
postretirement benefit plans during the years ended December 31, 2008 and
2007. These contribution amounts exclude the Medicare-related subsidy discussed
below. The 2007 funding included a $500 million voluntary contribution to the
U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan to fund benefit payments.  

Expected
Benefit Payments   

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected Payments   

The
following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit
pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same
assumptions used to measure the plans  PBO at December 31, 2008 and
include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases, where
applicable.  

The
2009 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not
covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans) represent a component
of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position.  

Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Expected Payments   

The
following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension
postretirement benefit plan participants, as well as the expected receipt of
the company s share of the Medicare subsidy described below. These payments
have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plan s
APBO at December 31, 2008.  

The
2009 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan
participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of
compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position.   

MEDICARE
PRESCRIPTION DRUG ACT   

In
connection with the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization
Act of 2003, the company is expected to continue to receive a federal subsidy
of approximately $269 million to subsidize  

115  

the prescription drug coverage
provided by the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan, which is expected
to extend until 2012. Approximately $143 million of the subsidy will be used by
the company to reduce its obligation and cost related to the U.S. nonpension
postretirement benefit plan. The company will contribute the remaining subsidy
of $126 million to the plan in order to reduce contributions required by the
participants. The company received a total subsidy of $45 million and $46
million for prescription drug-related coverage during the years ended
December 31, 2008 and 2007, which was utilized to reduce the company
contributions to the U.S. non-pension postretirement benefit plan.  

The company has included the
impact of its portion of the subsidy in the determination of net periodic cost
and APBO for the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan at and for the
years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006. The impact of the subsidy
resulted in a reduction in APBO of $127 million and $139 million at
December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The impact of the subsidy
resulted in a reduction in the 2008, 2007 and 2006 net periodic cost of $40
million, $36 million and $40 million, respectively.  

OTHER PLAN INFORMATION   

The following table presents
information for defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit
obligations (ABO) in excess of plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of
the funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans, see table on
page 110.  

Note V.    

   Segment
Information   

The company uses business insight
and its broad range of IT capabilities to create client- and industry-specific
information solutions. The company operates primarily in a single industry
using several segments that create value by offering solutions that include,
either singularly or in some combination, services, software, hardware and
financing.  

The
company s major operations are comprised of a Global Technology Services
segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Software segment; a
predominantly hardware product segment Systems and Technology; and a Global
Financing segment. The segments represent components of the company for which
separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis
by the chief executive officer in determining how to allocate the company s
resources and evaluate performance. The segments are determined based on
several factors, including client base, homogeneity of products, technology,
delivery channels and similar economic characteristics.  

Information about each
segment s business and the products and services that generate each segment s
revenue is located in the  Description of Business  section of the Management
Discussion on pages 22 and 23, and  Segment Details,  on pages 25 to
30.  

Segment revenue and pre-tax income
include transactions between  the
segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price. Hardware
and software that is used by the Global Technology Services segment in
outsourcing engagements is primarily sourced internally from the Systems and
Technology and Software segments. For the internal use of IT services, Global
Technology Services and Global Business Services recover cost, as well as a
reasonable fee, reflecting the arm s-length value of providing the services.
The Global Services segments enter into arm s-length leases and loans at prices
equivalent to market rates with the Global Financing segment to facilitate the
acquisition of equipment used in services engagements. All internal transaction
prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate. 

The company utilizes globally
integrated support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient
use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by
all of the segments. This shared expense includes sales coverage, marketing and
support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human
Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are
allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear
and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a
financial basis that is consistent with the company s management system; e.g.,
advertising is allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. The
unallocated corporate amounts arising from certain divestitures, indirect
infrastructure reductions, miscellaneous tax items and the unallocated
corporate expense pool are recorded in net income but are not allocated to the
segments.  

116  

The following tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the
segments consistent with the company s management and measurement system. These
results are not necessarily a depiction that is in conformity with GAAP; e.g.,
employee retirement plan costs are developed using actuarial assumptions on a
country-by-country basis  and
allocated to the segments based on headcount. Different amounts could result if
actuarial assumptions that are unique to the segment were used. Performance
measurement is based on pre-tax income. These results are used, in part, by
management, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources
to, each of the segments. 

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SEGMENT VIEW   

Reconciliations
of IBM as Reported   

Within
pre-tax income from continuing operations, unallocated corporate amounts in
2008 and 2007 include the interest expense associated with the incremental debt
to support the ASR executed in 2007. The gain from the divestiture of the
printing business is also included in the unallocated corporate amount for
2007.  

117  

IMMATERIAL ITEMS   

Investment in Equity Alliances and Equity Alliances
Gains/(Losses)   

The
investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these
investments that are attributable to the segments did not have a material
effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments.  

SEGMENT ASSETS AND OTHER ITEMS   

Global
Technology Services assets are primarily accounts receivable, plant, property
and equipment including those associated with the segment s outsourcing
business, goodwill, acquired intangible assets, deferred services arrangement
transition costs and maintenance parts inventory. Global Business Services
assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Software segment assets
are mainly goodwill, intangible assets and accounts receivable. Systems and
Technology assets are primarily plant, property and equipment, manufacturing
inventory and accounts receivable. The assets of the Global Financing segment
are primarily financing receivables and fixed assets under operating leases.  

To accomplish the efficient use of the company s space and equipment, it
usually is necessary for several segments to share plant, property and
equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is
assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user segment. This is
consistent with the company s management system and is reflected accordingly in
the table below. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation
between segment pre-tax income and segment assets.  

Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based
on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts
that are included in the segments  pre-tax income. The amounts that are
included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment
and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital
expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the
landlord ownership basis of asset assignment.  

The Global Financing segment amounts for interest income and interest
expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the
Global Financing business, including the intercompany financing activities
discussed on page 53, as well as the income from investment in cash and
marketable securities. The explanation of the difference between cost of
financing and interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 56 of the
Management Discussion.  

MANAGEMENT SYSTEM SEGMENT VIEW   

118  

Reconciliations
of IBM as Reported   

MAJOR
CLIENTS   

No single client represents 10 percent or more of the company s total
revenue.  

GEOGRAPHIC
INFORMATION   

The following provides information for those countries that are 10
percent or more of the specific category.  

Revenue*   

*                    Revenues are attributed to countries based on
location of client. 

Net Plant,
Property and Equipment   

REVENUE
BY CLASSES OF SIMILAR PRODUCTS OR SERVICES   

The table below presents
external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the company s
reportable segments.  Within Global
Technology Services and Global Business Services, client solutions often
include IBM software and hardware and other suppliers  products if the client
solution requires it. Within Software, product license charges and ongoing
subscription and support are reported as Software and consulting, education,
training and other product-related services are reported as Services. Within
Systems and Technology,  Microelectronics
original equipment manufacturer (OEM) revenue is primarily from the sale of
semiconductors. Microelectronics Services revenue includes circuit and
component design services and technology and manufacturing consulting services.
See  Description of the Business  beginning on page 20 for additional
information. The data is presented on a continuing operations basis.  

* Reclassified
to conform with 2008 presentation.  

Note W.   

   Subsequent Event   

On January 27, 2009, the company announced that the Board of
Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per common share. The dividend
is payable March 10, 2009 to shareholders of record on February 10,
2009.  

119  

Five-year
  Comparison of Selected Financial Data      International
  Business Machines Corporation  and Subsidiary Companies  

*  

Reflects
  implementation of FASB Interpretation No. 47,  Accounting for
  Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations.   

**  

Restated
  to conform with 2008 presentation using a five-quarter average for
  stockholders  equity.  

120  

Selected Quarterly Data   
     International Business Machines
  Corporation    and Subsidiary Companies  

*  

Earnings
  Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number
  of shares outstanding during that quarter while EPS for the full year is
  computed using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the
  year. Thus, the sum of the four quarter s EPS does not equal the full-year
  EPS.  

**  

The
  stock prices reflect the high and low prices for IBM s common stock on the
  New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the last two years.  

121  

Performance
  Graphs 
     International Business Machines Corporation   and Subsidiary Companies  

Comparison of One-, Five- and Ten-year Cumulative Total
Return for IBM, S P 500 Stock Index and S P Information Technology
Index   

The
following graphs compare the one-, five- and ten-year cumulative total returns
for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain
Standard   Poor s (S P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a
company included in the S P 500 Stock Index, the SEC s rules require
the use of that index for the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the
second index used for comparison may be a published industry or
line-of-business index. The S P Information Technology Index is such an
index. IBM is also included in this index.  

Each graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the initial
year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the same date
in each of the S P indices. The comparisons assume that all dividends are
reinvested.  

ONE-YEAR  

One-year   

FIVE-YEAR  

Five-year   

122  

TEN-YEAR  

Ten-year   

123  

Board
  of Directors and Senior Leadership 
     International Business Machines Corporation   and Subsidiary Companies  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS   

Alain J.P.
  Belda    

Shirley
  Ann Jackson    

Sidney
  Taurel    

Chairman  

President  

Chairman Emeritus  

Alcoa Inc.  

Rensselaer Polytechnic
  Institute  

Eli Lilly and Company  

Cathleen
  Black    

Taizo
  Nishimuro    

Lorenzo
  H. Zambrano    

President  

Chairman  

Chairman and  

Hearst Magazines  

Tokyo Stock Exchange
  Group, Inc.  

Chief Executive Officer  

CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.  

William R.
  Brody    

James
  W. Owens    

President  

Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer  

Salk
  Institute for Biological Studies  

Caterpillar Inc.  

Kenneth I.
  Chenault    

Samuel
  J. Palmisano    

Chairman and Chief
  Executive Officer  

Chairman, President and  

American Express Company  

Chief Executive Officer  

IBM  

Michael L.
  Eskew    

Retired Chairman and  

Joan E.
  Spero    

Chief Executive Officer  

Visiting Fellow  

United Parcel
  Service, Inc.  

Foundation Center  

SENIOR LEADERSHIP   

Rodney C.
  Adkins    

John E.
  Kelly III    

Samuel
  J. Palmisano    

Senior Vice President  

Senior Vice President  

Chairman, President and  

Development and Manufacturing  

Research and Intellectual
  Property  

Chief Executive Officer  

Systems and Technology
  Group  

R.
  Franklin Kern III    

Virginia
  M. Rometty    

Andrew
  Bonzani    

Senior Vice President  

Senior Vice President  

Vice President,  

Global Business Services  

Global Sales and Distribution  

Assistant General Counsel
  and Secretary  

Mark
  Loughridge    

Linda
  S. Sanford    

Michael E.
  Daniels    

Senior Vice President and  

Senior Vice President  

Senior Vice President  

Chief Financial Officer  

Enterprise On Demand
  Transformation  

Global Technology Services  

J.
  Randall MacDonald    

Martin
  J. Schroeter    

Jesse J.
  Greene, Jr.    

Senior Vice President  

Treasurer  

Vice President  

Human Resources  

Financial Management  

Timothy
  S. Shaughnessy    

Steven
  A. Mills    

Vice President  

Jon C. Iwata    

Senior Vice President  

Services Delivery  

Senior Vice President  

Software Group  

Marketing and
  Communications  

Robert
  C. Weber    

Robert
  W. Moffat, Jr.    

Senior Vice President  

James J.
  Kavanaugh    

Senior Vice President  

Legal and Regulatory
  Affairs, and  

Vice President and Controller  

Systems and Technology
  Group  

General Counsel  

124  

Stockholder
  Information 
     International Business Machines Corporation   and Subsidiary Companies  

IBM
STOCKHOLDER SERVICES   

Stockholders with questions about
their accounts should contact:  

Computershare
Trust Company, N.A.  

  P.O. Box
43072  

  Providence,
Rhode Island 02940-3072  

  (888)
IBM-6700  

Investors
residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781)
575-2727.  

Stockholders
can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at:
ibm@computershare.com  

Hearing-impaired
stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate
directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493.
Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should
call (781) 575-2694.  

IBM ON THE
INTERNET   

Topics
featured in this Annual Report can be found via the IBM home page on the
Internet (http://www.ibm.com). Financial results, news on IBM products,
services and other activities can also be found via that address.  

Stockholders
of record can receive online account information and answers to frequently
asked questions regarding stockholder accounts via the Internet
(http://www.ibm.com/investor).  

Stockholders
of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports and Proxy
Statements online through the Internet at this site.  

IBM
files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC.
Certifications by IBM s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer are
included as exhibits to the company s SEC reports as required (including the
company s Form 10-K filed in 2009), and Certifications by IBM s Chief
Executive Officer are included in the company s filings with the New York Stock
Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange as required (including filings in
2008).  

IBM s
website (http://www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about
IBM, including the company s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to
those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC
(http://www.ibm.com/investor). These materials are available free of charge on
or through our website.  

The
public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the
SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference
Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet
site (http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information
statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically
with the SEC.  

IBM INVESTOR
SERVICES PROGRAM   

The
Investor Services Program brochure outlines a number of services provided for
IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of
dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for
safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing
outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  

Investors
with other requests may write to:  

IBM
Stockholder Relations  

  New
Orchard Road  

  Armonk,
New York 10504  

IBM STOCK   

IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock
Exchange, and outside the United States.  

ANNUAL
MEETING   

The
IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 28,
2009, at 10 a.m. in Hall D of the Miami Convention Center, 1901 Convention
Center Drive, Miami Beach, Florida.  

STOCKHOLDER
COMMUNICATIONS   

Stockholders
in the United States and Canada can get quarterly financial results, listen to
a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks and hear voting results from the
meeting by calling (800) IBM-7800. Callers can also request printed copies of
the information via mail or fax. Stockholders residing outside the United
States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (402) 573-9861.  

LITERATURE
FOR IBM STOCKHOLDERS   

The following literature on
IBM is available without charge from:  

Computershare
Trust Company, N.A.  

  P.O. Box
43072  

  Providence,
Rhode Island 02940-3072  

  (888)
IBM-6700  

Investors
residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781)
575-2727.  

The
Form 10-K Annual Report and Form 10-Q Quarterly Reports to the SEC
provide additional information on IBM s business. The 10-K report is released
by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and
November.  

An
audio of the 2008 Annual Report will be available for sight-impaired
stockholders in June.  

The
IBM Corporate Responsibility Report details the company s distinct strategy and
results in the areas of governance, supply chain, environmental performance,
employment policies and practices, client solutions, community engagements and
collaborative practices. The report also highlights how hundreds of IBMers from
around the world will take part in IBM s Corporate Service Corps, a new program
to develop employee leadership skills while addressing socio-economic
challenges in emerging markets. The report includes key performance metrics for
energy and climate, supply chain social responsibility, employee learning and
diversity. Further information and a downloadable copy of the report is
available on IBM s corporate responsibility reporting website: www.ibm.com/ibm/responsibility.

GENERAL
INFORMATION   

For
answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United
States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto
Rico, call (404) 238-1234.  

CORPORATE
OFFICES   

International Business
Machines Corporation  

  New Orchard Road  

  Armonk, New York 10504  

  (914) 499-1900  

The IBM Annual Report is
printed on recycled paper and is recyclable.  

Cognos,
DataMirror, Diligent Technologies, Domino, DS8000, FileNet, IBM, Lotus, Lotus
Notes, Micromuse, MRO Software, Notes, POWER, POWER5+, POWER6, Rational, System
i, System p, System x, System z, Tivoli, WatchFire, WebDialogs and WebSphere
are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Business Machines
Corporation or its wholly owned subsidiaries. Java is a trademark of Sun
Microsystems, Inc. Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. UNIX is a
registered trademark of The Open Group in the United States and other
countries. Other company, product and service names may be trademarks or
service marks of others.  

Printed in the U.S.A.
G507-0501-16  

125  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 7
 a2189817zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 21            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES            

  Subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2008   

(A)    Minor
percentage held by other IBM shareholders subject to repurchase option.    

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 21   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 8
 a2189817zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos.
2-77235, 33-29022, 33-33458, 33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815,
333-01411, 33-52931, 33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305,
333-41813, 333-44981, 333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751, 333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424,
333-33692, 333-36510, 333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327, 333-148964 and
333-151673) and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 333-03763, 333-27669, 333-32690,
333-101034, 333-145104 and 333-145104-01) of International Business Machines Corporation of our report dated February 24, 2009, relating to the financial statements and
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2008 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We
also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 24, 2009, relating to the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 
New York, New York 
February 24, 2009   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 9
 a2189817zex-24_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.1

EXHIBIT
24.1   

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF SAMUEL J. PALMISANO   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge and Robert C.
Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with
full power to act without the others, for him and in his name, place and stead,
in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all
amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith,
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do
and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in
and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or
could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Samuel J. Palmisano  

Samuel J. Palmisano  

Chairman of the Board,
  President and Chief Executive Officer  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF MARK LOUGHRIDGE   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation,
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C.,
under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2008  on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Samuel
J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for him and
in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K
Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full
power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Mark Loughridge  

Mark Loughridge  

Senior Vice President and Chief
  Financial Officer  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF JAMES J. KAVANAUGH   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Vice President and Controller of International
Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the
securities laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby
constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto,
and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents,
and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts
and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as
fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of
them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ James J. Kavanaugh  

James J. Kavanaugh  

Vice President and
  Controller  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Alain J. P. Belda  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Cathleen Black  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ William R. Brody  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary
to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as
he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and
authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary
to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as
he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be
done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Michael L. Eskew  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Shirley Ann Jackson  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Taizo Nishimuro  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ James W. Owens  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may
lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Joan E. Spero  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark
Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them
with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his or her
name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual
Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in
connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby
granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power
and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes
as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all
that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause
to be done by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Sidney Taurel  

Director  

POWER
OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE
PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines
Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities
laws, an Annual Report for 2008 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and
appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge,
Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact
and agents for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to
act without the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and
stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and
all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority
to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be
done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or
she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the
undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 24th day of February 2009.  

/s/ Lorenzo H. Zambrano  

Director  

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 10
 a2189817zex-24_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.2

EXHIBIT 24.2   

RESOLUTION REGARDING FILING FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT   

RESOLVED,
that the Form 10-K Annual Report for the year 2008 be, and hereby is,
approved and that the Officers of the Corporation be, and they hereby are,
authorized and empowered to execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K
and to make such additions, supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion
may be necessary or desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies.  

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 a2189817zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS 
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Samuel J. Palmisano, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date:
February 24, 2009   

/s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 a2189817zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Mark Loughridge, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date:
February 24, 2009   

/s/ MARK LOUGHRIDGE 

Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President 
Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 a2189817zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In
connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2008, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Samuel J. Palmisano, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
February 24, 2009  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 a2189817zex-32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for
the period ending December 31, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MARK LOUGHRIDGE 

Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
February 24, 2009  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

