<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100223_10-K_edgar_data_51143_0001047469-10-001151_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16515375</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>761588</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>333361</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4431282</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4664020</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4493275</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>146</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-10-001151.hdr.sgml : 20100223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100223133157
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-10-001151
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		27
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000051143
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT [3570]
		IRS NUMBER:				130871985
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02360
		FILM NUMBER:		10625157

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD ROAD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9144991900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD RD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 OeY3f1To1B0a7QVPYZsA4nwOSciUAgsyfkPk5oN11r94Rgz/+2kqZ+7J+dOL68ZW
 qRcaQvZ0RzEbvu0DCZ560A==

 0001047469-10-001151.txt : 20100223

10-K
 1
 a2195966z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K       ANNUAL REPORT 
pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009     

    1-2360      (Commission file number)   

   INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION      (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

914-499-1900      (Registrant's telephone number)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes        No       

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.       

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be
submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting
company. See definition of "accelerated filer," "large accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-Accelerated filer      

Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
Yes        No       

           The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently
completed second fiscal quarter was $136.8 billion.   

  Documents
incorporated by reference:   

           Portions
of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2009 into Parts I, II and IV of Form 10-K.   

           Portions
of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held April 27, 2010 are incorporated by reference into Part III of Form 10-K.   

PART I            

    Item 1. Business:     

          International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as
the Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of
New York. Since that time, IBM has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological invention, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 80
years ago, in 1924, when C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today: The company creates business value for clients and solves business problems
through integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client's operational costs or by enabling
new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing.   

    STRATEGY     

          Despite the volatility of the information technology (IT) industry over the past decade, IBM has consistently delivered superior
performance, with a steady track record of sustained earnings per share growth. The company has shifted its business mix, exiting commoditized segments while increasing its presence in higher-value
areas such as services, software and integrated solutions. As part of this shift, the company has acquired over 100 companies this past decade, complementing and scaling its portfolio of products and
offerings.   

          IBM's
clear strategy has enabled steady results in core business areas, while expanding its offerings and addressable markets. The key tenets of this strategy
are:   

Deliver value to enterprise clients through integrated business and IT innovation     
           Build/expand strong positions in growth initiatives     
           Shift the business mix to higher-value software and services     
           Become the premier globally integrated enterprise    

These
priorities reflect a broad shift in client spending away from "point products" and toward integrated solutions, as companies seek higher levels of business value from their IT
investments. IBM has been able to deliver this enhanced client value thanks to its industry expertise, understanding of clients' businesses and the breadth and depth of the company's capabilities.   

IBM's
growth initiatives, like its strengthened capabilities, align with these client priorities. These initiatives include Smarter Planet and Industry Frameworks, Growth Markets,
Business Analytics and
Cloud Computing. Each initiative represents a significant growth opportunity with attractive profit margins for IBM.   

     Smarter Planet and Industry Frameworks      

          Smarter planet is an overarching strategy that highlights IBM's differentiated capabilities and generates broad-based demand for the
company's products and services. Smarter Planet encapsulates IBM's view of enterprise IT's next major revolution: the instrumentation and integration of the world's processes and
infrastructures from energy grids and pipelines to supply chains and traffic systems. The massive amount of data these systems are generating can now be captured and analyzed. This
infusion of intelligence enables more efficiency, productivity and responsiveness.   

  1  

Clients
seeking these "smart" solutions value IBM's deep industry and process expertise, powerful back-end systems and data analytics, complex systems integration capability
and unique research capacity.   

          IBM's
Industry Frameworks create a flexible software foundation for developing, acquiring and deploying smart industry solutions. Each framework supports multiple solutions, enabling
fast, efficient and tailored capabilities in support of clients' business needs. These frameworks represent a proven technique for the company to engage with its clients, driving sustained growth and
high business value. They cover a wide variety of industries and domains, most of which are directly tied to Smarter Planet.   

     Growth Markets      

          The company has benefited from its investments over the past several years in growth markets. The focus now is on geographic expansion
of IBM's presence; on specific industry verticals of the highest impact and opportunity; on countries' build-out of infrastructure aligned with their national agendas; and on creating
markets and new business models to serve the different requirements that exist in these emerging countries.   

          In
order to support this growth, IBM is continuing to invest significantly in these markets to expand capacity and develop talent. At the same time, IBM is expanding and benefiting from
large teams of talent with global missions of delivery. The company continues to deepen its research and development (R D) teams to design for the unique challenges and rapid growth facing these
markets.   

     Business Analytics and Optimization      

          Business optimization through the application of advanced analytics is emerging as another major category of business value. It
succeeds earlier generations of back-office automation, basic enterprise resource planning and traditional business intelligence. Advanced analytics allow clients to see patterns in data
they could not see before, understand their exposure to risk and predict the outcomes of business decisions with greater certainty.   

          IBM's
approach is end-to-end, providing cross-enterprise as well as industry-based analytics solutions. IBM has established the Business Analytics and
Optimization practice, leveraging IBM consulting capabilities and software products, along with systems and research assets. IBM's breadth of expertise uniquely positions the company for revenue and
profit growth.   

     Cloud Computing      

          "Cloud" is an emerging consumption and delivery model for many IT-related services. Clients are attracted to its improved
economics, flexibility and user experience. Traditional enterprise IT will increasingly integrate with these new cloud deployments, delivered as services via the Internet (also known as public clouds)
or behind a firewall (private clouds). In discussions with enterprise clients, most are initially focused on private cloud implementations, the middle ground between the traditional enterprise IT and
public clouds.   

          IBM
is helping clients determine how to leverage cloud computing to achieve business advantage. The company provides a full set of capabilities, from support in designing and
implementing cloud solutions, to services for running and managing them if desired. IBM is applying its deep experience in critical areas such as security, reliability and innovation to deliver
differentiated value. The company is also investing in new cloud initiatives tailored to particular industries, in conjunction with its partners and clients, to deliver cloud business services
directly to the market. By providing deployment choice, optimizing solutions based on workload characteristics and delivering complete service management capabilities, IBM is positioned as the leading
cloud service and infrastructure provider for enterprises.   

  2  

BUSINESS MODEL     

          The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping clients succeed in delivering business value by becoming
more innovative, efficient and competitive through the use of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over
time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have the best long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.   

          The
company's global capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide
business insight and solutions for the company's clients.   

          The
business model is flexible, adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. The company continues to divest commoditizing businesses and strengthen its
position through strategic investments and acquisitions in higher value segments like business analytics, smarter planet and cloud computing. In addition, the company has transformed itself into a
globally integrated enterprise which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and participation in the world's fastest growing markets. As a result, the company is a higher
performing enterprise today than it was several years ago.   

          The
business model, supported by the company's long-term financial model, has enabled the company to deliver consistently strong earnings, cash flows and returns to
shareholders in changing economic environments.   

    BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND CAPABILITIES     

          The company's major operations comprise: a Global Technology Services segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Software segment;
a Systems and Technology segment; and a Global Financing segment.   

             Global Services    is a critical component of the company's strategy of providing IT infrastructure and business insight and solutions to
clients. While solutions often include industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers' products are also used if a client solution requires it. Approximately 60 percent of external Global
Services segment revenue is annuity-based, coming primarily from outsourcing, maintenance and custom application management services arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid revenue
base entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments: Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.   

Global Technology Services (GTS)    primarily provides IT infrastructure services and business process services, delivering business value through the
company's global scale, standardization and automation.   

  G  TS CAPABILITIES   

             Strategic Outsourcing Services.    Comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients' existing infrastructures to
ensure better quality, cost control, adaptability, security and compliance. IBM integrates long-standing experience in service management, technology and industry applications with new
technologies, such as cloud computing and virtualization, to enable new capabilities for clients.   

             Business Transformation Outsourcing.    A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and Business Process Outsourcing through
transformational offerings that deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure.   

Integrated Technology Services.    Project-based portfolio of services that enable clients to optimize their IT environments by driving
efficiency, flexibility and productivity, while reducing costs. The   

  3  

standardized
portfolio is built around key assets and patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies that ensure predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance.   

Maintenance.    A complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution support to maintain and improve the
availability of clients' IT infrastructure.   

          The
GTS outsourcing businesses are supported by integrated worldwide delivery organizations:   

             Integrated Technology Delivery (ITD)    is responsible for worldwide service delivery supporting the Strategic Outsourcing business. It
manages the world's largest privately-owned IT infrastructure with employees in over 40 countries, supporting over 450 data centers. ITD operates a globally integrated delivery model which supports
regional client-facing teams by utilizing a global network of competencies and centers. Each competency provides industry-leading, standardized, integrated tools and processes. By leveraging IBM's
global scale, skills and technology which is combined with the innovation from IBM research, clients gain access to leading edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility and
cost.   

             Business Process Delivery (BPD)    provides highly efficient, world-class delivery capabilities in IBM's business process delivery
operations, which include Business Transformation Outsourcing, Business Process Outsourcing and Business Process Services. BPD has employees and delivery centers in over 40 countries worldwide.   

Global Business Services (GBS)    primarily provides professional services and application outsourcing services, delivering business value and innovation
to clients through solutions which leverage industry- and business-process expertise.   

  G  BS CAPABILITIES   

             Consulting and Systems Integration.    Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for client-relationship management, financial
management, human-capital management, business strategy and change, and supply-chain management. In 2009, the company announced the creation of a new consulting service line dedicated to the market
for advanced business analytics and business optimization.   

             Application Management Services.    Application development, management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as
custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through the company's global resource capabilities, industry knowledge and the standardization and automation of application development.   

   Software    consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and
applications across a standard software platform. IBM middleware is designed on open standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications, developed by different methods and
implemented at different times. Operating systems are the software engines that run computers. Approximately two-thirds of external software segment revenue is annuity-based, coming from
recurring license charges and ongoing subscription and support from one-time charge (OTC) arrangements. The remaining one-third relates to OTC arrangements in which clients pay
one, up-front payment for a perpetual license. Typically, arrangements for the sale of OTC software include one year of subscription and support. Clients can also purchase ongoing
subscription and support after the first year, which includes product upgrades and technical support.   

  S  OFTWARE CAPABILITIES   

             WebSphere Software.    Delivers capabilities that enable clients to integrate and manage business processes across their organizations with
the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing   

  4  

conditions
quickly. With a services-oriented architecture (SOA), businesses can more easily link together their fragmented data and business processes to extract value from their existing technology.   

             Information Management Software.    Enables clients to integrate, manage and use their information to gain business value and improve their
outcomes. Solutions include advanced database management, enterprise content management, information integration, data warehousing, business analytics and intelligence, performance management and
predictive analytics.   

             Tivoli Software.    Helps clients manage their technology and business assets by providing visibility, control and automation across their
organizations. With solutions for identity management, data security, storage management and the ability to provide automation and provisioning of the datacenter, Tivoli helps build the infrastructure
needed to make the world's systems from transportation to water, energy and telecommunications run smarter.   

             Lotus Software.    Enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective communication and increased productivity through
collaboration, messaging and social networking software. By
remaining at the forefront of collaboration tools, Lotus helps organizations reap the benefits of social networking and other Web 2.0 modalities.   

Rational Software.    Supports software development for both IT and embedded system solutions with a suite of Application Lifecycle
Management products. Jazz, Rational's technology platform, transforms the way people work together to build software, making software delivery more collaborative, productive and transparent.   

             Operating Systems.    Software that manages the fundamental processes that make computers run.   

   Systems and Technology    provides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and storage capabilities. Approximately
55 percent of Systems and Technology's server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners; approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user
clients. In addition, Systems and Technology provides leading semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions to clients and for IBM's own advanced technology needs.   

  S  YSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES   

             Systems.    A range of general purpose and integrated systems designed and optimized for specific business, public and scientific computing
needs. These systems System z, converged System p and System x are typically the core technology in data centers that provide required infrastructure for business and
institutions. Also, these systems form the foundation for IBM's integrated offerings, such as IBM Smart Business Storage Cloud, IBM Smart Analytics Cloud, IBM Smart Analytics System and IBM
CloudBurst. IBM servers use both IBM and non-IBM microprocessor technology and operating systems. All IBM servers run Linux, a key open-source operating system.   

             Storage.    IBM provides data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of
digital information. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, data deduplication, availability and virtualization, and security and compliance. The
portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage systems and software, including the next-generation, ultra-scalable disk storage system XIV.   

             Retail Store Solutions.    Point-of-sale retail systems (network connected cash registers) as well as solutions which
connect them to other store systems.   

             Microelectronics.    Semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and storage products and for sale to external
clients.   

   Global Financing    facilitates clients' acquisition of IBM systems, software and services. Global Financing invests in financing assets, leverages with
debt and manages the associated risks with the objective of   

  5  

generating
consistently strong returns on equity. The primary focus on the company's offerings and clients mitigates many of the risks normally associated with a financing company. Global Financing
has the benefit of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services that are being financed. This combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage
two of the major risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated with financing.   

  G  LOBAL FINANCING CAPABILITIES   

             Client Financing.    Lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms generally between two and seven years. Internal
financing is predominantly in support of Global Services' long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable,
primarily for cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions.   

             Commercial Financing.    Short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and remarketers of IT products.   

             Remarketing.    The sale and lease of used equipment to new or existing clients both externally and internally. This equipment is primarily
sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily
represents used equipment that is sold or leased internally to the Systems and Technology and Global Services segments. The Systems and Technology segment may also sell the equipment that it purchases
from Global Financing to external clients.   

    IBM WORLDWIDE ORGANIZATIONS     

          The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:   

Sales and Distribution     
           Research, Development and Intellectual Property     
           Integrated Supply Chain    

Sales and Distribution      

          IBM has a significant global presence, operating in more than 170 countries, with an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution
of revenue. The company's Sales and Distribution organization manages a strong global footprint, with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering client value. Within these units,
client relationship professionals work with integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment teams to improve clients' business performance. These teams deliver value by
understanding the clients' businesses and needs, and then bring together capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions.   

          By
combining global expertise with local experience, IBM's geographic structure enables dedicated management focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align industry-skilled resources to serve clients' agendas. IBM extends capabilities to mid-market client segments by
leveraging industry skills with marketing,    ibm.com    and local Business Partner resources.   

In
2008, the company implemented a new growth markets organization to increase its focus on the emerging markets around the world that have market growth rates greater than the global
average countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Latin America. The company's major markets include the United States (U.S.), Canada, the United Kingdom (U.K.),
France,   

  6  

Germany,
Italy, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium, Finland, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Cyprus, Norway, Israel, Spain, the Bahamas and the Caribbean region.   

The
majority of IBM's revenue, excluding the company's original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six
sectors:   

Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets, Insurance     
           Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life Sciences     
           Industrial: Aerospace and Defense, Automotive, Chemical and Petroleum, Electronics     
           Distribution: Consumer Products, Retail, Travel and Transportation     
           Communications: Telecommunications, Media and Entertainment, Energy and Utilities    
           General Business: Mainly companies with fewer than 1,000 employees    

Research, Development and Intellectual Property      

          IBM's R D operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests approximately $6 billion for R D,
focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. As a result of innovations in these and other areas, IBM was once again awarded more U.S. patents in 2009 than any other
company, the 17th consecutive year IBM has been the patent leader. IBM's 4,914 patents in 2009 were the most U.S. patents ever awarded to one company in a single year. Consistent with
the shift in the company's business mix, approximately 70 percent of these patents were for software and services. The company will continue to actively seek intellectual property protection
for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its intellectual property leadership and promote innovation.   

          In
addition to producing world-class systems, software and technology products, IBM innovations are also a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company's clients through
its services businesses. The company's investments in R D also result in intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually. Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are
used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. While the company's various proprietary intellectual
property rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM
owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable terms
and conditions.   

     Integrated Supply Chain      

          Consistent with the company's work with clients to transform their supply chains for greater efficiency and responsiveness to global
market conditions, the company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain, thereby providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients.
IBM leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end
supply-chain processes, from procurement to logistics.   

          IBM
spends approximately $35 billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. The supply, manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment
operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories over time, improved response to
marketplace opportunities and external risks and converted fixed costs to variable costs. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved operations, sales force productivity and
processes.   

  7  

COMPETITION     

          The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, doing business in more than 170 countries. The company participates in the highly
competitive information technology (IT) industry, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall,
across its business segments, the company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide.   

The
markets for each of the company's business segments is characterized by aggressive competition among all types of competitors. Across its business, the company's principal methods of
competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to
clients; and, service and support. In order to maintain leadership in the IT industry, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and integrate. Over the past several years, the company has been
executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through internal investments and strategic
acquisitions. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments.   

          A
summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:   

     Global Services:      

          The services segments, GTS and GBS, operate in a highly competitive and continually evolving global market. GTS competes in strategic
outsourcing, business transformation outsourcing, integrated technology services and IT support services. GBS competes in consulting, system integration and application management services. The
principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, the ability to add value and the
time-to-value, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in the
services business include its global reach and scale, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise and infrastructure management, an ability to
deliver integrated solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide. The company competes with
broad based competitors including Accenture, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu and Hewlett-Packard Company (HP); India-based service providers including HCL, Infosys, Tata Consulting Services and
Wipro Technologies; and, many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.   

Software:      

          The enterprise management software market is highly competitive and the key competitive factors in this segment include: functionality,
ease of use, scalability, compliance with open standards and total cost of ownership. The company's leadership in these areas provides it with competitive advantages. The company's software business
includes middleware, operating systems and related software provided to all industry segments worldwide. The middleware portfolio is the broadest in the industry and it also covers both mainframe and
distributed computing environments. The depth and breadth of the company's software offerings, coupled with its global sales and technical support infrastructure differentiate the company's software
business from its competitors. In addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute to this segment's leadership. The company's
principal competitors in this segment include BMC Software, CA, Inc., Microsoft Corporation and Oracle Corporation. In addition, the company competes with smaller, niche competitors in specific
geographic or product markets worldwide.   

  8  

Systems and Technology:      

          The enterprise server and storage market is highly competitive and is characterized by ongoing technology innovation, with competition
focused on value, function and reliability, and new entrants leveraging technology to compete against traditional offerings. The company's principal competitors include Dell, Inc. (Dell), EMC
Corporation, HP and Sun Microsystems. The company's leadership in virtualization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and the ability of its systems platforms to leverage
the entire system, from the company's custom semiconductors through the software stack to increase efficiency and lower cost, provide the company with competitive advantages in this segment. In
addition, the company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's leadership.   

     Global Financing:      

          The Global Financing business provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. In
2009, the continued global financial credit crisis impacted both the client and commercial financing markets. The supply of credit remained tight and financial institutions continued to face increases
in loan losses, higher borrowing costs and liquidity challenges. Global Financing's access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The
key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service, contract flexibility, ease of doing business and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing
competes with three types of companies in providing financial services to IT customers: other captive financing companies such as Dell and HP, non-captive companies such as General
Electric Company and banks or financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment
market.   

    Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements     

          7 Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials delivered
to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current expectations of
future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes," "expects," "estimates,"
"intends," "plans," "projects," and
similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth
under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on pages 11 to 14 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as
they identify certain important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are
not exclusive and are in addition to other factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated
therein by reference.   

          The
following information is included in IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:   

          Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services pages 122 to 126.   

          Financial
information by geographic areas page 125.   

          Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R D activities page 103.   

          Financial
information regarding environmental activities pages 97 and 98.   

The
number of persons employed by the registrant page 56.   

          The
management discussion overview pages 19 and 20.   

          Available
information pages 132 and 133.   

  Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.   

  9  

Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 23, 2010):     

Age    
     
   Officer since    

Samuel J. Palmisano, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer(1)  

58  

1997  

Rodney C. Adkins, Senior Vice President, Systems and Technology Group  

51  

2007  

Colleen F. Arnold, Senior Vice President, Application Management Services  

52  

2010  

Michael E. Daniels, Senior Vice President, Global Technology Services  

55  

2005  

Jon C. Iwata, Senior Vice President, Marketing and Communications  

47  

2002  

James J. Kavanaugh, Vice President and Controller  

43  

2008  

John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, Research and Intellectual Property  

56  

2000  

R. Franklin Kern III, Senior Vice President, Global Business Services  

56  

2008  

Robert J. LeBlanc, Senior Vice President, Software Middleware Group  

51  

2010  

Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

56  

1998  

J. Randall MacDonald, Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

61  

2000  

Steven A. Mills, Senior Vice President, Software Group  

58  

2000  

Michael D. Rhodin, Senior Vice President, Software Solutions Group  

49  

2010  

Virginia M. Rometty, Senior Vice President, Global Sales and Distribution  

52  

2005  

Linda S. Sanford, Senior Vice President, Enterprise Transformation  

57  

2000  

Timothy S. Shaughnessy, Senior Vice President, Services Delivery  

52  

2004  

Robert C. Weber, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel  

59  

2006  

(1)    Member
of the Board of Directors.    

All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve until the next election of officers in conjunction with the annual meeting of the stockholders as provided in the
By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Robert C. Weber, has been an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.   

          Mr. Weber
was a partner at Jones Day, an international law firm, until joining IBM in 2006. He was with Jones Day for almost 30 years, and his career included counseling
corporations, individuals and boards of directors, as well as extensive experience in corporate derivative litigation, federal and state enforcement actions and commercial litigation.   

  10  

Item 1A. Risk Factors:            

             Downturn in Economic Environment and Corporate IT Spending Budgets could impact the Company's Business:    If overall demand for systems,
software and services decreases, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in corporate buying patterns, the company's revenue and profit could be impacted.   

The Company may not meet its Growth and Productivity Objectives under its Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration
Initiatives:    On an ongoing basis, IBM seeks to drive greater productivity, flexibility and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business processes and
functions to remain competitive and to enable scaling of resources in both emerging and more established geographical markets. These various initiatives may not yield their intended gains in quality,
productivity and enablement of rapid scaling, which may impact the company's ability to meet its growth and productivity objectives.   

             Failure of Innovation Initiatives could impact the Long-Term Success of the Company:    IBM has been moving away from
commoditized categories of the IT industry and into areas in which it can differentiate itself through innovation and by leveraging its investments in R D. If IBM is unable to continue its
cutting-edge innovation in the highly competitive IT industry, the company could fail in its ongoing efforts to maintain and increase its market share and its profit margins. In addition,
IBM has one of the strongest brand names in the world, and its brand and overall reputation could be negatively impacted by many factors, including if the company does not continue to be recognized
for its industry-leading technology and solutions. If the company's brand image is tarnished by negative perceptions, our ability to attract and retain customers could be impacted.   

Risks from Investing in Growth Opportunities could impact the Company's Business:    The company continues to invest significantly in growth
opportunities, including higher-value segments of enterprise computing and dozens of emerging countries, including Brazil, Russia, India and China, to drive revenue growth and market share gains.
Client adoption rates and viable economic models are uncertain in the high-value and rapidly-growing segments. In addition, as the company expands to capture emerging growth opportunities,
it needs to rapidly secure the appropriate mix of trained, skilled and experienced personnel. In emerging growth countries, the developing nature
presents potential political, social and economic risks from inadequate infrastructure, creditworthiness of customers and business partners, labor disruption and corruption, which could impact the
company's ability to meet its growth objectives and to deliver to its clients around the world.   

             IBM's Intellectual Property Portfolio may not prevent Competitive Offerings, and IBM may not be able to Obtain Necessary Licenses:    The
company's patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to the company's, nor can there be any
assurance that the resources invested by the company to protect its intellectual property will be sufficient or that the company's intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter
misappropriation or improper use of the company's technology. In addition, the company may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including
non-practicing entities. Also, there can be no assurances that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the future.   

             Breaches of Data Security could impact the Company's Business:    The company's products and services, as well as its internal systems and
processes, involve the storage and transmission of proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data, including personal information of employees, customers and others. Breaches in security
could expose the company, its customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, resulting in litigation and potential liability for the company, as well as the
loss of existing or potential customers and damage to the company's brand and reputation. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be
significant.   

  11  

The Company's Revenues for Particular Periods are Difficult to Predict:    IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the introduction of
new products and services, the length of the sales cycles, the structure of products and services contracts and the seasonality of technology purchases. As a result, the company's results are
difficult to predict. These factors historically have resulted in lower revenue in the first quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. In addition, the high volume of products ordered
at the end of each quarter, especially at the end of the fourth quarter, may affect IBM's ability to successfully ship all orders before the end of the quarter.   

             Due to the Company's Global Presence, its Business and Operations could be impacted by Local Legal, Economic, Political and Health
Conditions:    The company is a globally integrated entity, operating in over 170 countries worldwide and deriving more than sixty percent of its revenues from sales outside the
United States. Changes in the laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates, or inadequate enforcement of such laws or policies, could affect the company's business in that country
and the company's overall results of operations. The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic and political changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including
recessions, inflation and currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and local currency. In addition,
any widespread outbreak of an illness, pandemic or other local or global health issue, or any terrorist activities, could adversely affect customer demand and the company's operations and its ability
to source and deliver products and services to its customers.   

             The Company could incur Substantial Costs for Environmental Matters:    The company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the U.S. Superfund law. The company could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental
laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and competitive
position.   

             Tax Matters could impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition:    The company is subject to income taxes in both the
United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. IBM's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to,
income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the company's results of operations and
financial condition in future periods. In addition, IBM is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities. The
company regularly assesses the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes
from these continuous examinations will not have an adverse effect on the company's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.   

             The Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition could be negatively impacted by its U.S. and non-U.S. Pension
Plans:    Adverse equity market conditions and volatility in the credit markets may have an unfavorable impact on the value of the company's pension trust assets and its future
estimated pension liabilities. As a result, the company's financial results in any period could be negatively impacted. In addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the company
could be required to provide incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which could negatively impact the company's financial flexibility. Further, the company's results of
operations and financial results could be negatively impacted by premiums for mandatory pension insolvency insurance coverage outside the U.S. Premium increases can be significant due to the level of
insolvencies of unrelated companies in the country at issue. Currently, Canada, Germany, Luxembourg and the United Kingdom require that these premiums be paid directly by the company and not out of
plan assets,   

  12  

which
could negatively impact the company's earnings. IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information about potential impacts from pension funding and the use of certain assumptions
regarding pension matters.   

             Ineffective Internal Controls could impact the Company's Business and Operating Results:    The company's internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective
internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal
controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the company's business and operating results could
be harmed and the company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations.   

             The Company's Use of Accounting Estimates involves Judgment and could impact the Company's Financial Results:    The company's most critical
accounting estimates are described in the Management Discussion in IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, under "Critical Accounting Estimates." In addition, as discussed in note O,
"Contingencies and Commitments," in IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, the company makes certain estimates including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. Because by definition
these estimates and assumptions involve the use of judgment, actual financial results may differ.   

             The Company Depends on Skilled Personnel and could be impacted by the loss of Critical Skills:    Much of the future success of the company
depends on the continued service, availability and integrity of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff resources. Experienced personnel in the information technology industry are
in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of knowledge and skills as experienced workers leave the company.
In addition, as global opportunities and industry demand shifts, realignment and scaling of skilled resources may not be sufficiently rapid. Further, many of IBM's key personnel receive a total
compensation package that includes equity awards. New regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the company's use, and the value, of the company's equity awards,
putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation.   

             The Company's Business could be impacted by its Relationships with Critical Suppliers:    IBM's business employs a wide variety of
components, supplies, services and raw materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of the company's businesses rely on single or a limited number of suppliers. Changes
in the financial or business condition of these suppliers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring products to market. Further, the failure of the company's suppliers to
deliver components, supplies, services and raw materials in sufficient quantities and in a timely manner could adversely affect the company's business. In addition, any defective components, supplies
or materials, or inadequate services, received from suppliers could reduce the reliability of the company's products and services and harm the company's reputation.   

             The Company is exposed to Currency and Customer Financing Risks that could impact its Revenue and Business:    The company derives a
significant percentage of its revenues and costs from its affiliates operating in local currency environments, and those results are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S.
currencies and the U.S. dollar. Further, inherent in the company's customer financing business are risks related to the concentration of credit, client creditworthiness,
interest rate and currency fluctuations on the associated debt and liabilities, the determination of residual values and the financing of other than traditional IT assets. The company employs a number
of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of derivative financial instruments; derivatives involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty. In addition, there can be
no assurance that the company's efforts to manage its currency and customer financing risks will be successful.   

  13  

The Company's Financial Performance could be impacted by Changes in Market Liquidity Conditions and by Customer Credit Risk on
Receivables:    The company's financial performance is exposed to a wide variety of industry sector dynamics worldwide. The company's earnings and cash flows, as well as its
access to funding, could be negatively impacted by changes in market liquidity conditions. IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information about the company's liquidity position. The
company's client base includes many worldwide enterprises, from small and medium businesses to the world's largest organizations and governments, with a significant portion of the company's revenue
coming from global clients across many sectors. Most of the company's sales are on an open credit basis and the company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients' financial conditions. If the
company becomes aware of information related to the credit worthiness of a major customer, or, if future actual default rates on receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the
company may have to adjust its reserves for uncollectible receivables, which could affect the company's consolidated net income in the period the adjustments are made.   

             The Company's Reliance on Third Party Distribution Channels could impact its Business:    The company offers its products directly and
through a variety of third party distributors and resellers. Changes in the financial or business condition of these distributors and resellers could subject the company to losses and affect its
ability to bring its products to market. As the company moves into new areas, distributors and resellers may be unable to keep up with changes in technology and offerings, and the company may be
unable to fund and enable appropriate partners to achieve growth objectives.   

             Risks to the Company from Acquisitions and Alliances include Integration Challenges, Failure to Achieve Objectives, and the Assumption of
Liabilities:    The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions or enter into alliances from time to time. Acquisitions and alliances present significant
challenges and risks relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage acquisitions and alliances successfully. The related
risks include the company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings, as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the
assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired business.   

             Risk Factors Related to IBM Securities:    The company and its subsidiaries issue debt securities in the worldwide capital markets from time
to time, with a variety of different maturities and in different
currencies. The value of the company's debt securities fluctuates based on many factors, including the methods employed for calculating principal and interest, the maturity of the securities, the
aggregate principal amount of securities outstanding, the redemption features for the securities, the level, direction and volatility of interest rates, changes in exchange rates, exchange controls,
governmental and stock exchange regulations and other factors over which the company has little or no control. The company's ability to pay interest and repay the principal for its debt securities is
dependent upon its ability to manage its business operations, as well as the other risks described under this Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors." There can be no assurance that the company will
be able to manage any of these risks successfully.   

          The
company also issues its common stock from time to time in connection with various compensation plans, contributions to its pension plan and certain acquisitions. The market price of
IBM common stock is subject to significant volatility, due to other factors described under this Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors," as well as economic and geopolitical conditions generally,
trading volumes, speculation by the press or investment community about the company's financial condition, and other factors, many of which are beyond the company's control. Since the market price of
IBM's common stock fluctuates significantly, stockholders may not be able to sell the company's stock at attractive prices.   

In
addition, changes by any rating agency to the company's outlook or credit ratings can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both the company's debt and equity securities. The
company does not make a market in either its debt or equity securities and cannot provide any assurances with respect to the liquidity or value of such securities.   

  14  

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments:            

          Not applicable.   

Item 2. Properties:            

          At December 31, 2009, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the United States had aggregate floor space of
19 million square feet, of which 16 million was owned and 3 million was leased. Of these amounts, 3 million square feet was vacant and 1 million square feet was
being leased to non-IBM businesses. Similar facilities in 8 other countries totaled 6 million square feet, of which 2 million was owned and 4 million was
leased. Of these amounts, 1 million square feet was being leased to non-IBM businesses.   

          Although
improved production techniques, productivity gains and infrastructure reduction actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space, continuous maintenance and upgrading
of facilities is essential to maintain technological leadership, improve productivity and meet customer demand.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings:            

          Refer to note O, "Contingencies and Commitments," on pages 99 to 101 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which
is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders:            

Not applicable.   

PART II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities:   

          Refer
to pages 128, 132 and 133 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this
item.   

          IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. There were 543,807 common stockholders of record at February 10, 2010.   

          The
following table provides information relating to the company's repurchase of common stock for the fourth quarter of 2009.   

(1)    On
February 26, 2008, the Board of Directors authorized $15.0 billion in funds for use in the company's common stock repurchase program. This
authorization was fully utilized by November 2009. On April 28,    

15  

2009
and October 27, 2009, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $3.0 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, in funds for use in such program. In each case, the company
stated that it would repurchase shares on the open market or in private transactions depending on market conditions, and that it expects to use cash from operations for the repurchases. The common
stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. This table does not include shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in connection with cashless exercises of employee stock options or
shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee equity awards.   

Item 6. Selected Financial Data:            

Refer to pages 127 and 128 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:            

          Refer to pages 18 through 61 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk:            

          Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on pages 55 and 56 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.   

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:            

          Refer to pages 64 through 126 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to
the Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form 10-K.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure:   

          Not
applicable.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures:            

          The company's management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the
effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer
have concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   

          Refer
to "Report of Management" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on pages 62 and 63 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference. There has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to material affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information:            

          On February 23, 2010, IBM announced that Andrew N. Liveris has been elected to the IBM Board of Directors, effective
February 23, 2010. Mr. Liveris has also become a member of IBM's Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee. The company's compensatory and other arrangements for
non-management directors are set forth in the company's most recent Proxy Statement. In connection with Mr. Liveris' election, Article III, Section 2 of IBM's
By-laws was amended to increase the number of directors to fourteen, effective February 23, 2010. The full text of IBM's By-laws, as amended, is included as
Exhibit 3 to this report.   

  16  

PART III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Election of Directors for a Term of One Year," "General Information Committees
of the Board," "Audit Committee" and "Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to
Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 23, 2010)" on page 10 for additional information on the company's executive
officers.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information 2009 Director Compensation Narrative," "2009 Director
Compensation Table," "2009 Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "2009 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," "2009 Summary Compensation Table," "2009 Grants of Plan-Based Awards Table,"
"2009 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Narrative," "2009 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table," "2009 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table," "2009
Retention Plan Narrative," "2009 Retention Plan Table," "2009 Pension Benefits Narrative," "2009 Pension Benefits Table," "2009 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Narrative," "2009 Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Table," "2009 Potential Payments Upon Termination Narrative," "2009 Potential Payments Upon Termination Table," "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and
"2009 Report of the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters:            

          Refer to the information under the caption "Ownership of Securities Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" and
"Ownership of Securities Common Stock and Stock-Based Holdings of Directors and Executive Officers" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  17  

Equity Compensation Plan Information     

n/a
is not applicable   

  RSUs Restricted
Stock Units, including Retention Restricted Stock Units   

  PSUs Performance
Share Units   

  DCEAP
Shares Shares under the DCEAP (see plan description below)    

(1)    In
connection with 35 acquisition transactions, 1,122,425 additional options were outstanding at December 31, 2009 as a result of the company's
assumption of options granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these options was $76.39. The company has not made, and will not make, any future grants or awards of
equity securities under the plans of these acquired companies.
      (2)    The
numbers included for PSUs in column (a) above reflect the maximum number payout. Assuming target number payout, the number of securities to be
issued upon the exercise of PSUs for equity compensation plans approved by security holders is 1,898,885 and for equity compensation plans not approved by security holders is 1,577,852. For additional
information about PSUs, including payout calculations, refer to the information under "2009 Summary Compensation Table Narrative" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities
and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010.    

The
material features of each equity compensation plan under which equity securities are authorized for issuance that was adopted without stockholder approval are described below:   

    2001 LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE PLAN     

The 2001 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "2001 Plan") is used to fund awards for employees other than senior executives of
the company. Awards for senior executives of the company will continue   

  18  

to
be funded from the stockholder-approved 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "1999 Plan"). Otherwise, the provisions of the 2001 Plan are identical to the 1999 Plan, including the type
of awards that may be granted under the plan (stock options, restricted stock and unit awards and long-term performance incentive awards).   

The
2001 Plan is administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, and that Committee may delegate to officers of the company
certain of its duties, powers and authority. Payment of awards may be made in the form of cash, stock or combinations thereof and may be deferred with Committee approval. Awards are not transferable
or assignable except (i) by law, will or the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) as a result of the disability of the recipient, or (iii) with the approval of the Committee.   

          If
the employment of a participant terminates, other than as a result of the death or disability of a participant, all unexercised, deferred and unpaid Awards shall be canceled
immediately, unless the Award Agreement provides otherwise. In the event of the death of a participant or in the event a participant is deemed by the company to be disabled and eligible for benefits
under the terms of the IBM Long-Term Disability Plan (or any successor plan or similar plan of another employer), the participant's estate, beneficiaries or representative, as the case may
be, shall have the rights and duties of the participant under the applicable Award Agreement. In addition, unless the Award Agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel, rescind, suspend,
withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred Awards at any time if the participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the Award Agreement and the
Plan. In addition, Awards may be cancelled if the participant engages in any conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of the Company.   

    PWCC ACQUISITION LONG-TERM PERFORMANCE PLAN     

          The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan (the "PWCC Plan") was adopted by the Board of Directors in connection
with the Company's acquisition of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting ("PwCC") from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as
announced on October 1, 2002. The PWCC Plan has been and will continue to be used solely to fund awards for employees of PwCC who have come over to the company as a result of the acquisition.
Awards for senior executives of the company will not be funded from the PWCC Plan. The terms and conditions of the PWCC Plan are substantively identical to the terms and conditions of the 2001 Plan,
described above.   

    IBM DEFERRED COMPENSATION AND EQUITY AWARD PLAN     

          The IBM Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (the "DCEAP") was adopted in 1993. Under the DCEAP, non-management
directors receive Promised Fee Shares in connection with deferred annual retainer payments. Each Promised Fee Share is equal in value to one share of the company's common stock. Upon a director's
retirement or other completion of service as a director, all amounts deferred into Promised Fee Shares are payable in either cash and/or shares of the company's stock at the director's election. (For
additional information about the DCEAP, see the 2009 Director Compensation Narrative in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to
stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010).   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information Board of Directors" and "General
Information Certain Transactions and Relationships" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection
with   

  19  

the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010, which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Audit and
Non-Audit Fees" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

PART IV            

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules:            

(a)    The
following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.    Financial
statements from IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference:    

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 63).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (page 64).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 and 2008 (page 65).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (page 66).   

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 (pages 67 through 69).   

  Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 70 through 126).    

2.    Financial
statement schedule required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form:    

Page

Schedule 
Number    

26  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule.  

S-1  

II  
     
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.  

All
other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present, the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the Consolidated Financial
Statements or the notes thereto.    

3.    Exhibits:    

Reference Number per Item 601 of Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

(2)  
     
  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession.   

Not applicable  

(3)  
      
   Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.   

The Certificate of Incorporation of IBM is Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K filed April 27, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

20  

21  

Reference Number per Item 601 of Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

The IBM 2001 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-87708 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-102872 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-30424 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-31305 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1994 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 33-53777 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.5 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Forms of LTPP equity award agreements for (i) stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-settled restricted stock units, SARS, (ii) performance share units and (iii) retention
restricted stock unit awards. Such equity award agreement forms and the related terms and conditions document effective June 8, 2009 were filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, are hereby
incorporated by reference.*  

Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under the caption "General Information 2009 Director Compensation" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 27, 2010, are hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, contained in Registration Statement 33-60227 on Form S-8, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

22  

Reference Number per Item 601 of Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

The IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended effective October 28, 2008, was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Supplemental Executive Retention Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated through December 31, 2008, was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008,
is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated through January 1, 2010 (formerly the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan contained in Registration Statement No. 333-33692
on Form S-8), which amended and restated Plan is hereby incorporated by reference into such Registration Statement.*  

10.1  

The IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2008, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008 (formerly
the IBM Tax Deferred Savings Plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-09055 on Form S-8), is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Amendment No. 1 to the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, as approved September 11, 2009.*  

10.2  

Amendment No. 2 to the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, a compensatory plan, as approved November 16, 2009.*  

10.3  

The IBM 2003 Employees Stock Purchase Plan, contained in Registration Statement 333-104806 on Form S-8, as amended through April 1, 2005, which was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended March 31, 2005, is hereby incorporated by reference.   

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The $10,000,000,000 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of June 28, 2006, among International Business Machines Corporation, each Subsidiary Borrower, the several banks and other financial institutions from time to
time parties to the Credit Agreement, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent for the Lenders, and Citibank, N.A., as Syndication Agent, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated June 29, 2006, is hereby incorporated
by reference.   

(11)  
      
   Statement re computation of per share earnings  

The statement re computation of per share earnings is note R, "Earnings Per Share of Common Stock," on page 104 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, and is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

23  

*    Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      **    The
Performance Graphs, set forth on pages 129 and 130 of IBM's 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders, are deemed to be furnished but not filed.    

24  

SIGNATURES            

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION    (Registrant)  

By:  
      
   /s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano     Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 23, 2010   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano  
     
      Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer  
     
  February 23, 2010  

/s/ MARK LOUGHRIDGE 

Mark Loughridge  
     
      Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  
     
      February 23, 2010  

/s/ JAMES J. KAVANAUGH 

James J. Kavanaugh  
     
      Vice President and Controller  
     
      February 23, 2010  

Cathleen Black           
William R. Brody           
Michael L. Eskew           
Shirley Ann Jackson             
W. James McNerney, Jr.             
Taizo Nishimuro             
James W. Owens             
Joan E. Spero           
Sidney Taurel          

Director             
Director             
Director             
Director             
Director             
Director           
Director           
Director           
Director          

By:             

/s/ Andrew Bonzani 

Andrew Bonzani     Attorney-in-fact    
February 23, 2010 

25  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE            

  To
the Stockholders and Board of Directors of 
International Business Machines Corporation:   

          Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 23, 2010
appearing in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders of International Business Machines Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial
Statement Schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.   

/s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
New York, New York 
February 23, 2010   

  26  

SCHEDULE II            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES   For the Years Ended December 31:   (Dollars in Millions)

*    Additions
for Allowance for Doubtful Accounts and Allowance for Inventory Losses are charged to expense and cost accounts, respectively, while Revenue Based
Provisions are charged to revenue accounts.
      **    Primarily
comprises currency translation adjustments.    

S-1  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   

Item 1A. Risk Factors   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
  Item 2. Properties   
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
  Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
 
  PART II   
 
  Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
  Item 9B. Other Information   
 
  PART III   
 
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
 
  PART IV   
 
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   

SIGNATURES   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE   

SCHEDULE II   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES For the Years Ended December 31: (Dollars in Millions)   

<EX-3>
 2
 a2195966zex-3.htm
 EXHIBIT 3

EXHIBIT 3   

BY-LAWS  

of  

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION  

Adopted April 29, 1958  

As Amended Through  

February 23, 2010  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

ARTICLE I   Definitions  

1  

ARTICLE II   MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS  

SECTION  1.  

Place of Meetings  

1  

SECTION 2.  

Annual Meetings  

1  

SECTION  3.  

Special Meetings  

2  

SECTION  4.  

Notice of Meetings  

2  

SECTION  5.  

Quorum  

2  

SECTION  6.  

Organization  

3  

SECTION  7.  

Items of Business  

3  

SECTION  8.  

Voting  

5  

SECTION  9.  

List of Stockholders  

5  

SECTION 10.  

Inspectors of Election  

5  

ARTICLE III   BOARD OF DIRECTORS  

SECTION  1.  

General Powers  

6  

SECTION  2.  

Number; Qualifications; Election; Term of Office  

6  

SECTION  3.  

Place of Meetings  

6  

SECTION  4.  

First Meeting  

6  

SECTION  5.  

Regular Meetings  

6  

SECTION  6.  

Special Meetings  

7  

SECTION  7.  

Notice of Meetings  

7  

SECTION  8.  

Quorum and Manner of Acting  

7  

SECTION  9.  

Organization  

7  

SECTION 10.  

Resignations  

7  

SECTION 11.  

Vacancies  

8  

SECTION 12.  

Retirement of Directors  

8  

ARTICLE IV   EXECUTIVE AND OTHER
  COMMITTEES  

SECTION  1.  

Executive Committee  

8  

SECTION  2.  

Powers of the Executive Committee  

9  

SECTION  3.  

Meetings of the Executive Committee  

9  

SECTION  4.  

Quorum and Manner of Acting of the Executive Committee  

9  

SECTION  5.  

Other Committees  

9  

SECTION  6.  

Changes in Committees; Resignations; Removals; Vacancies  

10  

i    

ii    

BY-LAWS  

OF  

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION  

ARTICLE I  

DEFINITIONS  

In these By-laws, and for all purposes hereof, unless there be
something in the subject or context inconsistent therewith:  

(a)  Corporation  shall mean International Business Machines
Corporation.  

(b)  Certificate of Incorporation  shall mean the restated
Certificate of Incorporation as filed on May 27, 1992, together with any
and all amendments and subsequent restatements thereto.  

(c)   Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  

(d)  stockholders  shall mean the stockholders of the Corporation.  

(e)  Chairman of the Board ,  Vice Chairman of the Board ,
 Chairman of the Executive Committee ,  Chief Executive Officer,   Chief
Financial Officer ,  Chief Accounting Officer ,  President ,  Executive Vice
President ,  Senior Vice President ,  Vice President ,  Treasurer ,
 Secretary , or  Controller , as the case may be, shall mean the person at any
given time occupying the particular office with the Corporation.  

ARTICLE II  

MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS  

SECTION 1.  Place of
Meetings.  Meetings of the stockholders
of the Corporation shall be held at such place either within or outside the
State of New York as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or specified
or fixed in the notice of any such meeting.  

SECTION 2.  Annual
Meetings.  The annual meeting of the
stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the
transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting
shall be held on the last Tuesday of April of each year, if not a legal
holiday, or, if such day shall be a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding
day not a legal holiday. If any annual meeting shall not be held on the day
designated herein, or if the directors to be elected at such annual meeting
shall not have been elected thereat or at any adjournment thereof, the Board
shall forthwith call a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of
directors to be held as soon thereafter as convenient and give notice thereof
as provided in these By-laws in respect  

1    

of the notice of an annual meeting of the stockholders. At such special
meeting the stockholders may elect the directors and transact other business
with the same force and effect as at an annual meeting of the stockholders duly
called and held.  

SECTION 3.  Special
Meetings.  Special meetings of the
stockholders, unless otherwise provided by law, may be called at any time by
the Chairman of the Board or by the Board,    and shall be called by the Board upon written request
delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation by the holder(s) with the
power to vote and dispose of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of the
Corporation.  Such request shall be
signed by each such holder, stating the number of shares owned by each holder,
and shall indicate the purpose of the requested meeting.  In addition, any stockholder(s) requesting
a special meeting shall promptly provide any other information reasonably
requested by the Corporation.  

SECTION 4.  Notice of
Meetings.  Notice of each meeting of the
stockholders, annual or special, shall be given in the name of the Chairman of
the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President or
the Secretary.  Such notice shall state
the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the date and hour
when and the place where it is to be held. A copy thereof shall be duly
delivered or transmitted to all stockholders of record entitled to vote at such
meeting, and all stockholders of record who, by reason of any action proposed
to be taken at such meeting, would be entitled to have their stock appraised if
such action were taken, not less than ten or more than sixty days before the
day on which the meeting is called to be held. If mailed, such copy shall be
directed to each stockholder at the address listed on the record of
stockholders of the Corporation, or if the stockholder shall have filed with
the Secretary a written request that notices be mailed to some other address,
it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request. Nevertheless,
notice of any meeting of the stockholders shall not be required to be given to
any stockholder who shall waive notice thereof as hereinafter provided in Article IX
of these By-laws. Except when expressly required by law, notice of any
adjourned meeting of the stockholders need not be given nor shall publication
of notice of any annual or special meeting thereof be required.  

SECTION 5.  Quorum.  Except as otherwise provided by law, at all
meetings of the stockholders, the presence of holders of record of a majority
of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation having voting power, in
person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, shall be necessary
to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a
quorum at any such meeting or any adjournment or adjournments thereof, a
majority in voting interest of those present in person or represented by proxy
and entitled to vote thereat, or, in the absence of all the stockholders, any
officer entitled to preside at, or to act as secretary of, such meeting, may
adjourn such meeting from time to time without further notice, other than by
announcement at the meeting at which such adjournment shall be taken, until a
quorum shall be present thereat. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum
shall be present any business may be transacted which might have been
transacted at the meeting as originally called.  

2    

SECTION  6. 
Organization.  At each meeting of
the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman
of the Board, the President, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and
the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or if the Chairman of the Board,
the President, and all Vice Chairmen of the Board shall be absent therefrom, an
Executive Vice President, or if the Chairman of the Board, the President, all
Vice Chairmen of the Board and all Executive Vice Presidents shall be absent
therefrom, a Senior Vice President shall act as chairman. The Secretary, or, if
the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting or unable to act, the person
whom the Chairman of such meeting shall appoint secretary of such meeting shall
act as secretary of such meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  

SECTION  7.   Items of
Business.  The items of business at all
meetings of the stockholders shall be, insofar as applicable, as follows:  

Call to order.  

Proof of notice of meeting or of waiver thereof.  

Appointment of inspectors of election, if necessary.  

A quorum being present.  

Reports.  

Election of directors proposed by the Corporation s Board of
  Directors, as set       forth in the Corporation s
  proxy statement.    

Other business specified in the notice of the meeting.  

Voting.  

Adjournment.  

Any items of business not referred to in the foregoing may be taken up
at the meeting as the chairman of the meeting shall determine.  

No other business
shall be transacted at any annual meeting of stockholders, except business as
may be: (i) specified in the notice of meeting (including stockholder
proposals included in the Corporation s proxy materials under Rule 14a-8
of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), (ii) otherwise
brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or
(iii) a proper subject for the meeting which is timely submitted by a
stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting who complies
fully with the notice requirements set forth below.  

3    

For business to be
properly submitted by a stockholder before any annual meeting under
subparagraph (iii) above, a stockholder must give timely notice in writing
of such business to the Secretary of the Corporation.  To be considered timely, a stockholder s
notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of
the Corporation not less than 120 calendar days nor more than 150 calendar days
before the date of the Corporation s proxy statement released to stockholders
in connection with the prior year s annual meeting.  

However, if no
annual meeting was held in the previous year, or if the date of the applicable
annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the date contemplated
at the time of the previous year s proxy statement, a stockholder s notice must
be received by the Secretary not later than 60 days before the date the
Corporation commences mailing of its proxy materials in connection with the
applicable annual meeting.  

A stockholder s
notice to the Secretary to submit business to an annual meeting of stockholders
shall set forth: (i) the name and address of the stockholder, (ii) the
number of shares of stock held of record and beneficially by such stockholder, (iii) the
name in which all such shares of stock are registered on the stock transfer
books of the Corporation, (iv) a representation that the stockholder
intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business
specified in such notice, (v) a brief description of the business desired
to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any
resolutions intended to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for
conducting such business at the annual meeting, (vi) any personal or other
material interest of the stockholder in the business to be submitted,  and (vii) all other information relating
to the proposed business which may be required to be disclosed under applicable
law.   In addition, a stockholder seeking
to submit such business at the meeting shall promptly provide any other
information reasonably requested by the Corporation.  

The chairman of
the meeting shall determine all matters relating to the efficient conduct of
the meeting, including, but not limited to, the items of business, as well as
the maintenance of order and decorum. The chairman shall, if the facts warrant,
determine and declare that any putative business was not properly brought
before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 7,
in which case such business shall not be transacted.  

Notwithstanding
the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, a stockholder who seeks to
have any proposal included in the Corporation s proxy materials shall comply
with the requirements of Rule 14a-8 under Regulation 14A of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

4    

SECTION 8.  Voting.  Except as otherwise provided by law, each
holder of record of shares of stock of the Corporation having voting power
shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to one vote for every
share of such stock standing in the stockholder s name on the record of
stockholders of the Corporation:  

(a) on the date fixed pursuant to the provisions of Section 5
of Article VII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination
of the stockholders who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting, or  

(b) if such record date shall not have been so fixed, then at the
close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such
meeting shall have been given, or  

(c) if such record date shall not have been so fixed and if no
notice of such meeting shall have been given, then at the time of the call to
order of such meeting.  

Any vote on stock of the Corporation at any meeting of the stockholders
may be given by the stockholder of record entitled thereto in person or by
proxy appointed by such stockholder or by the stockholder s attorney thereunto
duly authorized and delivered or transmitted to the secretary of such meeting
at or prior to the time designated in the order of business for turning in
proxies. At all meetings of the stockholders at which a quorum shall be
present, all matters (except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate
of Incorporation or these By-laws) shall be decided by the vote of a majority
in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or represented by
proxy and entitled to vote thereat. 
Unless required by law, or determined by the chairman of the meeting to
be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by
ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by the
stockholder s proxy as such, if there be such proxy.  

SECTION 9.  List of
Stockholders.  A list, certified by the
Secretary, of the stockholders of the Corporation entitled to vote shall be
produced at any meeting of the stockholders upon the request of any stockholder
of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of applicable law, the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws.  

SECTION  10.   Inspectors of
Election.   Prior to the holding of each
annual or special meeting of the stockholders, two inspectors of election to
serve thereat shall be appointed by the Board, or, if the Board shall not have
made such appointment, by the Chairman of the Board. If there shall be a
failure to appoint inspectors, or if, at any such meeting, any inspector so
appointed shall be absent or shall fail to act or the office shall become
vacant, the chairman of the meeting may, and at the request of a stockholder
present in person and entitled to vote at such meeting shall, appoint such
inspector or inspectors of election, as the case may be, to act thereat. The inspectors
of election so appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before
entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be sworn faithfully to
execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting, with strict impartiality and
according to the best of their ability, and the oath so taken shall be
subscribed by them. Such inspectors of election shall take charge of the  

5    

polls, and, after the voting on any question, shall make a certificate
of the results of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of
director shall act as an inspector of an election of directors. Inspectors need
not be stockholders.  

ARTICLE III  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS  

SECTION 1.  General
Powers.  The business and affairs of the
Corporation shall be managed by the Board. The Board may exercise all such
authority and powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things
as are not by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, directed
or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.  

SECTION 2.  Number;
Qualifications; Election; Term of Office. 
The number of directors of the Corporation shall be fourteen, but the
number thereof may be increased to not more than twenty-five, or decreased to not
less than nine, by amendment of these By-laws. The directors shall be elected
at the annual meeting of the stockholders. At each meeting of the stockholders
for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, the vote required
for election of a director shall, except in a contested election, be the
affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such
nominee.  In a contested election, a
nominee receiving a plurality of the votes cast at such election shall be
elected.  An election shall be considered
to be contested if, as of the record date for such meeting, there are more
nominees for election than positions on the Board to be filled by election at
the meeting.  Each director shall hold
office until the annual meeting of the stockholders which shall be held next
after the election of such director and until a successor shall have been duly
elected and qualified, or until death, or until the director shall have
resigned as hereinafter provided in Section 10 of this Article III.  

SECTION 3.  Place of
Meetings.  Meetings of the Board shall be
held at such place either within or outside State of New York as may from time
to time be fixed by the Board or specified or fixed in the notice of any such
meeting.  

SECTION 4.  First Meeting.  The Board shall meet for the purpose of
organization, the election of officers and the transaction of other business,
on the same day the annual meeting of stockholders is held. Notice of such
meeting need not be given. Such meeting may be held at any other time or place
which shall be specified in a notice thereof given as hereinafter provided in Section 7
of this Article III.  

SECTION 5.  Regular
Meetings.  Regular meetings of the Board
shall be held at times and dates fixed by the Board or at such other times and
dates as the Chairman of the Board shall determine and as shall be specified in
the notice of such meetings. Notice of regular meetings of the Board need not
be given except as otherwise required by law or these By-laws.  

6    

SECTION 6.  Special
Meetings.  Special meetings of the Board
may be called by the Chairman of the Board.  

SECTION 7.  Notice of
Meetings.  Notice of each special meeting
of the Board (and of each regular meeting for which notice shall be required)
shall be given by the Secretary as hereinafter provided in this Section 7,
in which notice shall be stated the time, place and, if required by law or
these By-laws, the purposes of such meeting. Notice of each such meeting shall
be mailed, postage prepaid, to each director, by first-class mail, at least
four days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or shall be sent
by facsimile transmission or comparable medium, or be delivered personally or
by telephone, at least twenty-four hours before the time at which such meeting
is to be held. Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any director who
shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article IX of these By-laws. Any
meeting of the Board shall be a legal meeting without notice thereof having been
given, if all the directors of the Corporation then holding office shall be
present thereat.  

SECTION 8.  Quorum and
Manner of Acting.  A majority of the
Board shall be present in person at any meeting of the Board in order to
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting.
Participation in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar
communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to
hear each other shall constitute presence in person at a meeting. Except as
otherwise expressly required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation and
except also as specified in Section 1, Section 5, and Section 6
of Article IV, in Section 3 of Article V and in Article XII
of these By-laws, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting
at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. In the absence of a
quorum at any meeting of the Board, a majority of the directors present thereat
may adjourn such meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present
thereat. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. At any adjourned
meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which
might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The directors
shall act only as a Board and the individual directors shall have no power as
such.  

SECTION  9.  
Organization.   At each meeting of
the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or in the case of the Chairman s absence
therefrom, the President, or in the case of the President s absence therefrom,
a Vice Chairman, or in the case of the absence of all such persons, another
director chosen by a majority of directors present, shall act as chairman of
the meeting and preside thereat. The Secretary, or if the Secretary shall be absent
from such meeting, any person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary
of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  

SECTION 10.  Resignations.  

(a) Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by
giving written notice of resignation to the Board or the Chairman of the Board
or the Secretary. Subject to Section 10(b), any such resignation shall
take effect at the time specified therein, or if the time when it shall become
effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall take  

7    

effect immediately upon its receipt; and unless otherwise specified
therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it
effective.  

(b) In an
uncontested election, any incumbent nominee for director who does not receive
an affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such
nominee shall promptly tender his or her resignation after such election.  The independent directors of the Board,
giving due consideration to the best interests of the Corporation and its
stockholders, shall evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances, and shall
make a decision, within 90 days after the election, on whether to accept the
tendered resignation.  Any director who
tenders a resignation pursuant to this provision shall not participate in the
Board s decision. The Board will promptly disclose publicly its decision and,
if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation.  

SECTION 11.  Vacancies.  Any vacancy in the Board, whether arising
from death, resignation, an increase in the number of directors or any other
cause, may be filled by the Board.  

SECTION 12.  Retirement of
Directors. The Board may prescribe a retirement policy for directors on or
after reaching a certain age, provided, however, that such retirement shall not
cut short the annual term for which any director shall have been elected by the
stockholders.  

ARTICLE IV  

EXECUTIVE AND OTHER COMMITTEES  

SECTION 1.  Executive
Committee.  The Board, by resolution
adopted by a majority of the Board, may designate not less than four of the
directors then in office to constitute an Executive Committee, each member of
which unless otherwise determined by resolution adopted by a majority of the
whole Board, shall continue to be a member of such Committee until the annual
meeting of the stockholders which shall be held next after designation as a
member of such Committee or until the earlier termination as a director. The
Chief Executive Officer shall always be designated as a member of the Executive
Committee. The Board may by resolution appoint one member as the Chairman of
the Executive Committee who shall preside at all meetings of such Committee. In
the absence of said Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer shall preside at all
such meetings. In the absence of both the Chairman of the Executive Committee
and the Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all
such meetings. In the absence of the Chairman of the Executive Committee and
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Board, the President shall
preside at all such meetings. In the absence of all such persons, a majority of
the members of the Executive Committee present shall choose a chairman to
preside at such meetings. The Secretary, or if the Secretary shall be absent
from such meeting, any person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary
of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  

8    

SECTION 2.  Powers of the
Executive Committee.  To the extent
permitted by law, the Executive Committee may exercise all the powers of the
Board in the management of specified matters where such authority is delegated
to it by the Board, and also, to the extent permitted by law, the Executive
Committee shall have, and may exercise, all the powers of the Board in the
management of the business and affairs of the Corporation (including the power
to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may
require it; but excluding the power to appoint a member of the Executive
Committee) in such manner as the Executive Committee shall deem to be in the
best interests of the Corporation and not inconsistent with any prior specific
action of the Board. An act of the Executive Committee taken within the scope
of its authority shall be an act of the Board. The Executive Committee shall
render in the form of minutes a report of its several acts at each regular
meeting of the Board and at any other time when so directed by the Board.  

SECTION 3.  Meetings of the
Executive Committee.  Regular meetings of
the Executive Committee shall be held at such times, on such dates and at such
places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of the Executive
Committee, of which regular meetings notice need not be given, or as shall be
fixed by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or in the absence of the
Chairman of the Executive Committee the Chief Executive Officer and specified
in the notice of such meeting. Special meetings of the Executive Committee may
be called by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or by the Chief Executive
Officer. Notice of each such special meeting of the Executive Committee (and of
each regular meeting for which notice shall be required), stating the time and
place thereof shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each member of the Executive
Committee, by first-class mail, at least four days before the day on which such
meeting is to be held, or shall be sent by facsimile transmission or comparable
medium, or be delivered personally or by telephone, at least twenty-four hours
before the time at which such meeting is to be held; but notice need not be
given to a member of the Executive Committee who shall waive notice thereof as
provided in Article IX of these By-laws, and any meeting of the Executive
Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been
given, if all the members of such Committee shall be present thereat.  

SECTION 4.  Quorum and
Manner of Acting of the Executive Committee. 
Four members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum for
the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the members of the
Executive Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum shall be present
shall be the act of the Executive Committee. Participating in a meeting by
means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing
all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute
presence at a meeting of the Executive Committee. The members of the Executive
Committee shall act only as a committee and individual members shall have no
power as such.  

SECTION 5.  Other
Committees.  The Board may, by resolution
adopted by a majority of the Board, designate members of the Board to constitute
other committees, which shall have, and may exercise, such powers as the Board
may by resolution delegate to them, and shall in each case consist of such
number of directors as the  

9    

Board may determine; provided, however, that each such committee shall
have at least three directors as members thereof. Such a committee may either
be constituted for a specified term or may be constituted as a standing
committee which does not require annual or periodic reconstitution. A majority
of all the members of any such committee may determine its action and its
quorum requirements and may fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the
Board shall otherwise provide. Participating in a meeting by means of a
conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons
participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence at a
meeting of such other committees.  

In addition to the foregoing, the Board may, by resolution adopted by a
majority of the Board, create a committee of indeterminate membership and
duration and not subject to the limitations as to the membership, quorum and
manner of meeting and acting prescribed in these By-laws, which committee, in
the event of a major disaster or catastrophe or national emergency which
renders the Board incapable of action by reason of the death, physical
incapacity or inability to meet of some or all of its members, shall have, and
may exercise all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and
affairs of the Corporation (including, without limitation, the power to
authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may
require it and the power to fill vacancies in the Board). An act of such committee
taken within the scope of its authority shall be an act of the Board.  

SECTION 6.  Changes in
Committees; Resignations; Removals; Vacancies. 
The Board shall have power, by resolution adopted by a majority of the
Board, at any time to change or remove the members of, to fill vacancies in,
and to discharge any committee created pursuant to these By-laws, either with
or without cause. Any member of any such committee may resign at any time by
giving written notice to the Board or the Chairman of the Board or the
Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of such notice or at
any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein,
acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any
vacancy in any committee, whether arising from death, resignation, an increase
in the number of committee members or any other cause, shall be filled by the
Board in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for the original appointment of
the members of such committee.  

ARTICLE V  

OFFICERS  

SECTION 1.  Number and
Qualifications. The officers of the Corporation shall include the Chairman of
the Board, and may include one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, the
President, one or more Vice Presidents (one or more of whom may be designated
as Executive Vice Presidents or as Senior Vice Presidents or by other
designations), the Treasurer, the Secretary and the Controller.  Officers shall be elected from time to time
by the Board, each to hold office until a successor shall have been duly
elected and shall have qualified, or until death, or until resignation as
hereinafter  

10    

provided in Section 2 of this Article V, or until removed as
hereinafter provided in Section 3 of this Article V.  

SECTION  2.  
Resignations.   Any officer of the
Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to
the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the
Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified
therein, or, if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified
therein, then it shall become effective upon its receipt; and, unless otherwise
specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to
make it effective.  

SECTION  3.  Removal.  Any officer of the Corporation may be
removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by a resolution adopted by
a majority of the Board at any meeting of the Board.  

SECTION  4.  Vacancies.  A vacancy in any office, whether arising from
death, resignation, removal or any other cause, may be filled for the unexpired
portion of the term of office which shall be vacant, in the manner prescribed
in these By-laws for the regular election or appointment to such office.  

SECTION  5.  Chairman of the
Board.  The Chairman of the Board shall,
if present, preside at each meeting of the stockholders and of the Board and
shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the
Board. The Chairman may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of
the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII
of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all
deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the
Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall
be expressly delegated by the Board or these By- laws to some other officer or
agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be
signed, executed and delivered; and affix the seal of the Corporation to any
instrument which shall require it. The Chairman of the Board, when there is no
President or in the absence or incapacity of the President, shall perform all
the duties and functions and exercise all the powers of the President.  

SECTION 6.  Vice Chairman of
the Board. Each Vice Chairman of the Board shall assist the Chairman of the
Board and have such other duties as may be assigned by the Board or the
Chairman of the Board. The Vice Chairman may sign certificates representing
shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1
of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of
the Corporation all deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments
authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or
delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to
some officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law
otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered; and affix the seal of the
Corporation to any instrument which shall require it.  

11    

SECTION  7.  President.  The President shall perform all such duties
as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board.
The President may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the
Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of
these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all
deeds mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board,
except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be
expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to some other officer or
agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be
signed, executed and delivered, and affix the seal of the Corporation to any
instrument which shall require it; and, in general, perform all duties incident
to the office of President. The President shall in the absence or incapacity of
the Chairman of the Board, perform all the duties and functions and exercise
all the powers of the Chairman of the Board.  

SECTION  8.   Designated
Officers.   (a)  Chief Executive
Officer.  Either the Chairman of the
Board, or the President, as the Board of Directors may designate, shall be the
Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The officer so designated shall
have, in addition to the powers and duties applicable to the office set forth
in Section 5 or 7 of this Article V, general and active supervision
over the business and affairs of the Corporation and over its several officers,
agents, and employees, subject, however, to the control of the Board. The Chief
Executive Officer shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are
carried into effect, be an ex officio member of all committees of the Board
(except the Audit Committee, the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee,
and committees specifically empowered to fix or approve the Chief Executive
Officer s compensation or to grant or administer bonus, option or other similar
plans in which the Chief Executive Officer is eligible to participate), and, in
general, shall perform all duties incident to the position of Chief Executive
Officer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the
Board.    (b) Other Designated
Officers.  The Board of Directors may
designate officers to serve as Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting
Officer and other such designated positions and to fulfill the responsibilities
of such designated positions in addition to their duties as officers as set
forth in this Article V.  

SECTION 9.  Executive Vice
Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents. Each Executive and
Senior Vice President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be
assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the
Board or the President. Each Vice President shall perform all such duties as
from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or
a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or a Senior Vice
President. Any Vice President may sign certificates representing shares of
stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII
of these By-laws.  

12    

SECTION 10.  Treasurer. 
The Treasurer shall:  

(a) have charge and custody of, and be responsible for, all the
funds and securities of the Corporation, and may invest the same in any
securities, may open, maintain and close accounts for effecting any and all
purchase, sale, investment and lending transactions in securities of any and
all kinds for and on behalf of the Corporation or any employee pension or
benefit plan fund or other fund established by the Corporation, as may be
permitted by law;  

(b) keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements
in books belonging to the Corporation;  

(c) deposit all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the
Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board or the
Executive Committee;  

(d) receive, and give receipts for, moneys due and payable to the
Corporation from any source whatsoever;  

(e) disburse the funds of the Corporation and supervise the
investment of its funds, taking proper vouchers therefor;  

(f) render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an
account of all transactions as Treasurer; and  

(g) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of
Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the
Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the
President or an Executive or Senior Vice President.  

SECTION 11.  Secretary.  The Secretary shall:  

(a) keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for the
purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the Executive Committee and
other committees of the Board and the stockholders;  

(b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the
provisions of these By-laws and as required by law;  

(c) be custodian of the records and the seal of the Corporation
and affix and attest the seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation and
affix and attest the seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of
the Corporation under its seal;  

(d) see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and
other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly
kept and filed; and  

(e) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of
Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the
Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the
President or an Executive or Senior Vice President.  

13    

SECTION  12. 
Controller.  The Controller shall:  

(a) have control of all the books of account of the Corporation;  

(b) keep a true and accurate record of all property owned by it,
of its debts and of its revenues and expenses;  

(c) keep all accounting records of the Corporation (other than the
accounts of receipts and disbursements and those relating to the deposits of
money and other valuables of the Corporation, which shall be kept by the
Treasurer);  

(d) render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an
account of the financial condition of the Corporation; and  

(e) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of
Controller and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the
Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the
President or an Executive or Senior Vice President.  

SECTION 13. 
Compensation.  The compensation of
the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board;
provided, however, that the Board may delegate to a committee the power to fix
or approve the compensation of any officers. An officer of the Corporation
shall not be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of being also a
director of the Corporation; but any such officer who shall also be a director
shall not have any vote in the determination of the amount of compensation paid
to such officer.  

ARTICLE VI  

CONTRACTS, CHECKS, DRAFTS, BANK ACCOUNTS, ETC.  

SECTION 1.  Execution of
Contracts.  Except as otherwise required
by law or these By-laws, any contract or other instrument may be executed and
delivered in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by any officer
(including any assistant officer) of the Corporation. The Board or the
Executive Committee may authorize any agent or employee to execute and deliver
any contract or other instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation,
and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the
Board or such Committee, as the case may be, may by resolution determine.  

SECTION 2.  Loans.  Unless the Board shall otherwise determine,
the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or
any Vice President, acting together with the Treasurer or the Secretary, may
effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust
company or other institution, or from any firm, corporation or individual, and
for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes,
bonds or other certificates or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation,
but in making such loans or advances no officer or officers shall  

14    

mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or transfer any securities or other
property of the Corporation, except when authorized by resolution adopted by
the Board.  

SECTION 3.  Checks, Drafts,
etc.  All checks, drafts, bills of
exchange or other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the
Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the
Corporation, shall be signed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by
such persons and in such manner as shall from time to time be authorized by the
Board or the Executive Committee or authorized by the Treasurer  acting together with either the General
Manager of an operating unit or a nonfinancial Vice President of the
Corporation, which authorization may be general or confined to specific
instances.  

SECTION 4.  Deposits.  All funds of the Corporation not otherwise
employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation
in such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board or the
Executive Committee may from time to time designate or as may be designated by
any officer or officers of the Corporation to whom such power of designation may
from time to time be delegated by the Board or the Executive Committee. For the
purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the
Corporation, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are
payable to the order of the Corporation may be endorsed, assigned and delivered
by any officer, employee or agent of the Corporation.  

SECTION 5.  General and
Special Bank Accounts.  The Board or the
Executive Committee may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of
general and special bank accounts with such banks, trust companies or other
depositaries as the Board or the Executive Committee may designate or as may be
designated by any officer or officers of the Corporation to whom such power of
designation may from time to time be delegated by the Board or the Executive
Committee. The Board or the Executive Committee may make such special rules and
regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the
provisions of these By-laws, as it may deem expedient.  

SECTION 6. 
Indemnification.  The Corporation
shall, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law as in effect at any
time, indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to an action
or proceeding whether civil or criminal (including an action or proceeding by
or in the right of the Corporation or any other corporation of any type or
kind, domestic or foreign, or any partnership, joint venture, trust, employee
benefit plan or other enterprise, for which any director or officer of the
Corporation served in any capacity at the request of the Corporation), by
reason of the fact that such person or such person s testator or intestate was
a director or officer of the Corporation, or served such other corporation,
partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise in
any capacity, against judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and
reasonable expenses, including attorneys  fees actually and necessarily
incurred as a result of such action or proceeding, or any appeal therein. Such
indemnification shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be
paid advances of any expenses incurred by such person in connection with such
action, suit or proceeding, consistent with the provisions of applicable law in
effect at any time.  

15    

Indemnification shall be deemed to be  permitted  within the meaning of
the first sentence hereof if it is not expressly prohibited by applicable law
as in effect at the time.  

ARTICLE VII  

SHARES  

SECTION 1.  Stock
Certificates.  The shares of the
Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated
shares.  Each owner of stock of the
Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as shall be
approved by the Board, certifying the number of shares of stock of the
Corporation owned.  To the extent that
shares are represented by certificates, such certificates of stock shall be
signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board or a Vice
Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Secretary
and sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which seal may be a facsimile,
engraved or printed); provided, however, that where any such certificate is signed
by a registrar, other than the Corporation or its employee, the signatures of
the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, the
Secretary, and transfer agent or a transfer clerk acting on behalf of the
Corporation upon such certificates may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In
case any officer, transfer agent or transfer clerk acting on behalf of the
Corporation ceases to be such officer, transfer agent, or transfer clerk before
such certificates shall be issued, they may nevertheless be issued by the
Corporation with the same effect as if they were still such officer, transfer
agent or transfer clerk at the date of their issue.  

SECTION 2.  Books of Account
and Record of Stockholders.  There shall
be kept at the office of the Corporation correct books of account of all its
business and transactions, minutes of the proceedings of stockholders, Board,
and Executive Committee, and a book to be known as the record of stockholders,
containing the names and addresses of all persons who are stockholders, the
number of shares of stock held, and the date when the stockholder became the
owner of record thereof.  

SECTION 3.  Transfers of
Stock.  Transfers of shares of stock of
the Corporation shall be made on the record of stockholders of the Corporation
only upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by an attorney
thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the
Secretary or with a transfer agent or transfer clerk, and on surrender of the
certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed, provided such
shares are represented by a certificate, or accompanied by a duly executed
stock transfer power and the payment of all taxes thereon.  The person in whose names shares of stock
shall stand on the record of stockholders of the Corporation shall be deemed
the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation. Whenever any
transfers of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely
and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer
agent or transfer clerk, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the
transfer.  

16    

SECTION 4. 
Regulations.  The Board may make
such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not
inconsistent with these By-laws, concerning the issue, transfer and
registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the
Corporation.  It may appoint, or
authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more transfer agents or
one or more transfer clerks and one or more registrars and may require all
certificates of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.  

SECTION 5.  Fixing of Record
Date.  The Board shall fix a time not
exceeding sixty nor less than ten days prior to the date then fixed for the
holding of any meeting of the stockholders or prior to the last day on which
the consent or dissent of the stockholders may be effectively expressed for any
purpose without a meeting, as the time as of which the stockholders entitled to
notice of and to vote at such meeting or whose consent or dissent is required
or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined,
and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time, and no
others, shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to
express their consent or dissent, as the case may be.  The Board may fix a time not exceeding sixty
days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend or the making of
any distribution or the allotment of rights to subscribe for securities of the
Corporation, or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of
interests arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock or
other securities, as the record date for the determination of the stockholders
entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, allotment, rights or
interests, and in such case only the stockholders of record at the time so
fixed shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, allotment,
rights or interests.  

SECTION 6.  Lost, Destroyed
or Mutilated Certificates.  The holder of
any certificate representing shares of stock of the Corporation shall
immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction or mutilation of
such certificate, and the Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in
the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it which the owner thereof
shall allege to have been lost or destroyed or which shall have been mutilated,
and the Corporation may, in its discretion, require such owner or the owner s
legal representatives to give to the Corporation a bond in such sum, limited or
unlimited, and in such form and with such surety or sureties as the Board in
its absolute discretion shall determine, to indemnify the Corporation against
any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or
destruction of any such certificate, or the issuance of such new certificate.
Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation, in its absolute
discretion, may refuse to issue any such new certificate, except pursuant to
legal proceedings under the laws of the State of New York.  

SECTION 7.  Inspection of
Records.  The record of stockholders and
minutes of the proceedings of stockholders shall be available for inspection,
within the limits and subject to the conditions and restrictions prescribed by
applicable law.  

17    

SECTION 8.  Auditors.  The Board shall employ an independent public
or certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who shall act as
auditors in making examinations of the consolidated financial statements of the
Corporation and its subsidiaries in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. The auditors shall certify that the annual financial statements are
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and shall
report on such financial statements to the stockholders and directors of the
Corporation. The Board s selection of auditors shall be presented for
ratification by the stockholders at the annual meeting. Directors and officers,
when acting in good faith, may rely upon financial statements of the
Corporation represented to them to be correct by the officer of the Corporation
having charge of its books of account, or stated in a written report by the
auditors fairly to reflect the financial condition of the Corporation.  

ARTICLE VIII  

OFFICES  

SECTION 1.  Principal
Office.  The principal office of the
Corporation shall be at such place in the Town of North Castle, County of
Westchester and State of New York as the Board shall from time to time
determine.  

SECTION 2.  Other
Offices.  The Corporation may also have
an office or offices other than said principal office at such place or places
as the Board shall from time to time determine or the business of the
Corporation may require.  

ARTICLE IX  

WAIVER OF NOTICE  

Whenever under the provisions of any law of the State of New York, the
Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws or any resolution of the Board or
any committee thereof, the Corporation or the Board or any committee thereof is
authorized to take any action after notice to the stockholders, directors or
members of any such committee, or after the lapse of a prescribed period of
time, such action may be taken without notice and without the lapse of any
period of time, if, at any time before or after such action shall be completed,
such notice or lapse of time shall be waived by the person or persons entitled
to said notice or entitled to participate in the action to be taken, or, in the
case of a stockholder, by an attorney thereunto authorized. Attendance at a
meeting requiring notice by any person or, in the case of a stockholder, by the
stockholder s attorney, agent or proxy, shall constitute a waiver of such
notice on the part of the person so attending, or by such stockholder, as the
case may be.  

18    

ARTICLE X  

FISCAL YEAR  

The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the thirty-first day of
December in each year.  

ARTICLE XI  

SEAL  

The Seal of the Corporation shall consist of two concentric circles
with the IBM logotype appearing in bold face type within the inner circle and
the words  International Business Machines Corporation  appearing within the
outer circle.  

ARTICLE XII  

AMENDMENTS  

These By-laws may be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted
by the stockholders at any annual or special meeting, if the notice thereof
mentions that amendment or repeal or the adoption of new By-laws is one of the
purposes of such meeting. These By-laws, subject to the laws of the State of
New York, may also be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted by the
affirmative vote of a majority of the Board given at any meeting, if the notice
thereof mentions that amendment or repeal or the adoption of new By-laws is one
of the purposes of such meeting.  

19    

</EX-3>

<EX-10.1>
 3
 a2195966zex-10_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.1

EXHIBIT 10.1   

Note: This
exhibit amends and restates the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan to clarify the
administrative structures of the Plan.  

IBM EXCESS 401(k) PLUS PLAN   

Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2010  

  (except as
otherwise provided herein)  

TABLE OF CONTENTS   

2    

3    

ARTICLE I. INTRODUCTION   

1.01.       Name of Plan and Effective Date.    
The IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the  EDCP ) was renamed
and restated as the  IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan  (the  Plan ), effective
as of January 1, 2008 (the  Effective Date ), except as provided in Section 1.04,
below, with respect to amounts earned before the Effective Date.  This amended and restated plan document is
effective as of January 1, 2010, except as otherwise provided herein. In
addition, the EDCP plan document in effect prior to the Effective Date (the  EDCP
document ) continues to govern the portion of the Plan consisting of  deferred
shares  (as defined in the EDCP document). 
The EDCP document is Appendix A.  

1.02.       Purpose.     The purpose of the Plan is to attract and
retain employees by providing a means for employees to defer their pay and
obtain matching and other company contributions outside of the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan, which is subject to certain limits under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended (the  Code ).  All Plan
benefits are paid out of the general assets of the Company (as defined in
ARTICLE II).  

1.03.       Legal Status.     The Plan consists of two separate plans:  

(a) An unfunded
deferred compensation plan for a select group of management or highly
compensated employees (within the meaning of Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3),
401(a)(1), 4021(b)(6) of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974,
as amended ( ERISA )), except to the extent that the Plan provides benefits as
described in subsection (b), below; and  

(b) An  excess
benefit plan  (within the meaning of Section 3(36) of ERISA), to the
extent the Plan provides benefits that Section 415 of the Code prevents   the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan   from providing.  

1.04.       Section 409A.   

(a)  Grandfathered Amounts under Section 409A.   Benefits earned and vested under the EDCP
before January 1, 2005, as adjusted for   earnings, gains, or losses
on those benefits   ( Grandfathered
Amounts ) are treated as grandfathered for purposes of Section 409A of the
Code.  Grandfathered Amounts are subject
to the terms of the EDCP in effect on October 3, 2004, except as provided
herein or in Appendix A.  For
recordkeeping purposes, the Company will account separately for Grandfathered
Amounts.  

(b)  Non-Grandfathered Amounts.  
With respect to benefits under the Plan (including benefits earned
before the Effective Date) other than Grandfathered Amounts ( Non-Grandfathered
Amounts ), the Plan is intended, and shall be construed, to comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the Code. 
Non-Grandfathered Amounts earned before the Effective Date were subject,
before  

Exhibit A  

the Effective Date, to the terms of the EDCP, as
amended, including, for example, the requirement that any payment to a 409A Key
Employee (as defined in ARTICLE II) that would otherwise be paid in the first
six months after a separation from service was instead paid in the seventh
month.  Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in this Section 1.04, in no event shall the Company, its
officers, directors, employees, parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable
for any additional tax, interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or
Beneficiary as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A
of the Code, or as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other
applicable requirements for the deferral of tax.  

2    

ARTICLE
II.     DEFINITIONS   

The
following words and phrases as used herein have the following meanings unless a
different meaning is required by the context:  

401(k) Plan      means the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan as in effect from time to time, including, with respect to periods before
the Effective Date, the IBM Savings Plan and any other predecessor to the IBM
401(k) Plus Plan, as applicable.  

409A Key Employee      has the meaning described
in the IBM Section 409A Umbrella
Document, which is Appendix B.  

409A Separation from Service      has the meaning described
in the IBM Section 409A Umbrella
Document    attached to this
Plan as Appendix B.  

Account      means a record-keeping account maintained
for a Participant under the Plan.  A
Participant s Accounts under the Plan include, where applicable, a Pre-2005
Elective Deferral Account, a Pre-2005 Company Account, a Post-2004 Elective
Deferral Account, and a Post-2004 Company Account.  

Actively Employed      means actively employed by
the Company, including on a leave of absence other than a bridge leave, a
pre-retirement planning leave, or a leave during which the individual is
receiving LTD Benefits.  

Automatic Contribution      has the
meaning provided in Section 5.01.  

Base Pay      means an Employee s base pay (determined
under the 401(k) Plan) from the Company for employment while on a U.S.
payroll, determined before reduction for deferrals under the Plan or the 401(k) Plan
or for amounts not included in income on account of salary reductions under
Code section 125 or 132(f).  However,
Base Pay does not include any pay during a Deferral Period that is paid after
an Employee s 409A Separation from Service (except amounts paid in the pay
period in which the Employee s 409A Separation from Service occurs and Rehire Pay).  

Beneficiary      means a person who is designated by a
Participant or by the terms of the Plan to receive a benefit under the Plan by
reason of the Participant s death.  Each
Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan shall be the person or persons designated
as the Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan, in the form and manner
prescribed by the Plan Administrator.  If
no such beneficiary designation is in effect under the Plan at the time of the
Participant s death, or if no designated beneficiary under the Plan survives
the Participant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the person or persons
determined to be the Participant s beneficiary under the 401(k) Plan
(including the default beneficiary rules under the 401(k) Plan, if no
beneficiary is designated under that plan).  

Board      means the Board of Directors of IBM.  

3    

Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time.  All citations to
sections of the Code are to such sections as they may from time to time be
amended or renumbered.  

Combined Base Pay Election      has the meaning provided in Section 4.01(a)(1).  

Company      means International Business Machines
Corporation ( IBM ), a New York corporation having its principal place of
business at Armonk, New York, and its Domestic Subsidiaries that are
participating employers in the 401(k) Plan.  

Company Contributions      means amounts credited to a
Participant s Post-2004 Company Account, including Matching Contributions,
Match Maximizer Contributions, Automatic Contributions, Transition Credits,
Discretionary Awards, Section 415 Excess Credits, and any similar credits
under the EDCP.  

Deferral Election      means an Eligible Employee s
election to defer Base Pay or Performance Pay under Section 4.01.  

Deferral Period      means a period that begins
on or after the Effective Date that (a) starts on January 1 and ends
on the next following December 31 for Base Pay and (b) starts on April 1
and ends on the next following March 31 for Performance Pay.  

Discretionary Award      means a credit to a
Participant s Account as described in Section 5.04.  

Domestic Subsidiary      means a  Domestic
Subsidiary  as defined in the 401(k) Plan.  

EDCP      means the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation Plan
in effect before the Effective Date.  

Effective Date      means the initial effective
date of the Plan, which is January 1, 2008.  

Elective Deferrals      means deferrals of Base Pay
or Performance Pay credited to the Participant s Post-2004 Elective Deferral
Account pursuant to a Participant s election under Section 4.01(a) or
any similar provision of the EDCP.  

Eligible Employee      means, with respect to a
Plan Year, an Employee who is eligible to make Elective Deferrals or to receive
Company Contributions during the Plan Year pursuant to ARTICLE III.  

Employee      means an employee of the Company who is
eligible to participate in the 401(k) Plan and is not a Supplemental
Employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
an individual who, on or after January 1, 2009, was an Employee and
becomes a Supplemental Employee or begins receiving LTD Benefits before or
during a Deferral Period with respect to which the individual has a valid,
irrevocable Deferral Election and  

4    

without
first incurring a 409A Separation from Service shall continue to be considered
to be an Employee solely for purposes of the individual s eligibility during
such Deferral Period to make Elective Deferrals (but not for purposes of the
individual s eligibility for any Company Contribution).  For example, an individual who is   receiving LTD Benefits   is not eligible
to participate in the 401(k) Plan (as in effect on the Effective Date) and
is therefore not an Employee, except that if the individual has not incurred a
409A Separation from Service, the Employee s Elective Deferrals shall continue
pursuant to any irrevocable Deferral Election.  

ERISA      means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974, as amended from time to time.  

Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay      means, for each payroll
period that ends after an Eligible Employee reaches his or her Program
Eligibility Date, the excess, if any, of (A) the Eligible Employee s
eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan for such payroll period
determined without regard to the Pay Limit, over (B) the Eligible Employee s
eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan during such payroll period
determined taking into account the Pay Limit. 
Solely for purposes of each payroll period in Plan Year 2008:  

(a)              Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay of an Eligible Employee who is an executive includes Performance Pay that
is paid during the   payroll   period and is
not eligible compensation under the 401(k) Plan minus Elective Deferrals
made with respect to such Performance Pay; and  

(b)             solely for purposes of
calculating Match Maximizer Contributions, Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay does
not include Growth Driven Profit-Sharing amounts   and employee sales or services incentives that are
paid in the first quarter of 2008   (however, these amounts are
Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay for purposes of calculating Automatic
Contributions and Transition Credits).  

Grandfathered Amounts      has the meaning provided in
Section 1.04(a).  

IBM      means International Business Machines Corporation,
any predecessor, or any successor by merger, purchase, or otherwise.  

LTD Benefits      means   benefits under the Company s long-term
disability plan.  

Matching Contribution      has the meaning provided in
Section 4.02(a).  

Match Maximizer Contribution      has the meaning provided in
Section 4.02(b).  

Non-Grandfathered Amounts      has the meaning provided in
Section 1.04(b).  

Participant      means an individual who has a positive
balance in an Account under the Plan.  

5    

Pay Limit      means, for a Plan Year, the limit on
compensation that may be taken into account during such Plan Year under a
tax-qualified plan as determined under Code Section 401(a)(17).  

Performance Pay      means an Employee s
performance pay (determined under the 401(k) Plan) from the Company for
employment while on a U.S. payroll, determined before reduction for deferrals
under the Plan or the 401(k) Plan or for amounts not included in income on
account of salary reductions under Code section 125 or 132(f).  However, Performance Pay does not include any
pay during a Deferral Period that is paid after an Employee s 409A Separation
from Service (except amounts paid in the pay period in which the Employee s
409A Separation from Service occurs and Rehire Pay).  Notwithstanding this definition, Performance
Pay that is paid in the first quarter of 2008 is subject to the following
special rules:  

(a)              such
Performance Pay does not include   Growth Driven Profit-Sharing and employee sales or
services incentives;  

(b)             such Performance Pay
includes incentive pay (such as Annual Incentive Plan payments or sales or
services incentives) that is paid to an executive; and  

(c)              an Employee s deferral election with respect to such Performance Pay is
subject to the advance election and deferral percentage limit terms of the
EDCP.  

Plan      means this IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan.  

Plan Administrator      means the VP HR with
functional responsibilities for IBM s benefit programs, or such other person or
committee appointed pursuant to ARTICLE X, which shall be responsible for
reporting, recordkeeping, and related administrative requirements.  If appointed as a committee, any one of the
members of the committee may act individually on behalf of the committee to
fulfill the committee s duties.  

Plan Year      means the calendar year.  

Pre-2005 Accounts      means a Participant s
Pre-2005 Company Account and Pre-2005 Elective Deferral Account.  

Pre-2005 Company Account      means, for any Participant,
the aggregate of the company contributions (including any discretionary awards)
credited to the Participant under the EDCP before January 1, 2005, to the
extent such contributions were vested as of December 31, 2004, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on those contributions, but reduced for any
prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

Pre-2005 Elective Deferral Account      means, for any Participant,
the aggregate of  the elective deferrals
credited to the Participant under the EDCP before January 1, 2005, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on those elective deferrals, but reduced
for any prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

6    

Post-2004 Accounts      means a Participant s
Post-2004 Company Account and Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account.  

Post-2004 Company Account      means, for any Participant,
the aggregate of (a) the Company Contributions credited to the Participant
under the EDCP or the Plan on or after January 1, 2005, plus (b) any
such contributions credited under the EDCP before January 1, 2005, to the
extent such contributions were not vested as of December 31, 2004, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on amounts described in (a) and (b),
but reduced for any prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account      means, for any
Participant, the aggregate of the Elective Deferrals credited to the
Participant under the EDCP or the Plan on or after January 1, 2005, and
earnings, gains, or losses credited on those Elective Deferrals, but reduced
for any prior distribution under the EDCP or the Plan.  

Program Eligibility Date      means an Eligible Employee s
 Program Eligibility Date  under the 401(k) Plan.  

Rehire Pay      means Base Pay or Performance Pay, as
applicable, that is payable on or   after the date an Employee returns to active
employment with the Company following a 409A Separation from Service or, if
later, after the end of the Deferral Period in which the Employee s 409A
Separation from Service occurred.  For
example, if an Employee incurs a 409A Separation from Service in April 2009
(whether on account of a leave in excess of six months or because of a
termination of employment with IBM) and returns to active employment with IBM
in November 2009, the Employee s Rehire Pay would include (a) Base
Pay payable on or after January 1, 2010 (i.e., the beginning of the Base
Pay Deferral Period after the 409A Separation from Service), and (b) Performance
Pay payable on or after April 1, 2010 (i.e., the beginning of the
Performance Pay Deferral Period after the 409A Separation from Service).  By contrast, if instead the Employee returned
to active employment on February 1, 2010, the Employee s Rehire Pay would
include (a) Base Pay payable on or after on February 1, 2010, and (b) Performance
Pay payable on or after April 1, 2010.  

Retirement-Eligible Participant      means a
Participant who:  

(a)       when his or her 409A Separation from
Service occurs, (1) is at least age 55 with at least 15 years of service, (2) is
at least age 62 with at least 5 years of service, (3) is at least age 65
with at least 1 year of service, or (4) begins to receive LTD Benefits;  

(b)       as of June 30, 1999, had at least 25
years of service and, when his or her 409A Separation from Service occurs, has
at least 30 years of service; or  

7    

(c)       as of June 30, 1999, was at least
age 40 with at least 10 years of service and, when his or her 409A Separation
from Service occurs, has at least 30 years of service.  

For
purposes of this definition,  year of service  means a year of  Eligibility
Service  as defined in the IBM Personal Pension Plan.  In addition, for purposes of Section 8.04
(payment of grandfathered amounts upon termination of employment), this
definition of  Retirement-Eligible Participant  is applied by replacing  409A
Separation from Service  with  termination of employment.   Furthermore, the conditions in (a), (b),
and/or (c) above are modified to the extent necessary to be consistent
with the retirement-eligibility criteria in the EDCP.  

Section 415 Excess Credit      means a credit
to a Participant s Account as described in Section 5.03.  

Subsidiary      means a  Subsidiary  as defined in the 401(k) Plan.  

Supplemental Employee      means an employee who is
designated by the Company as a  long-term supplemental employee  or a  supplemental
employee  in accordance with the Company s established personnel practices.  

Transition Credit      means a credit
to a Participant s Account as described in Section 5.02.  

8    

ARTICLE III. ELIGIBILITY   

3.01.               Eligibility for Elective
Deferrals.     An Employee shall be eligible to make
Elective Deferrals for a Deferral Period if:  

(a) he or she
qualifies as an Employee (i.e., an employee of the Company who is eligible to
participate in the 401(k) Plan and is not a Supplemental Employee) and is
Actively Employed on both August 31 and December 31 immediately
preceding the first day of the Deferral Period;  

(b) the Plan
Administrator, in its sole discretion, estimates as of the September 1
immediately preceding the first day of the Deferral Period (or such other date
prescribed by the Plan Administrator) that the Employee s pay for the calendar
year immediately preceding the first day of the Deferral Period will exceed the
Pay Limit as then in effect; and  

(c) the Plan
Administrator notifies the Employee between September 1 and December 31
immediately preceding the Deferral Period that he or she will be eligible to
make Elective Deferrals under the Plan during the Deferral Period.  

3.02.               Eligibility for Matching and
Match Maximizer Contributions.     An Employee
shall be eligible for Matching and Match Maximizer Contributions for a payroll
period that ends after the   Employee has reached his or her Program
Eligibility Date, provided that   the Employee is eligible for, and makes, Elective
Deferrals during the Plan Year in which the payroll period ends  .  However, an Employee shall not be eligible
for Matching and Match Maximizer Contributions during any payroll period:  

(a)    beginning
after the Employee has a 409A Separation from Service and ending before the
Employee returns to active employment as an Employee;  

(b)   beginning after
the Employee receives a hardship withdrawal under the 401(k) Plan and
within the same Plan Year as such hardship withdrawal occurs; or  

(c)   beginning after
the Employee becomes a Supplemental Employee or begins to receive LTD Benefits
(whether or not he or she makes Elective Deferrals) and ending before he again
becomes an Employee.  

3.03.               Eligibility
for Automatic Contributions and Transition Credits.   

(a)  General Rule.   Except
as provided in subsection (b) (regarding Employees hired before September 1,
2007) and subsection (c) (regarding the period following a 409A Separation
from Service), an Employee shall be eligible for Automatic Contributions and
Transition Credits during a payroll period if:  

(1) with respect to
eligibility for Automatic Contributions, the Employee is eligible during that
payroll period for  automatic contributions   

9    

under the 401(k) Plan, and, with respect to
eligibility for Transition Credits, the Employee is eligible during that
payroll period for  transition credits  under the 401(k) Plan; and  

(2) the Employee is
eligible to make Elective Deferrals during the payroll period (regardless of
whether the Employee has elected to make Elective Deferrals for the payroll
period).  

If the individual is
eligible to make Elective Deferrals during the Plan Year only with respect to
Performance Pay during the Performance Pay Deferral Period that ends in the
Plan Year, the individual is eligible for Automatic Contributions and
Transition Credits, if at all, only during payroll periods ending during such
Performance Pay Deferral Period and only with respect to the portion of the
Performance Pay actually deferred under this Plan (except as provided in
subsection (b), below).  For example, if
an individual is eligible to make Elective Deferrals for Deferral Periods that
begin in 2008 but is not eligible to make Elective Deferrals for Deferral
Periods that begin in 2009, the individual is not eligible for Automatic
Contributions and Transition Credits in 2009 except with respect to any
Elective Deferrals of Performance Pay for the Performance Pay Deferral Period
ending March 31, 2009 (and except as provided in subsection (b), below).  

(b)  Employees Hired Before September 1, 2007 .   Notwithstanding subsection (a), above, an
Employee who is continuously employed by the Company since August 31,
2007, shall be eligible for Automatic Contributions and Transition Credits
during a payroll period if   the Employee is eligible during that payroll period, respectively, for  automatic
contributions  and  transition credits  under the 401(k) Plan as described
in subsection (a)(1), above, even if the Employee is not eligible to make
Elective Deferrals during the payroll period  .  

(c)  Eligibility after 409A Separation from Service .  An Employee shall not be eligible for
Automatic Contributions or Transition Credits during any payroll period that
begins after the Employee has a 409A Separation from Service and ends before
the Employee returns to active employment as an Employee.  

3.04.               Eligibility for Section 415
Excess Credits.     An Employee
shall be eligible for Section 415 Excess Credits during a payroll period
if the Employee s allocations during the payroll period under the 401(k) Plan
are limited by Section 415 of the Code. 
However, an Employee shall not be eligible for Section 415 Excess
Credits during any payroll period that begins after the Employee has a 409A
Separation from Service and ends before the Employee returns to active
employment as an Employee.  

3.05.               Eligibility for Discretionary
Awards.     An Employee shall be eligible
for Discretionary Awards during a Plan Year as determined by the Company, in
its discretion.  

10    

ARTICLE IV. ELECTIVE DEFERRALS
AND     MATCHING
CONTRIBUTIONS   

4.01.               Elective Deferrals.    
Beginning with the payroll period that includes the Effective Date  ,   Elective Deferrals made pursuant to an
Eligible Employee s Deferral Election, as described below, shall be credited to
the Employee s Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account on the date on which the
amount would otherwise be paid to the Eligible Employee absent a Deferral
Election.  

(a)  Amount of Elective Deferrals .  

(1)  Amount of
Base Pay Deferrals .  An Employee who,
pursuant to Section 3.01, is eligible to make Elective Deferrals under the
Plan for a Deferral Period with respect to Base Pay may elect to defer Base Pay
in the amounts specified below, subject to any restriction imposed by the Plan
Administrator to ensure sufficient pay remains for other deductions and
withholding, which limitations shall be imposed prior to the date on which the
election becomes irrevocable.  

i.         Standard Base Pay Election   . 
From 1% to 80%, in 1% increments, of the Eligible Employee s Base Pay,
if any, for each payroll period that ends during the Deferral Period; or  

ii.        Combined Base Pay Election   . 
From 1% to 80%, in 1% increments, of the Eligible Employee s Base Pay,
if any, for each payroll period that ends during the Deferral Period, reduced
(but not below zero) by the product of (A) the company matching
contribution percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee under the 401(k) Plan
and (B) 1/24 of the Pay Limit in effect for the Deferral Period.  

(2)  Amount
of Performance Pay Deferrals .  An
Employee who, pursuant to Section 3.01, may elect to make Elective
Deferrals under the Plan for a Deferral Period with respect to Performance Pay
may elect to make Deferrals from 1% to 80%, in 1% increments, of his or   her   Performance Pay, if any,
paid during the Deferral Period.  

(b)  Timing of Deferral Elections.      An Eligible Employee s Deferral
Elections under subsection (a), above, shall be made as follows:  

(1)  Election
Period.   The election must be made
while the individual is an Employee and Actively Employed, in the form and
manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator, and during the time period
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, which shall begin no earlier than the September 1
and end no later than the December 31 of the Plan Year  

11    

immediately preceding the first day of the Deferral
Period to which the election applies.  

(2)  Irrevocability .  The election must become irrevocable on the December 31st
immediately preceding the Plan Year during which the applicable Deferral Period
begins.  Once a Deferral Election becomes
irrevocable, a  n Eligible Employee s Deferral Election shall apply
for the entire Deferral Period to which it relates and shall cease to apply
after such Deferral Period except to the extent that the individual makes a new
Deferral Election in accordance with this Section for subsequent Deferral
Periods  , subject to
the cancellation rules in subsection (c), below.  

(c)  Cancellation of Deferral Election upon a 401(k) Plan Hardship
Distribution . Notwithstanding the irrevocability of elections in
subsection (b)(2), above, an individual s Deferral Election shall not apply
with respect to:  

(1) any payroll
period that ends after the Employee receives a hardship withdrawal under the
401(k) Plan and within the same Plan Year as the hardship withdrawal
occurs; or  

(2) any payroll
period for which Performance Pay would, absent a Deferral Election, be paid to
the individual during a Deferral Period that begins during the Plan Year in
which the hardship withdrawal occurs.  

For example, if an
individual receives a hardship withdrawal on June 1, 2009, the individual s
Deferral Election with respect to Performance Pay is cancelled for the
remainder of the Deferral Period ending March 31, 2010.  Furthermore, if the individual instead
receives a hardship withdrawal on March 1, 2009, the individual s Deferral
Election is cancelled with respect to the remainder of the Deferral Period
ending on March 31, 2009, and for the Deferral Period beginning on April 1,
2009, and ending on March 31, 2010.  

4.02.               Matching Contributions.     Beginning with the payroll period that includes the
Effective Date  , Matching Contributions and Match Maximizer
Contributions shall be credited to the Post-2004 Company Account for each
Eligible Employee who satisfies the eligibility requirements described in Section 3.02
for such payroll period in an amount equal to the sum of the Matching
Contribution and Match Maximizer Contribution described below.  

(a)  Matching Contribution . 
An Eligible Employee s Matching Contribution is the sum of the
following:  

(1) the lesser of (A) the
company matching contribution percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee
under the 401(k) Plan or (B) the Elective Deferral percentage elected
by the Eligible Employee (without regard to any Combined Base Pay Election) for
such payroll period,  

12    

multiplied by the Eligible Employee s Elective
Deferrals for such payroll period; and  

(2) the lesser of (A) the
company matching contribution percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee
under the 401(k) Plan or (B) the Elective Deferral percentage elected
by the Eligible Employee (without regard to any Combined Base Pay Election) for
such payroll period, multiplied by the Eligible Employee s Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay for such payroll period;  

provided
that the sum of (1) and (2) shall not exceed the Elective Deferrals
credited to the Eligible Employee for such payroll period.  

(b)  Match Maximizer Contribution .  An Eligible Employee s Match Maximizer
Contribution for a payroll period is determined as described below.  The formula differs (as noted in paragraph
(ii), below) depending on whether or not the Eligible Employee elected the
Combined Base Pay Election for the Plan Year. The Match Maximizer Contribution
shall equal:  

The lesser of:    (1) The company matching contribution
percentage applicable to the Eligible Employee under the 401(k) Plan or (2) the
percentage derived from the ratio of:  

(i)               the aggregate Elective Deferrals previously credited
to the Eligible   Employee s   Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account for the portion
of the Plan Year after the Eligible Employee s Program Eligibility Date, to  

(ii)               the sum, aggregated for the portion of the Plan Year
that is after the Eligible Employee s Program Eligibility Date and   determined as
of the date the applicable payroll period ends  , of (A) the Eligible Employee s Elective
Deferrals, (B) the Eligible Employee s Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay,
and (C) if the Eligible Employee did not elect a Combined Base Pay
Election for the Plan Year, the compensation eligible for a matching
contribution under the 401(k) Plan.  

Multiplied by:    The Eligible Employee s Excess 401(k) Eligible
Pay plus the Eligible Employee s Elective Deferrals, each aggregated only   for the portion of the Plan Year that is
after the Eligible Employee s Program Eligibility Date and until the   applicable
payroll period ends.  

Minus:    The Matching Contributions and Match Maximizer
Contributions previously credited to the Eligible Employee through the date the
applicable payroll period ends.  

13    

ARTICLE V. NON-ELECTIVE CREDITS   

5.01.               Automatic Contributions.    
Beginning with the payroll period that includes the Effective Date, an
Automatic Contribution shall be credited to the Post-2004 Company Account of an
Employee who is eligible for Automatic Contributions under Section 3.03 in
an amount equal to the sum of:  

(a) the Employee s  automatic
contribution percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by the Employee s
Elective Deferrals, if any, for the applicable payroll period; plus  

(b) the Employee s  automatic
contribution percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by the Employee s
Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay, if any, for the applicable payroll period.  

5.02.               Transition Credits.    
Beginning with the payroll period that includes the Effective Date, a
Transition Credit shall be credited to the Post-2004 Company Account of an
Employee who is eligible for Transition Credits under Section 3.03 in an amount
equal to the sum of:  

(a) the Employee s  transition
credit percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by, if any, the
Employee s Elective Deferrals for the applicable payroll period; plus  

(b) the Employee s  transition
credit percentage  under the 401(k) Plan multiplied by the Employee s
Excess 401(k) Eligible Pay, if any, for the applicable payroll period.  

5.03.               Section 415 Excess Credits.     Beginning with
the payroll period that includes the Effective Date, a Section 415 Excess
Credit shall be credited to the Post-2004 Company Account of an Employee who is
eligible for Section 415 Excess Credits under Section 3.04 in an
amount equal to the excess of (A) the amount that would have been
allocated to the Employee s account under the 401(k) Plan (including any
forfeiture that would have been allocated to such account in lieu of such a
contribution) for such payroll period if the limits imposed by Section 415
of the Code did not apply to such allocation over (B) the amount actually
allocated to such Employee s account under the 401(k) Plan (including any
forfeiture allocated in lieu of such a contribution) for such payroll period.  

5.04.               Discretionary Awards.     From time to
time on and after the Effective Date, the Company, in its discretion, may
credit an Eligible Employee s Post-2004 Company Account with an amount
determined under an agreement evidencing the Discretionary Award, and such
award shall be subject to the terms specified in such agreement in addition to
the terms of this Plan.  

14    

ARTICLE VI. VESTING, DEEMED INVESTMENT OF ACCOUNTS   

6.01.               Individual Accounts.     For record-keeping purposes only, the Plan
Administrator shall maintain, or cause to be maintained, records showing the
individual balances of each Account maintained for a Participant from time to
time under the Plan.  Periodically, each
Participant shall be furnished with a statement setting forth the value of his
or her Accounts under the Plan.  

6.02.               Vesting of Accounts.     A
Participant shall be fully vested in all Accounts maintained for the
Participant under the Plan; provided, however, that Discretionary Awards
credited to a Participant s Post-2004 Company Account and earnings, gains, or
losses on those contributions, shall become vested only as set forth in the
agreement evidencing the award and, to the extent not vested, shall not be
paid.  

6.03.               Deemed Investment of Accounts.     A
Participant s Accounts under the Plan shall be adjusted for deemed earnings,
gains, or losses.  Earnings, gains, or
losses for any period before the Effective Date shall be determined in
accordance with the applicable provisions of the EDCP.  Earnings, gains, or losses for any period on
or after the Effective Date shall be determined in accordance with the following:  

(a)  Deemed Investment Options Available .  

(1)  General Rule .  A Participant s Account shall be treated as
if the Participant had invested such accounts in certain 401(k) Plan
investment funds in accordance with subsection (b), below, except with respect
to certain amounts credited before the Effective Date and attributable to
Matching Contributions or the Buy-First Program as described in paragraphs (2) and
(3), below.  

(2)  Matching
Contributions Credited Before the Effective Date .  The portion of a Participant s Pre-2005
Company Account (if any) and the Participant s Post-2004 Company Account
attributable to Matching Contributions credited to the Participant before the
Effective Date (and related earnings but not dividend equivalents) shall be
treated as if invested at all times in the IBM Stock Fund under the 401(k) Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a
Participant has a termination of employment for purposes of the 401(k) Plan
and his or her entire Plan benefit is not immediately payable in a lump sum,
amounts described in this paragraph (2) shall no longer be subject to the restrictions of this paragraph (2) and may be invested as described in
paragraph (1), above.  

(3)  Amounts Attributable to Buy-First Executive
Equity Program . Any portion
of a Participant s Post-2004 Elective Deferral Account that is attributable to
a Participant s deferrals under the EDCP through the IBM Buy-First Executive
Equity Program before the Effective Date (and related  

15    

earnings but not dividend
equivalents) shall, for the three-year period following the date such deferrals
were credited, be treated as if invested in the IBM Stock Fund under the 401(k) Plan;
provided, however, that if a Participant has a termination of employment for
purposes of the 401(k) Plan before the end of such three-year period and
his or her entire Plan benefit is not immediately payable in a lump sum,
amounts described in this paragraph (3) shall no longer be subject to the
restrictions of this paragraph (3) and may be invested as described in
paragraph   (1), above.  

(b)  Elections for Deemed Investment Options.   

(1)  Initial
Election For Future Credits .  A
Participant shall designate, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, the proportions (in multiples of 1%) in
which Elective Deferrals and Company Contributions credited to his or her Plan
Accounts on or after the Effective Date shall be treated as if they had been
allocated among any or all of the investment funds that are available under the
401(k) Plan (other than the mutual fund window) at the time such amounts
are credited.  If the Participant makes
no such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have designated the
default investment fund under the 401(k) Plan.  

(2)  Change in
Election for Future Credits .  A
Participant may elect, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to change his or her investment elections
for future Elective Deferrals and Company Contributions credited to his or her
Plan Accounts.  Any restrictions on
investment election changes that apply under the 401(k) Plan shall also
apply under the Plan.  

(3)  Transfers
Among Deemed Investment Options .  A
Participant may elect, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to transfer balances in his or her Plan
Accounts (other than amounts described in subsections (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3) that
are required to be treated as invested in IBM stock or the IBM Stock Fund)
among the available investment funds, provided that:  

i.        Transfers must be made in multiples of 1%, provided
that the minimum amount transferred shall be $250 if that is greater than 1%
(provided, however, that the Plan Administrator may specify a different
percentage and/or a different dollar amount to be applied in this paragraph);  

ii.       Any restrictions on transfers into or out
of investment funds that apply under the 401(k) Plan shall also apply
under the Plan; and  

16    

iii.      Plan Administrator may impose such
additional rules and limits upon transfers between investment funds as the
Plan Administrator may deem necessary or appropriate.  

(c)  Administrative Fee . 
Each calendar quarter, an administrative fee shall be deducted pro rata
from each Participant s Accounts.  The
amount of the fee shall be determined by the Plan Administrator and, as of the
Effective Date is $8 each quarter.  

17    

ARTICLE VII. FORFEITURE AND RIGHT
OF RECOVERY OF COMPANY CONTRIBUTIONS   

7.01.       In
General.      If IBM s chief human resources officer
makes a determination that a Participant has engaged in  Detrimental Activity 
(as defined below), subject to the terms of this ARTICLE VII:  (i) the Participant s right (if any) to
the payment of the portion of the Participant s Account attributable to  Applicable
Company Contributions  (as defined below) shall terminate, unless otherwise
determined by such chief human resources officer; and (ii) if such portion
of the Participant s Account had been paid before such determination is made,
the Participant shall be required to repay such amount to IBM, unless otherwise
determined by such chief human resources officer.  Any determination by IBM s chief human
resources officer under this ARTICLE VII may be made in such officer s sole
discretion and shall be binding on the Participant.  

7.02.       Detrimental
Activity.     For purposes of this ARTICLE VII,   Detrimental Activity  shall include the
performance of any of the following activities during the Participant s
employment with the Company (as defined below) or during the 12-month period
immediately following such employment:  

(a)  the rendering
of services for any organization or engaging directly or indirectly in any
business which is or becomes competitive with the Company, or which
organization or business, or the rendering of services to such organization or
business, is or becomes otherwise prejudicial to or in conflict with the interests
of the Company;  

(b) the disclosure
to anyone outside the Company, or the use in other than the Company s business,
without prior written authorization from the Company, of any confidential
information or material, as defined in the Company s Agreement Regarding
Confidential Information and Intellectual Property, relating to the business of
the Company, acquired by the Participant either during or after employment with
the Company;  

(c) the failure or
refusal to disclose promptly and to assign to the Company, pursuant to the
Company s Agreement Regarding Confidential Information and Intellectual
Property, all right, title and interest in any invention or idea, patentable or
not, made or conceived by the Participant during employment by the Company, relating
in any manner to the actual or anticipated business, research or development
work of the Company or the failure or refusal to do anything reasonably
necessary to enable the Company to secure a patent where appropriate in the
United States and in other countries;  

(d) activity that
results in termination of the Participant s employment for cause;  

18    

(e) a violation of
any rules, policies, procedures or guidelines of the Company, including but not
limited to the Company s Business Conduct Guidelines;  

(f) any attempt
directly or indirectly to induce any employee of the Company to be employed or
perform services elsewhere or any attempt directly or indirectly to solicit the
trade or business of any current or prospective customer, supplier or partner
of the Company;  

(g) the Participant
being convicted of, or entering a guilty plea with respect to, a crime, whether
or not connected with the Company; or  

(h) any other
conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any
interest of the Company.  

7.03.       Applicable
Company Contributions.     For purposes of this ARTICLE
VII,  Applicable Company Contributions  means Company Contributions (adjusted
for deemed earnings, gains, or losses) credited to the Participant s Account
during the period (i) beginning 12 months before the date of the first
occurrence of the Detrimental Activity, and (ii) ending on the date of the
Participant s termination of employment with the Company.  For the avoidance of doubt,  Applicable
Company Contributions  include any Company Contributions credited under the
Plan in connection with the last paycheck of the Participant for compensation
earned through the date of termination of employment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing,  Applicable
Company Contributions  do not include Company Contributions credited before April 1,
2010.  

7.04.       Timing.     This ARTICLE VII applies only if IBM s chief human
resources officer makes a determination that the Participant engaged in Detrimental
Activity under Section 7.01 no later than the second anniversary of the
date such officer discovers the Detrimental Activity.  

7.05.       Delegation of Authority.   

IBM s chief human resources officer may, by a duly
adopted resolution, delegate to an officer or employee of IBM all or a portion
of his or her authority under this ARTICLE VII.  

7.06.       Chief Human Resources Officer.    For purposes of this ARTICLE VII:  

(a) if IBM s chief
human resources officer delegates his or her responsibilities under this ARTICLE
VII to another person or to a committee, references to IBM s chief human
resources officer in this ARTICLE VII shall, instead, refer to such other
person or committee, except as provided in (b), below; and  

(b) in the case of a
Participant who is IBM s chief human resources officer, references to IBM s
chief human resources officer in this ARTICLE VII shall, instead, refer to the
Board or its delegate.  

19    

7.07.       Non-Exclusive Remedies.     The remedies
available under this ARTICLE VII are in addition to, and not in lieu of, any
other remedies available to IBM or its affiliates.  

7.08.       Severability.     If an
arbitrator or court of competent jurisdiction determines that any term,
provision, or portion of this ARTICLE VII is void, illegal, or unenforceable,
the other terms, provisions, and portions of this ARTICLE VII (as well as the
remainder of the Plan) shall remain in full force and effect, and the terms,
provisions, and portions that are determined to be void, illegal, or
unenforceable shall either be limited so that they shall remain in effect to
the extent permissible by law, or such arbitrator or court shall substitute, to
the extent enforceable, provisions similar thereto or other provisions, so as
to provide to IBM and its affiliates, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, the benefits intended by this ARTICLE VII.  

ARTICLE VIII. PAYMENT OF
GRANDFATHERED AMOUNTS   

8.01.       Grandfathered Treatment of Grandfathered Amounts.    
Pre-2005 Accounts are paid in accordance with the EDCP in effect on October 3,
2004, except as the EDCP is amended, where each such amendment does not
constitute a  material modification,  as determined under Section 409A of
the Code.  This ARTICLE VII describes the
key provisions of the EDCP (as amended), as it applies to Grandfathered Amounts
on and after the Effective Date.  

8.02.       Payment of Grandfathered Amounts Upon Death.     
If a Participant dies before his or her Pre-2005 Accounts have been
distributed in full, the value of his or her Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid in
a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary as soon as practicable after the Participant s death.  

8.03.       Options for Payment of Grandfathered Amounts Upon Termination
of Employment.   

(a)  Forms of Payment.   A Participant
may elect, at the time and in the manner described in subsection (b), below, to
have the value of his or her Pre-2005 Accounts paid under one of the following
options, subject to the limits in Section 8.04, below (regarding
retirement-eligibility and $25,000 cash-out limit):  

(1) A lump sum
payment as soon as practicable following the Participant s termination from
employment;  

(2) A lump sum
payment as of the last business day in January of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant s termination
from employment occurs; or  

(3) From two to 10
annual installments (as elected by the Participant), each paid as of the last
business day in January beginning  

20    

with the January immediately following the
calendar year in which the Participant s termination from employment occurs,
until the elected number of installments have been paid.  

Solely for purposes of
this subsection (a), termination of employment includes the date on which a
Participant begins to receive LTD Benefits.  

(b)  Election of Payment Option.  
A Participant shall elect a payment option for his or her Pre-2005
Accounts in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator.  A payment election made before January 1,
2008, applies to a termination of employment that occurs at least six months
after, and in a calendar year after, the payment election is made.  A payment election made on or after January 1,
2008, applies to a termination of employment that occurs at least twelve months
after the payment election is made.  

8.04.       Payment of Grandfathered Amounts Upon Termination of
Employment.    The
Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid to the Participant in the form
and at the time described below:  

(a)  Non-Retirement-Eligible
or Benefit Is Less than $25,000 .  If
the Participant is not a Retirement-Eligible Participant or if the aggregate
value of all of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) is less than $25,000 when
the Participant terminates employment, the Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts
shall be paid in an immediate lump sum;  

(b)  Retirement-Eligible
Without Valid Payment Election .  If
the Participant is a Retirement-Eligible Participant but has not made a valid
payment election, the Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid in a lump
sum as of the last business day in January immediately following the
calendar year of the Participant s termination of employment, provided that the
aggregate value of all of the Participant s Accounts (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) under the Plan is at least
$25,000 when the Participant terminates employment.  

(c)  Retirement-Eligible
With Valid Payment Election .  If the
Participant is a Retirement-Eligible Participant and has made a valid payment
election, the Participant s Pre-2005 Accounts shall be paid in accordance with
the payment option elected, provided that the aggregate value of all of the
Participant s Accounts under the Plan is at least $25,000 (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) when the Participant
terminates employment.  

21    

ARTICLE IX. PAYMENT OF NON-GRANDFATHERED
AMOUNTS   

9.01.           Payment of Non-Grandfathered Amounts Upon Death.    
If a Participant dies before his or her Post-2004 Accounts have been
distributed in full, the value of his or her Post-2004 Accounts shall be paid
in a lump sum to the Participant s Beneficiary on the date that is 30 days after the date of the Participant s
death (or, if that date is not a business day, the first business day
thereafter).  However, the Plan
Administrator may make payment on any other day to the extent that such payment
is treated as being paid on the date specified in the previous sentence under
Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which permits payment to be made
within thirty days before the specified date and later within the same calendar
year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months following the specified date, provided
that the Participant is not permitted to designate the taxable year of
payment.  For purposes of determining the
amount payable to the Beneficiary, the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts will be
valued as of the date the payment is processed.  

9.02.       Form of Payment for Non-Grandfathered Amounts Paid Upon a
409A Separation from Service.         A Participant may elect, at the time and
in the manner described in Section 9.03, below, to have the value of his
or her Post-2004 Accounts paid under one of the following options, subject to
the limits in Section 9.04, below (regarding delays for 409A Key
Employees) and Section 9.05, below (special rules for separations
during the first quarter of 2008):  

(a) A lump sum
payment as of the first business day that is at least 30 days after the
Participant s 409A Separation from Service;  

(b) A lump sum
payment as of the last business day in January of the calendar year
immediately following the calendar year in which the Participant s 409A
Separation from Service occurs; or  

(c) From two to 10
annual installments (as elected by the Participant), each paid as of the last
business day in January beginning with the January immediately
following the calendar year in which the Participant s 409A Separation from
Service occurs, until the elected number of installments have been paid,
subject to Section 9.04(c) (involuntary cash-outs).  This installment option is treated as the
entitlement to a single payment for purposes of Treasury Regulation section
1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii).  

However, the Plan
Administrator may make payment on any other day to the extent that such payment
is treated as being paid on the date specified above under Treasury Regulation
section 1.409A-3(d), which permits payment to be made within thirty days before
the specified date and later within the same calendar year, or, if later,
within 2-1/2 months following the specified date, provided that the Participant
is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.  

22    

9.03.       Electing and Changing Payment Options for Non-Grandfathered
Amounts.   

(a)  Election of Payment Option.  
A Participant shall elect a payment option for his or her Post-2004
Accounts in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator and during
whichever of the following election periods applies to the Participant (except
as provided in Section 9.05, below, with respect to a separation during
the first quarter of 2008):  

(1)  Special Election
Period in 2007 .  During the special
election period designated by the Plan Administrator and ending no later than December 31,
2007, an Employee may elect the payment option that will apply to his or her
Post-2004 Accounts under the Plan in the event his 409A Separation from Service
occurs on or after April 1, 2008, if the Employee:  

i.                 is eligible to make Elective Deferrals in 2008;  

ii.              on October 31, 2007, had a balance in his or her
EDCP Accounts; or  

iii.           on October 31, 2007, had a valid EDCP election on
file for deferrals in 2007.  

Accordingly, an
individual who first became an executive after October 31, 2007 and who is
not eligible to make Elective Deferrals in 2008, is not eligible to make a
payment election under this paragraph (1), even if he or she deferred pay under
the EDCP in 2007.  

(2)  Election in
Plan Year Before Initial Eligibility . 
An individual who is first eligible to make Elective Deferrals in a Plan
Year beginning after the Effective Date, and who before such Plan Year has not
earned any other benefit under the Plan (including the EDCP) may, during the
annual enrollment period prescribed by the Plan Administrator that immediately
precedes such Plan Year, elect the payment option that will apply to his or her
Post-2004 Accounts under the Plan, whether or not the individual also elects to
make Elective Deferrals during such enrollment period.  

(3)  Initial
Election for Pre-September 1, 2007 Hire .  If, during a Plan Year, an Eligible Employee
earns for the first time Automatic Contributions and/or Transition Credits (but
not Section 415 Excess Credits), and the benefit the Eligible Employee
earns under the Plan for the Plan Year is equal only to the excess of amounts
that would otherwise be allocated to the Participant s account in the 401(k) Plan
in the absence of one or more limits applicable to tax-qualified plans over the
amount actually credited to the Participant s account in the 401(k) Plan,
the Participant may elect, in accordance with Treas. Reg.
  1.409A-2(a)(7)(iii), the payment option that  

23    

will apply to his or her Post-2004 Accounts under the
Plan during the period determined by the Plan Administrator that ends no later
than January 31st of the calendar year immediately following the calendar
year in which the Automatic and/or Transition Credit is credited, but only if
the Participant:  

i.                 was hired by the Company before September 1, 2007
and has been employed continuously since his or her hire date;  

ii.              was not, during the Plan Year of such credit or any
previous Plan Year beginning on or after the Effective Date, eligible to make
an Elective Deferral;  

iii.           was not previously eligible to elect a payment option
under this subsection (a);  

iv.          has not, in any calendar year prior to
the calendar year of the contribution, accrued a benefit or deferred
compensation under a plan as determined under Treas. Reg.
  1.409A-2(a)(7)(iii).  

(b)  Irrevocability and Default Payment Option .  If a Participant does not make an election
under paragraphs (a)(1), (a)(2), or (a)(3), above (including a Participant who
is not eligible to make an election under any of those paragraphs), the
Participant s initial payment election shall be the payment option described in
subsection 9.02(a) (immediate lump sum), above.  A Participant s initial payment election
(including the default option described in the previous sentence) becomes
irrevocable, and can be changed only in accordance with subsection (c), below,
after (i) the deadline specified in paragraphs (a)(1) or (a)(3), for
Participants eligible to make elections under those paragraphs, and (ii) December 31
of the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year in which the Participant first earns a
credit under the Plan, for all other Participants.  

(c)  Changing Payment Options . 
A Participant may elect, in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan
Administrator, to change the Participant s initial payment option determined
under this Section 9.03, provided that:  

(1) The Participant
must make such election at least 12 months before the date of his 409A
Separation from Service;  

(2) If the election
is made on or after January 1, 2009, the payment date for any lump sum or
the start date for any series of installments provided for under the new
payment option shall be the fifth anniversary of the payment date or start date
that would have applied absent a change in payment option; and  

(3) The Participant
may change his or her payment option:  

24    

i.                 only once during 2008; and  

ii.              only once on or after January 1, 2009.  

9.04.       Payment of Non-Grandfathered Amounts Upon a 409A Separation
from Service.     The value of a Participant s Post-2004
Accounts shall be paid to the Participant upon his or her 409A Separation from
Service on or after the Effective Date in the form and at the time provided in
Sections 9.02 and 9.03, above (except as provided in Section 9.05, below
(special rules for first quarter of 2008)), subject to the following:  

(a)    Delay for 409A Key Employees   . 
If the Participant is a 409A Key Employee on the date of his or her 409A
Separation from Service, the payment date for any lump sum or the start date
for any series of installments provided for under the applicable payment option
shall be the later of (I) the first
business day    that is six
months after the date of the Participant s 409A Separation from Service, or (II) the
otherwise applicable payment date or start date, subject to subsection (b) (death).  If the start date of a series of installments
occurs other than as of  the last
business day in January due to application of this paragraph, installments
after the first installment shall be paid as of the last business day in January of
each subsequent year, as scheduled without regard to the delay described in
this subsection (a).  

(b)  Death of Participant After 409A Separation from Service .  If the death of a Participant (including a
409A Key Employee described in subsection (a), above) occurs before the payment
date for any lump sum or installment provided for under the applicable payment
option, payment shall be made to the Participant s Beneficiary as provided in Section 9.01.  

(c)    Involuntary Cash-Out   . 
If (i) the applicable payment option is the installment option
described in subsection 9.02(c), above, and (ii) the aggregate value of
all of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this purpose,  deferred
shares  as defined in the EDCP) determined as of the date of his or her 409A
Separation from Service is less than 50% of the Pay Limit in effect for the
calendar year in which the Participant s 409A Separation from Service occurs,
the value of the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall be distributed in a
lump sum on the start date that would otherwise have applied for the elected
installments, taking into account any applicable delay for a 409A Key Employee
described in subsection (a), above.  

25    

9.05.       Special Rules for Payment of Non-Grandfathered Amounts
Upon a 409A Separation from Service in First Quarter of 2008.    
If a Participant s 409A Separation from Service occurs on or after January 1,
2008, and before April 1, 2008, the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall
be paid to the Participant in the form and at the time described below, except
that such payments shall be subject to Section 9.04(a) (delay for
409A Key Employees) and Section 9.04(b) (death of Participant after
409A Separation from Service):  

(a)  Non-Retirement-Eligible or Benefit Is Less than $25,000 .  If the Participant is not a
Retirement-Eligible Participant or if the aggregate value of all of the
Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this purpose,  deferred
shares  as defined in the EDCP) is less than $25,000 as of the date of his or
her 409A Separation from Service, the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts shall be
paid in an immediate lump sum as described in Section 9.02(a), above;  

(b)  Retirement-Eligible Without Valid Payment Election .  If the Participant is a Retirement-Eligible
Participant but has not made a valid payment election, the Participant s
Post-2004 Accounts shall be paid in a lump sum as of the last business day in January immediately
following the calendar year of the Participant s 409A Separation from Service
as described in Section 9.02(b), above, provided that the aggregate value
of all of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this
purpose,  deferred shares  as defined in the EDCP) is at least $25,000 as of
the date of his or her 409A Separation from Service.  

(c)  Retirement-Eligible With Valid Payment Election .  If the Participant is a Retirement-Eligible
Participant and has made a valid payment election, the Participant s Post-2004
Accounts shall be paid in accordance with the payment option elected, as
described in Section 9.02, above, provided that the aggregate value of all
of the Participant s Accounts under the Plan (including, for this purpose,  deferred
shares  as defined in the EDCP) is at least $25,000 as of the date of his or
her 409A Separation from Service.  

For purposes of this Section 9.04,
a valid payment election is a payment election made at least six months before
the Participant s 409A Separation from Service in a manner prescribed by the
Plan Administrator.  If a Participant did
not make a valid payment election for his or her Post-2004 Accounts, the
Participant s valid payment election shall be his or her valid payment election
for his or her Pre-2005 Accounts, if any.  

9.06.       Valuation of Non-Grandfathered Accounts.    
For purposes of determining the amount of any payment of the Participant s
Post-2004 Accounts, the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts will be valued as of
the date the payment is processed, except that if payment is required under the
terms of the Plan to be made as of the last business day in January of a
Plan Year (for example, pursuant to Section 9.02(b)), the Participant s
Post-2004 Accounts with respect to such payment shall be valued as of such last
business day in January.  For purposes of
determining the amount of any annual installment payment of the Participant s
Post-2004 Accounts, the  

26    

value of the Participant s Post-2004 Accounts on the
valuation date shall be divided by the remaining number of installments.  No adjustment shall be made to the amount of
any lump sum or installment after the valuation date.  

9.07.       Effect of Rehire on Non-Grandfathered Payments.    
If a Participant becomes eligible for a payment of benefits on account
of a 409A Separation from Service and is rehired as an Employee before his or
her Post-2004 Accounts have been distributed in full, payments shall be made as
if the Participant had not been rehired. 
If the Participant again becomes eligible to make Elective Deferrals or
receive Company Contributions following his or her rehire, the Plan
Administrator shall arrange separate accounting for Elective Deferrals and
Company Contributions (and related earnings, gains, or losses) credited to the
Participant s Post-2004 Accounts following the Participant s rehire, and the
Participant s opportunity to make an initial distribution election under
subsection 9.03(a)(2) (election in Plan Year before initial eligibility)
shall be determined without regard to the benefits earned under the Plan prior
to the Participant s rehire.  

27    

ARTICLE X. ADMINISTRATION   

10.01.         Amendment or Termination.     This Plan may
be amended from time to time for any purpose permitted by law or terminated at
any time by written resolution of the Board or by IBM s chief human resources
officer, but only if the chief human resource officer s action is not
materially inconsistent with a prior action of the Board.    The authority to amend or
terminate the Plan shall include the authority to amend the procedure for
amending or terminating the Plan and the authority to amend or terminate any
related instrument or agreement.  

10.02.     Responsibilities.   

(a) The following
persons and groups of persons shall severally have the authority to control and
manage the operation and administration of the Plan as herein delineated:  

(1) the Board,  

(2) IBM s chief
human resources officer, and  

(  3) the
Plan Administrator and each person on any committee serving as the Plan
Administrator.  

Each person or group of persons shall be responsible
for discharging only the duties assigned to it by the terms of the Plan.  

(b) The Board shall
be responsible only for approval of a resolution in accordance with Section 10.01
to amend or terminate the Plan.  

(c) IBM s chief
human resources officer may, pursuant to a duly adopted resolution, delegate to
any officer or employee of IBM, or a committee thereof, authority to carry out
any decision, directive, or resolution of IBM s chief human resources officer.
IBM s chief human resources officer may appoint one or more executives employed
by IBM to serve as Plan Administrator or as a committee to fulfill the function
of Plan Administrator.  The VP HR with
functional responsibilities for IBM s benefit programs shall serve as the Plan
Administrator if no such appointment is made by IBM s chief human resources
officer.  

(d) In the sole
discretion of the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator shall have the
full power and authority to:  

(1) promulgate and
enforce such rules and regulations as shall be deemed to be necessary or
appropriate for the administration of the Plan;  

(2) adopt any
amendments to the Plan that are required by law;  

(3) interpret the
Plan consistent with the terms and intent thereof; and  

28    

(4) resolve any
possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, and omissions.  

All
such determinations and interpretations shall be in accordance with the terms
and intent of the Plan, and the Plan Administrator shall report such actions to
  IBM s chief human
resources officer on a regular basis  .  

(e) IBM s chief
human resources officer and the Plan Administrator may engage the services of
accountants, attorneys, actuaries, investment consultants, and such other
professional personnel as are deemed necessary or advisable to assist them in
fulfilling their responsibilities under the Plan.  IBM s chief human resources officer, the Plan
Administrator, and their delegates and assistants will be entitled to act on
the basis of all tables, valuations, certificates, opinions, and reports
furnished by such professional personnel.  

29    

ARTICLE XI.  GENERAL PROVISIONS   

11.01.     Funding.   

(a) All amounts
payable in accordance with this Plan shall constitute a general unsecured
obligation of the Company.  Such amounts,
as well as any administrative costs relating to the Plan, shall be paid out of
the general assets of the Company.  In
the sole discretion of IBM s chief human resources officer, a Participant s
accounts under the Plan may be reduced to reflect allocable administrative
expenses.  

(b) The Company, the
IBM s chief human resources officer, and the Plan Administrator do not
guarantee the investment alternatives available under the Plan in any manner
against loss or depreciation.  

11.02.     No Contract of Employment.     Nothing herein
contained shall be deemed to give any employee the right to be retained in the
service of the Company or an affiliate or to interfere with the right of the
Company or an affiliate to discharge any employee at any time without regard to
the effect that such discharge may have upon the employee under the Plan.  Nothing appearing in or done pursuant to the
Plan shall be held or construed to create a contract of employment with the
Company, to obligate the Company to continue the services of any employee, or
to affect or modify any employee s terms of employment in any way or to give
any person any legal or equitable right or interest in the Plan or any part
thereof or distribution therefrom or against the Company except as expressly
provided herein.  

11.03.         Facility of Payment.     In the event
the Plan Administrator determines that any Participant or Beneficiary receiving
or entitled to receive benefits under the Plan is incompetent to care for his
or her affairs and in the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian of the
property of the incompetent, benefit payments due under the Plan (unless prior
claim thereto has been made by a duly qualified guardian, committee, or other
legal representative) may be made to the spouse, parent, brother or sister, or
other person, including a hospital or other institution, deemed by the Plan
Administrator to have incurred or to be liable for expenses on behalf of such
incompetent.  In the absence of the appointment
of a legal guardian of the property of a minor, any minor s share of benefits
payable under the Plan may be paid to such adult or adults as in the opinion of
the Plan Administrator have assumed the custody and principal support of such
minor.    The Plan Administrator,
however, in its sole discretion, may require that a legal guardian for the
property of such incompetent or minor be appointed before authorizing the
payment of benefits in such situation. 
Benefit payments made under the Plan in accordance with determinations
of the Plan Administrator pursuant to this Section 11.03 shall be a
complete discharge of any obligation arising under the Plan with respect to
such benefit payments.  

30    

11.04.     Withholding Taxes.    The Plan Administrator shall have the right to
withhold all applicable taxes or other payments from benefits hereunder and to
report information to government agencies when required to do so by law.  

11.05.     Nonalienation.     No benefits
payable under the Plan shall be subject to alienation, sale, transfer,
assignment, pledge, attachment, garnishment, lien, levy, or like
encumbrance.  No benefit under the Plan
shall in any manner be liable for or subject to the debts or liabilities of any
person entitled to benefits under the Plan. On and after the Effective Date,
compliance with any domestic relations order relating to a Participant s
Account that the Plan Administrator determines must be complied with under
applicable law shall not be considered a violation of this provision; provided,
however, that an administrative fee determined by the Plan Administrator shall
be deducted from any Participant s Account that is subject to a domestic
relations order.  

11.06.     Administration.     All decisions,
determinations, or interpretations the Board, IBM s chief human resources
officer, the Plan Administrator, the Company, or any member, officer or
employee thereof are authorized to make under the Plan (including the
delegation of any authority hereunder to another party) shall be made in that
party s sole discretion and shall be final, binding, and conclusive on all
interested persons.  

11.07.     Construction.     All rights
hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with federal law
and, to the extent not preempted by federal law, the laws of the State of New
York without regarding to the choice of law rules of any jurisdiction.  

31    

ARTICLE XII.      CLAIMS PROCEDURE   

If
a Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to have received
benefits but has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must accept
any payment made under the Plan and make prompt and reasonable, good faith
efforts to collect the remaining portion of the payment, as determined under
Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(g).  For this
purpose (and as determined under such regulation), efforts to collect the
payment will be presumed not to be prompt, reasonable, good faith efforts,
unless the Participant or Beneficiary provides notice to the Plan Administrator
within 90 days of the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely
made in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the regulations under Code Section 409A,
and unless, if not paid, the Participant or Beneficiary takes further
enforcement measures within 180 days after such latest date.  In addition, a Participant or Beneficiary
must exhaust any other claims procedures established by the Plan Administrator
before initiating litigation.  

32    

Appendix A   

IBM EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 2000   

   Incorporating Amendments Effective Through January 1,
2008   

INTRODUCTION   

A.                Name of Plan and Purpose. 
   The IBM Executive
Deferred Compensation Plan has been authorized by the Board of Directors of
International Business Machines to be applicable effective on and after January 1,
1995.  The purpose of this Plan is to
attract and retain executives by providing a means for making compensation
deferrals and matching company contributions for those employees eligible to
participate in the Savings Plan (as defined in Article 1) with respect to
whom compensation deferrals and company contributions under the Savings Plan
are or would be limited by application of the limitations imposed on qualified
plans by Sections 401(a)(17), 401(a)(30), and 415 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the  Code ).  

B.                Legal Status.     This
Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded deferred compensation plan for a select
group of management or highly compensated employees under Sections 201(2),
301(a)(2), 401(a)(1), and 4021(b)(6) of the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, as amended.  All
benefits payable under the Plan shall be paid out of the general assets of the
Company.  

C.            Restatement   .  The Plan is amended and restated herein
effective as of January 1, 2000, incorporating amendments effective
through January 1, 2008.  The Plan
is superseded, effective January 1, 2008, by the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus
Plan (the  Excess Plan ), except as provided in Paragraph D, below, with
respect to Grandfathered Amounts and Deferred Shares and as otherwise provided
in the text of the Plan.  

D.            Section 409A   .  

(1)            Grandfathered
Amounts .  Benefits earned and
vested under the Plan before January 1, 2005, as adjusted for earnings,
gains, or losses on those benefits ( Grandfathered Amounts ) are treated as
grandfathered for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  Grandfathered Amounts (including
Grandfathered Amounts attributable to Deferred Shares) are subject to the terms
of the Plan in effect on October 3, 2004, except to the extent such terms
have been or are hereafter amended in a manner that does not constitute a  material
modification,  as determined under Section 409A of the Code.  An amendment described in the preceding
sentence may be accomplished through an amendment to this Plan document and/or
through an amendment to the Excess Plan (or any successor plan) document.  For recordkeeping purposes, Grandfathered
Amounts shall be accounted for separately.  

(2)            Non-Grandfathered
Amounts .  With respect to
benefits earned under the Plan other than Grandfathered Amounts described in
Paragraph D(1) above ( Non-Grandfathered Amounts ), the Plan is intended,
and shall be construed, to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of
the Code:  

1    

(A)          On and after January 1, 2005, and
before January 1, 2008, the Plan was operated in good faith compliance
with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code with respect to
Non-Grandfathered Amounts.  In this
respect, (I) the timing of deferral elections was modified as described in
Articles 2.02(b) and 2.02(f), (II) the application of deferral
elections was modified as described in Article 3.01, and (III) distribution
rules were modified as described in Article 5.04.  In addition, any payment made during this
period that was contingent upon a  termination of employment  or  retirement, 
was contingent upon a  separation from service  (as defined in accordance with
a good faith, reasonable interpretation of Section 409A of the Code).  

(B)           On and after January 1, 2008:  

(i)            Non-Grandfathered Amounts that are
not attributable to Deferred Shares shall be distributed in accordance with the
provisions of the Excess Plan (or any successor plan).  

(ii)           Non-Grandfathered Amounts that are
attributable to Deferred Shares shall be distributed in accordance with the
provisions of ARTICLE 9 of this Plan.  

Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Paragraph D, in no event shall the Company, its officers, directors, employees,
parents, subsidiaries, or affiliates be liable for any additional tax,
interest, or penalty incurred by a Participant or Beneficiary as a result of
the Plan s failure to satisfy the requirements of Section 409A of the
Code, or as a result of the Plan s failure to satisfy any other applicable
requirements for the deferral of tax.  

2     

IBM
EXECUTIVE DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN   

TABLE
OF CONTENTS   

i    

ii     

ARTICLE 1.   DEFINITIONS   

The following words and phrases as used herein
have the following meanings unless a different meaning is required by the
context:  

1.01                                 Accounts   shall mean the Company Account and the Deferral
Account.  

1.02                                 Beneficiary   shall mean a person other than a Participant
who is designated by a Participant or by the terms of the Plan to receive a
benefit under the Plan by reason of the death of the Participant.  

1.03                                 Board   shall mean the Board of Directors of IBM.  

1.04                                 Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended from time to time.  All citations
to sections of the Code are to such sections as they may from time to time be
amended or renumbered.  

1.05                                 Committee   shall mean the Executive Compensation and
Management Resources Committee ( ECMRC ) appointed by the Board or any other
person or committee that the ECMRC has delegated its responsibilities to under
the Plan.  

1.06                                 Company   shall mean International Business Machines
Corporation ( IBM ), a New York corporation having its principal place of
business at Armonk, New York, and its Domestic Subsidiaries, excluding Foreign
Branches of the Company except as may be otherwise provided in these Articles.  

1.07                                 Company Account   shall mean, with respect to a Participant,
all amounts credited to the Participant under Articles 3.02, 3.03, and 3.07,
and earnings, gains, or losses on those amounts pursuant to Article 3.04.  

1.08                                 Company Contributions   shall mean the amount credited to a
Participant under Articles 3.02 and 3.03.  

1.09                                 Compensation   shall mean the Participant s salary and annual
incentive payment for a calendar year which would be payable to a Participant
for services rendered to the Company after the Participant is no longer able to
actively participate in the Savings Plan, or would have been unable to actively
participate in the Savings Plan if the Participant was not an active
participant in the Savings Plan, during the calendar year by reason of Code Section 401(a)(17)
or Code Section 401(a)(30).  A
Participant s Compensation will be determined without regard to a Participant s
election to make compensation reduction contributions under the Savings Plan,
or under a cafeteria plan pursuant to Code Section 125, or to make
Deferrals under this Plan.  Compensation
shall also include, solely for purposes of Article 3.07, the amount of any
RSUs or performance share units that are determined to be eligible for deferral
in accordance with Article 3.07.  

1    

1.10                                 DCP Participant   shall mean a Participant who, for a
calendar year, was offered the opportunity by the Company to defer up to 100%
of his or her annual incentive payment payable for that calendar year.  

1.11                                 Deferral Account   shall mean, with respect to a Participant,
the Participant s account balance under the Deferred Compensation Plan that has
been transferred to this Plan, all amounts credited to a Participant under Article 3.01
and earnings, gains, or losses on those amounts pursuant to Article 3.04.  

1.12                                 Deferral Election Agreement   shall mean the agreement
entered into by the Participant pursuant to Article 2.02 under which he or
she elects to defer a portion of his or her Compensation under this Plan.  

1.13                                 Deferrals   shall mean the amount credited to a Participant
under Article 3.01.  

1.14                                 Deferred Compensation Plan   shall mean the incentive
compensation deferral program established by IBM in November 1993.  

1.15                                 Deferred Shares   means a credit to a Participant s Company
Account as described in Article 3.07.  

1.16                                 Domestic Subsidiary   shall mean a Subsidiary organized and
existing under the laws of the United States or any state, territory, or
possession thereof; provided however, that the Plan shall not be deemed to
cover the employees of any Domestic Subsidiary unless authorized by the Company s
chief human resources officer.  

1.17                                 ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended from time to time.  

1.18                                 Effective Date   shall mean January 1, 1995.  

1.19                                 Eligible Employee   shall mean, for a calendar year, a
domestic executive employee of the Company.  

1.20                                 Excess Plan   shall mean the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus
Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008, as amended from time to time.  

1.21                                 Grandfathered Amounts   has the meaning provided in Paragraph
D(1) of the Introduction to this Plan.  

1.22                                 IBM   shall mean International Business Machines Corporation,
any predecessor, or any successor by merger, purchase, or otherwise.  

1.23                                 Non-Grandfathered Amounts   has the meaning provided in
Paragraph D(2) of the Introduction to this Plan.  

2    

1.24                                 Participant   shall mean each Eligible Employee who has made
the election described in Article 2.02(a) or 3.07, who is credited
with an amount under Article 3.03, or whose account balance under the
Deferred Compensation Plan has been transferred to the employee s Deferral
Account under this Plan.  

1.25                                 Plan   shall mean this IBM Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan, as now in effect or as hereafter amended.  

1.26                                 Plan Administrator   shall mean a person or a committee
appointed pursuant to ARTICLE 7 which shall be responsible for reporting,
recordkeeping, and related administrative requirements.  If appointed as a committee, any one of the
members of the committee may act individually on behalf of the committee to
fulfill the committee s duties.  As of
the Effective Date, the Director of Executive Compensation has been appointed as
the Plan Administrator.  

1.27                                 Plan Year   shall mean the calendar year with the first Plan
Year commencing on January 1, 1995.  

1.28                                 PSU   shall mean a performance share unit payable under an
award granted under a Company Long-Term Performance Plan.  

1.29                                 RSU   shall mean a restricted stock unit payable under an
award granted under a Company Long-Term Performance Plan.  

1.30                                 Savings Plan   shall mean the IBM TDSP 401(k) Plan
before October 1, 2002, the IBM Savings Plan on or after October 1,
2002 and before January 1, 2008, and the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan on or
after January 1, 2008, each as amended from time to time.  

1.31                                 Subsidiary   shall mean a corporation or other form of
business organization the majority interest of which is owned, directly or
indirectly, by the Company.  

3    

ARTICLE 2.   PARTICIPATION   

2.01                                Eligibility   

Eligibility is limited, except as provided
below, to U.S. executive level Eligible Employees of IBM and selected Domestic
Subsidiaries whose rate of annual Compensation (defined as salary and annual
incentive rate) is $150,000 or more for calendar year 1995 (adjusted
periodically thereafter based on industry trends and government guidelines), or who are members of the Company s
Senior Management Group regardless of rate of annual Compensation.   For this purpose, the defining of  selected
Domestic Subsidiaries , the  executive level  and  Senior Management Group , as
well as the ability to change the rate of annual Compensation threshold are
delegated to the chief human resources officer of the Company in his or her
sole discretion and are subject to change. 
Notwithstanding the above, non-U.S. executives designated by the chief
human resources officer are eligible to elect to defer PSUs and RSUs under this
Plan.  The Committee shall notify
employees of their eligibility for participation in the Plan as soon as
practicable after the chief human resources officer has made its determination
that such employees qualify as Eligible Employees for a calendar year.  

2.02                                Participation   

(a)           No later than the end of the calendar
year immediately preceding the first day of the calendar year during which an
Eligible Employee desires to have contributions credited on his or her behalf
pursuant to Article 3.01, an Eligible Employee must execute a Deferral
Election Agreement authorizing Deferrals under this Plan for such year in
accordance with the provisions of Article 3.01.  

(b)           If an Eligible Employee becomes an
employee of the Company during a calendar year, he or she may execute a
Deferral Election Agreement as soon as practical after his or her date of
hire.  Effective January 1, 2005, a
new Eligible Employee may execute a Deferral Election Agreement within 30 days
after becoming eligible.  The Deferral
Election Agreement shall apply to Compensation earned by the Eligible Employee
in the payroll periods beginning after such agreement is submitted to the
Committee.  

(c)           Each Deferral Election Agreement
under the Plan shall be irrevocable for the calendar year to which it relates.  

(d)           Irrespective of whether an employee
has made the election described above, any employee who has been selected by
the Committee to have Company Contributions credited on his or her behalf
pursuant to Article 3.03 shall be a Participant.  

(e)           As a condition to participation in
the Plan, a Participant may also be required by the Committee to provide such
other information as the Committee may deem necessary to properly administer
the Plan.  

4    

(f)            A DCP Participant s Deferral
Election Agreement with respect to his or her annual incentive payment for
calendar year 2005 must be made on or before June 30, 2005 (in compliance
with the rule for performance pay under Section 409A of the Code).  A DCP Participant s Deferral Election
Agreement with respect to his or her annual incentive payment for a calendar
year that begins after December 31, 2005 must be made before the beginning
of such calendar year.  

2.03                                Application of this Article After 2007   

This Article 2 shall cease to apply after December 31,
2007.  An individual who was not a
Participant on December 31, 2007, shall not become a Participant after
that date.  Each individual who was a
Participant on December 31, 2007, ceased to be a Participant on that date
except to the extent that, on that date, Grandfathered Amounts and/or Deferred
Shares were credited to the individual s Account.  

5    

ARTICLE 3.   CONTRIBUTIONS   

3.01                                 Amount of
Deferral Contributions   

For each payroll period that an Eligible
Employee has Compensation beginning on or after the effective date of an
Eligible Employee s Deferral Election Agreement, his or her Deferral Account
shall be credited with an amount of Deferrals. 
The amount of Deferrals shall be equal to the designated percentage of
Compensation elected by the Participant in his or her Deferral Election
Agreement.  Under the Deferral Election
Agreement, the Eligible Employee may elect to forego receipt of amounts
equivalent to 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%, 5%, 6%, 7%, 8%, 9%, 10%, 11%, 12%, 13%, 14% or
15% (or, effective January 1, 2002,
up to 80% in 1% increments) of the Employee s Compensation (other than
his or her annual incentive payment) for each pay period during which the
election is in effect, and in the event an Eligible Employee is a DCP
Participant for the calendar year, he or she may defer up to 100% of his or her
annual incentive payment for the calendar year (provided that, effective January 1,
2007, if the individual is not an Eligible Employee at the beginning of such
calendar year, the maximum percentage of his or her annual incentive payment
for the calendar year that may be deferred shall be limited, as applicable, in
accordance with the following rules: if the individual became an Eligible
Employee and submitted a Deferral Election Agreement during the period of January 1-February 15
of the calendar year, the maximum percentage is 79%; if the individual became an
Eligible Employee and submitted a Deferral Election Agreement during the period
of February 16-May 15 of the calendar year, the maximum percentage
is  62%; if the individual became an
Eligible Employee and submitted a Deferral Election Agreement during the period
from May 16-August 15 of the calendar year, the maximum percentage is
46%; and if the individual became an Eligible Employee after August 16 of
the calendar year, then no annual incentive may be deferred for the calendar
year).  In addition, any Company officer
who is subject to 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code may defer up to 100%
of his or her salary. For calendar
years 2006 and 2007, any portion of an Eligible Employee s annual incentive
payment that is a deal team or other transactional payment under the Engagement
Team Bonus Plan, the Global Dealmaker Plan, or the Managing Directors Incentive
Plan is not eligible for deferral.  

Deferrals under this Article 3.01 shall
commence for payroll periods for a calendar year at such time as the Participant
may no longer actively participate in the Savings Plan for the calendar year
(or would have been unable to actively participate in the Savings Plan if the
Participant was an active participant in the Savings Plan for the calendar
year) by reason of Code Section 401(a)(17) or Code Section 401(a)(30)
and has Compensation.  No Deferrals may
be made hereunder prior to such time, except for the deferral of a DCP
Participant s annual incentive payment. On and after January 1, 2007, if a
Participant takes a hardship withdrawal under the Savings Plan, Deferrals under
this Article 3.01 will be cancelled for the remainder of the calendar year
in which the hardship was taken.  

6    

3.02                                Matching Contributions   

Effective before January 1,
2005, the amount of Company Matching Contributions credited to a Participant
for each payroll period shall be equal to 50% of the Participant s Deferrals
for the payroll period; provided
however, that no Company Matching Contributions will be made for a
Participant s Deferrals in excess of 6% of the Participant s Compensation for
that payroll period.  Company Matching
Contributions will be made in units of IBM Stock with no right to transfer such
units, except as otherwise provided in this Plan.  

Effective January 1, 2005, the amount of
Company Matching Contributions credited to a Participant who is not a 401(k) Pension
Program Participant (as defined in the Savings Plan) for each payroll period
shall be equal to 50% of such Participant s Deferrals for the payroll period
and, effective January 1, 2005, the amount of Company Matching
Contributions credited to a Participant who is a 401(k) Pension Program
Participant shall be equal to 100% of such Participant s Deferrals for the
payroll period; provided, however, that in neither case shall Company Matching
Contributions be made for a Participant s Deferrals in excess of 6% of the
Participant s Compensation for that payroll period.  Company Matching Contributions will be made
in units of IBM Stock with no right to transfer such units, except as otherwise
provided in this Plan.  No Company
Matching Contributions shall be made to a Participant who is a 401(k) Pension
Program Participant unless such Participant has, on or before the last day of
the payroll period to which such Company Matching Contributions relate,
attained his Program Eligibility Date (as defined in the Savings Plan).  

3.03                                Additional Company Contributions   

On behalf of any Participant, or any Eligible
Employee who is not otherwise a Participant for a particular calendar year, IBM
may make any award under this Plan, including an additional amount of Company
Matching Contributions or other Company Contributions, in accordance with the
terms of the agreement evidencing such award, and the terms of this Plan to the
extent not inconsistent with the terms of the agreement.  

3.04                                 Investment
of Accounts   

A Participant s Deferral Account shall be
treated as if the Participant had invested it in certain Savings Plan
investment funds in accordance with ARTICLE 4. 
Except as provided in Article 3.07 (regarding Deferred Shares), a
Participant s Company Account shall be treated as if it had been invested in
the IBM Stock Fund under the Savings Plan; provided however, that in the event a Participant retires from the
Company and does not elect to have the entire amount of his or her Accounts
then paid to him or her, any amounts credited to the Participant s Company
Account after retirement will be treated as if they were transferred to the Participant s
Deferral Account for purposes of this Article 3.04 and Article 4.  

7    

3.05                                 Vesting of
Accounts   

A Participant always
shall be fully vested in his or her Accounts, except as specified in an agreement
between IBM and a Participant with respect to an award of additional Company
Contributions.  

3.06                                 Individual
Accounts   

The Committee shall maintain, or cause to be
maintained, records showing the individual balances of each Participant s
Accounts.  Periodically, each Participant
shall be furnished with a statement setting forth the value of his or her
Accounts.  

3.07                                 Deferral of
RSUs or Performance Share Units   

A Participant may also
elect, on a form provided by the Company, to defer as Deferred Shares the
amount of any RSUs or PSUs that are determined by the Company to be eligible
for deferral under this Plan, at the time such RSU or PSU would otherwise be
paid to the Participant.  For Deferrals
prior to January 1, 2006, such election must be made at the time specified
by the Plan Administrator and prior to the end of the vesting period of the
PSUs and the RSUs.  On and after January 1,
2006, an election to defer RSUs must be made no later than 30 days after the
date of the grant of such RSUs, and an election to defer PSUs must be made no
later than six months prior to the end of the performance period to which the
PSUs relate.  Notwithstanding the above,
for all Non-U.S. executives who are eligible to defer RSUs or PSUs under this
Plan, an election to defer any RSUs or PSU, must be made prior to the end of
the applicable vesting or performance period. The amount of Deferred Shares
shall be determined under the terms of the applicable award and the Participant s
deferral election and shall be credited to the Participant s Company Account as
units of IBM stock, with no right to transfer such units.  No Company Matching Contributions shall be
credited for any amounts deferred under this Article of the Plan.  

3.08                                 Application
of this Article After 2007   

After December 31, 2007:  

(a)            Deferrals with respect to annual
incentive payments paid during the first quarter of 2008 shall be determined
and credited to Participants  Accounts in accordance with Participant Deferral
Election Agreements made in 2006 for payments with respect to 2007 pursuant to
Articles 2.02 and 3.01, and such deferrals shall be credited under the Excess
Plan (and any matching or other contributions with respect to such deferrals
shall be determined under the Excess Plan);  

(b)            Deferred Shares shall continue to be
credited as units of IBM stock in accordance with elections made by
Participants on or before December 31, 2007 pursuant to Article 3.07;
and  

8    

(c)             Articles 3.04 through 3.06 shall
continue to apply with respect to Grandfathered Amounts.  

Otherwise, this ARTICLE 3 shall cease to apply
after December 31, 2007, and no deferral elections shall be made under the
Plan after that date.  

9    

ARTICLE 4.   INVESTMENT OF DEFERRALS AND DEFERRAL
ACCOUNTS   

4.01                                Deemed Savings Plan Investments; Participant
Control   

A Participant shall designate the proportions in
which his or her Deferrals shall be treated as if they had been allocated among
any or all of the investment funds under the Savings Plan, other than the
mutual fund window.  If the Participant
does not provide investment instructions, his or her Deferrals shall be treated
as if they had been allocated to the default investment fund under the Savings
Plan.  

The Committee, in its discretion (which
discretion may be delegated to the Treasurer or other executive officer of
IBM), from time to time may determine that any Savings Plan investment fund may
be terminated as an investment measure under this Plan.  

A Participant may elect to invest his or her
Deferrals entirely in any one of the funds or may elect any combination in 5%
multiples.  

Notwithstanding anything else in ARTICLE 4, if
any portion of a Participant s Deferrals are covered under the IBM Buy-First
Executive Equity Program, such Deferrals are subject to the investment
limitations specified under that program.  

4.02                                 Change of Investment
Selection on Future Deferrals   

A Participant may elect to change his or her
investment selection for future Deferrals once per month (and, effective January 1,
2002, twice per month).  The Participant
must make this election in the manner prescribed by the Committee.  

4.03                                 Change of Investment
Selection on Existing Deferral Accounts   

(a)            Before January 1, 2008, with
regard to a Participant s existing Deferral Account balance, a Participant may
elect to transfer balances among the available Savings Plan investment funds
once per month; provided however,
that the portion of the Deferral Account of a Company officer that is allocated
to the IBM Stock Fund may not be transferred to another investment fund while
the officer remains in Company employment. 
The Participant must make this election in the manner and pursuant to
the rules prescribed by the Committee and Plan Administrator.  

(b)            On or after January 1, 2008, a
Participant may elect, in such form and at such time in advance as may be
prescribed by the Plan Administrator, to transfer balances in his or her
Deferral Account among the available Savings Plan investment funds, provided
that:  

(ii)          Transfers must be made in multiples of
1%, provided that the minimum amount transferred shall be $250 if that is
greater than 1% (provided, however, that the Plan Administrator may specify a
different percentage and/or a different dollar amount to be applied in this
paragraph); and  

10    

(iii)        Any restrictions on transfers into or
out of investment funds that apply under the Savings Plan shall also apply
under the Plan.  

The Committee may impose such additional rules and
limitations upon transfers between investment funds as the Committee may
consider necessary or appropriate.  

4.04                                 Application
of this Article After 2007   

Article 4.03 shall continue to apply to Grandfathered
Amounts on and after January 1, 2008. 
Articles 4.01 and 4.02 shall cease to apply after December 31,
2007.  

11    

ARTICLE 5.   PAYMENT OF ACCOUNTS   

5.01                                 Commencement of Deferral
Payments   

A Participant shall receive payment of his or
her Accounts upon the Participant s (1) termination of employment from the
Company for any reason other than retirement from the Company or (2) retirement
from the Company with a balance of less than $25,000 in his or her Accounts, as
soon as administratively feasible following termination of employment. Any
other Participant who retires from the Company shall be entitled to receive
payment of his or her Accounts as of the January 31 following the calendar
year during which the Participant had a termination of employment from the
Company.  

5.02                                 Method of Payment   

Payment of Accounts shall be made in a single
lump sum payment. Payments shall be in cash, except that Deferred Shares shall
be paid in shares of IBM stock.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant
with a balance of at least $25,000 in his or her Accounts who retires from the
Company may elect to receive (1) a lump sum payment upon his or her
termination of employment from the Company, (2) a lump sum payment as of
the January 31 following the calendar year during which the Participant
has a termination of employment from the Company, or (3) up to ten ratable
annual installment payments of the balance in his or her Accounts commencing as
of the January 31 following the calendar year during which the Participant
had a termination of employment from the Company.  For this election to be effective, at least
one full calendar year must pass between the calendar year the Participant
makes the election and the calendar year the Participant has a termination of
employment from the Company; provided, however, that:  

(i)          effective July 31, 2001 and
before January 1, 2008, such election shall be effective if it is made at
least six months in advance of, and in a calendar year preceding, the
Participant s termination of employment; and  

(ii)        effective January 1, 2008, such
election shall be effective if it is made at least twelve months in advance of
the Participant s termination of employment.  

The Participant must make this election in the
manner prescribed by the Committee and may make a separate election with
respect to any Deferred Shares allocated to his or her Company Account. For
purposes of this Plan,  retires  means (I) attainment of at least age 55
with at least 15 years of service or age 62 with at least 5 years of service or
at least age 65 with at least 1 year of service at termination of employment
with the Company, (II) attainment of at least 25 years of service as of June 30,
1999, and completion of at least 30 years of service as of termination of
employment with the Company, (III) attainment, as of June 30, 1999,
of at least age 40 with at least 10 years of service and completion of at least
30 years of service as of termination of employment with the Company, or (IV) eligibility
for benefits under the IBM Long-  

12    

Term Disability Plan (and for purposes of this
Plan, termination of employment shall be deemed to have occurred coincident
with eligibility for benefits under the IBM Long-Term Disability Plan).  

Upon application of a Participant, the Committee
may authorize earlier payment to the Participant after termination of
employment with the Company of an amount reasonably needed to satisfy the
emergency need caused by an unforeseeable emergency that causes severe
financial hardship to the Participant. 
If a Participant dies before payment of the entire balance of his or her
Accounts, an amount equal to the unpaid portion thereof as of the date of his
or her death shall be payable in one lump sum to his or her Beneficiary.  

Dividend equivalents allocated with respect to a
Participant s Deferred Shares will be paid to the Participant in cash on the
date dividends are paid to IBM shareholders, or as soon as practical thereafter
(but, with respect to Non-Grandfathered Amounts, no later than the latest date
permissible under Section 409A of the Code).  

Effective January 1, 2005, payment of
Accounts (including in the event of a Participant s death as described in the
preceding sentence) shall be made based on the value of the Account as of the
date such payment is processed.  

5.03                                 Designation of Beneficiary   

Before January 1, 2008, each Participant s
Beneficiary under this Plan shall automatically be the person or persons
designated as the Participant s beneficiary under the Savings Plan even if such
designation is found to be invalid under the provisions of ERISA or the
Code.  If no such Beneficiary designation
is in effect at the time of the Participant s death, or if no designated
Beneficiary survives the Participant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be
deemed to be the Participant s beneficiary according to the provisions of the
Savings Plan.  

On or after January 1, 2008, each
Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan shall be the person or persons
designated as the Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan, in the form and
manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator. 
If no such beneficiary designation is in effect under the Plan at the
time of the Participant s death, or if no designated beneficiary under the Plan
survives the Participant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the person or
persons determined to be the Participant s beneficiary under the Savings Plan
(including the default beneficiary rules under the latter plan, if no
beneficiary is designated under that plan).  

Such Beneficiary shall be entitled to receive
the lump sum amount, if any, payable under the Plan upon the Participant s
death pursuant to this Article 5.03; provided however, that the Beneficiary is alive at the time of the
Participant s death.  

5.04                                 Distributions
to Specified Employees   

Notwithstanding any
provision in this ARTICLE 5 to the contrary, any payment of Non-Grandfathered
Amounts under the Plan that becomes payable to a Participant  

13    

who is a  specified
employee  (within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the
Code) within the first six months following his or her separation from service
on or after January 1, 2005, shall instead be paid in the seventh month
following such separation from service. 
If Non-Grandfathered Amounts are paid in installments the first of which
would otherwise be paid before January 1, 2008, and in the first six
months following the Participant s separation from service, the first
installment shall instead be paid in the seventh month following a separation
from service, and the next annual installment, and each annual installment
thereafter shall be paid on the anniversary of the date that the first
installment was paid.  

5.05                                 Application
of this Article After 2007   

This ARTICLE 5 shall apply on and after January 1,
2008 only with respect to Grandfathered Amounts.  

14    

ARTICLE 6.   GENERAL PROVISIONS   

6.01                                 Funding   

(a)             All amounts payable in accordance
with this Plan shall constitute a general unsecured obligation of the
Company.  Such amounts, as well as any
administrative costs relating to the Plan, shall be paid out of the general
assets of the Company, to the extent not paid by a grantor trust established
pursuant to paragraph (b) below.  In
the sole discretion of the Committee, a Participant s Accounts may be reduced
to reflect allocable administrative expense.  

(b)            IBM may, for administrative reasons,
establish a grantor trust for the benefit of Participants participating in the
Plan.  The assets of said trust will be
held separate and apart from other Company funds and shall be used exclusively
for the purposes set forth in the Plan and the applicable trust agreement,
subject to the following conditions:  

(i)           The creation of said trust shall not
cause the Plan to be other than  unfunded  for purposes of Title I of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended;  

(ii)         The
Company shall be treated as  grantor  of said trust for purposes of Section 677
of the Code; and  

(iii)        Said trust agreement shall provide that
its assets may be used to satisfy claims of the Company s general creditors in
the event of its insolvency, and the rights of such general creditors are
enforceable by them under federal and state law.  

(c)            Neither the Company nor the
Committee guarantees the investment alternatives available under the Plan in
any manner against loss or depreciation.  

6.02                                 No Contract of Employment   

Nothing herein contained shall be deemed to give
any employee the right to be retained in the service of the Company or an
Affiliate or to interfere with the right of the Company or an Affiliate to
discharge any employee at any time without regard to the effect that such
discharge may have upon the employee under the Plan.  Nothing appearing in or done pursuant to the
Plan shall be held or construed to create a contract of employment with the
Company, to obligate the Company to continue the services of any Employee, or
to affect or modify any Employee s terms of employment in any way or to give
any person any legal or equitable right or interest in the Plan or any part
thereof or distribution therefrom or against the Company except as expressly
provided herein.  

15    

6.03                                   Facility of Payment   

In the event the Plan
Administrator determines that any Participant or Beneficiary receiving or
entitled to receive benefits under the Plan is incompetent to care for his or
her affairs and in the absence of the appointment of a legal guardian of the
property of the incompetent, benefit payments due under the Plan (unless prior
claim thereto has been made by a duly qualified guardian, committee, or other
legal representative) may be made to the spouse, parent, brother or sister, or
other person, including a hospital or other institution, deemed by the Plan
Administrator to have incurred or to be liable for expenses on behalf of such
incompetent.  In the absence of the
appointment of a legal guardian of the property of a minor, any minor s share
of benefits payable under the Plan may be paid to such adult or adults as in
the opinion of the Plan Administrator have assumed the custody and principal
support of such minor.  

The Plan Administrator, however, in its sole
discretion, may require that a legal guardian for the property of any such
incompetent or minor be appointed before authorizing the payment of benefits in
such situation. Benefit payments made under the Plan in accordance with
determinations of the Plan Administrator pursuant to this ARTICLE 6 shall be a
complete discharge of any obligation arising under the Plan with respect to
such benefit payments.  

6.04                                   Withholding Taxes   

The Plan Administrator shall have the right to
withhold all applicable taxes or other payments from benefits hereunder and to
report information to government agencies when required to do so by law.  

6.05                                   Nonalienation   

No benefits payable under the Plan shall be
subject to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, attachment,
garnishment, lien, levy, or like encumbrance. 
No benefit under the Plan shall in any manner be liable for or subject
to the debts or liabilities of any person entitled to benefits under the
Plan.  However, compliance with any
domestic relations order relating to a Participant s Account that the Plan
Administrator determines must be complied with under applicable law shall not
be considered a violation of this provision.  

6.06                                   Administration   

All decisions, determinations, or
interpretations the Board, the Committee, the Plan Administrator, the Company
or any member, officer or employee thereof are authorized to make under the
Plan (including the delegation of any authority hereunder to another party)
shall be made in that party s sole discretion and shall be final, binding, and
conclusive on all interested persons.  

16    

6.07                                   Construction   

The
Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded deferred compensation arrangement
for a select group of management or highly compensated employees, and all
rights hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws
of the State of New York to the extent not governed by the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.  

6.08                                   Application of this Article After 2007   

Effective January 1, 2008, the provisions
of this Article 6 shall be superseded by the provisions of Article X
of the Excess Plan for any portion of a Participant s Accounts that is not
attributable to Deferred Shares.  

17    

ARTICLE 7.   MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION   

7.01                                   Amendment or Termination   

This Plan may be amended from time to time for
any purpose permitted by law or terminated at any time by written resolution of
the Board or the Committee, but only if the Committee s action is not
materially inconsistent with a prior action of the Board.  

The authority to amend or terminate the Plan
shall include the authority to amend the procedure for amending or terminating
the Plan and the authority to amend or terminate any related instrument or
agreement.  

7.02                                   Responsibilities   

(a)                The
following persons and groups of persons shall severally have the authority to
control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan as herein
delineated:  

(i)                  the
Board,  

(ii)                the
Committee,  

(iii)               the
chief human resources officer, and  

(iv)               the
Plan Administrator and each person on any committee serving as the Plan
Administrator.  

Each person or group of persons shall be
responsible for discharging only the duties assigned to it by the terms of the
Plan.  

(b)                The
Board shall be responsible only for designating those persons who will serve on
the Committee and for approval of any resolution to amend or terminate the
Plan.  

(c)                The
Committee may, pursuant to a duly adopted resolution, delegate to the chief
financial officer or the chief human resources officer, the Treasurer, the Plan
Administrator or any other officer or employee of IBM, authority to carry out
any decision, directive, or resolution of the Committee.  

(d)                The
Committee shall appoint one or more executives employed by IBM to serve as Plan
Administrator or as a committee to fulfill the function of Plan
Administrator.  In the sole discretion of
the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator shall have the full power and
authority to:  

(i)                  promulgate
and enforce such rules and regulations as shall be deemed be necessary or
appropriate for the administration of the Plan;  

18    

(ii)                adopt
any amendments to the Plan that are required by law;  

(iii)               interpret
the Plan consistent with the terms and intent thereof;     and  

(iv)               resolve
any possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, and omissions.  

All such determinations and interpretations
shall be in accordance with the terms and intent of the Plan, and the Plan
Administrator shall report such actions to the Committee on a regular
basis.  Additionally, the chief human
resources officer shall appoint and designate such other IBM employees as may
be needed to provide adequate staff services to the Committee and the Plan
Administrator.  

(e)                 The
Committee and the Plan Administrator may engage the services of accountants,
attorneys, actuaries, investment consultants, and such other professional
personnel as are deemed necessary or advisable to assist them in fulfilling
their responsibilities under the Plan. 
The Committee, the Plan Administrator, and their delegates and
assistants will be entitled to act on the basis of all tables, valuations,
certificates, opinions, and reports furnished by such professional personnel.  

(f)                 Effective
July 31, 2001, the chief human resources officer of IBM, in addition to
the powers set forth in Article 7.02(d), shall have the full power and
authority to adopt and implement changes to the Plan relating to:  

(i)                 amending
the Plan to conform, to the extent he or she deems appropriate, to the Savings
Plan, including but not limited to the authority to make changes related to
maximum deferral percentages of pay, the amount of IBM match provided based on
deferral percentage selected by the Participant, and vesting provisions;  

(ii)                the
form and timing of distributions available under the Plan, including the
procedures for distribution elections and rules regarding default distributions;  

(iii)               deferral
elections, including the manner and timing of such elections;  

(iv)               the
integration of other deferred compensation liabilities relating to newly hired
or acquired employees; and  

(v)                any
Plan administration rules that are consistent with the intent of the Plan
and do not materially change the Company s liability.  

19    

7.03                                   Application of this Article After 2007   

Effective January 1,
2008, the provisions of this Article 7 shall be superseded by the
provisions of Article IX of the Excess Plan for any portion of a
Participant s Accounts that is not attributable to Deferred Shares.  

20    

ARTICLE 8.   CLAIMS PROCEDURE   

Before January 1, 2008, IBM s Executive
Compensation Department is responsible for advising Participants and
Beneficiaries of their benefits under the Plan. 
In the event a Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled
to benefits and has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must
submit a claim to the Director of Executive Compensation, IBM Corporation, New
Orchard Road, Armonk, New York 10504.  A
written decision setting forth its conclusions will be furnished by the Plan
Administrator to the Participant or Beneficiary within 60 days after the
request for review is received.  Failure
of the Plan Administrator to follow this procedure shall not, in and of itself,
give rise to a cause of action for benefits hereunder.  On and after January 1, 2008, claims shall
be processed as described in the summary description for the Excess Plan.  

Effective January 1, 2008, if a Participant
or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to have received benefits with
respect to his or her Non-Grandfathered Amounts that are attributable to
Deferred Shares but has not received them, the Participant or Beneficiary must
accept any payment made under the Plan and make prompt and reasonable, good
faith efforts to collect the remaining portion of the payment, as determined
under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(g).  For
this purpose (and as determined under such regulation), efforts to collect the
payment will be presumed not to be prompt, reasonable, good faith efforts,
unless the Participant or Beneficiary provides notice to the Plan Administrator
within 90 days of the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely
made in accordance with the terms of the Plan and the regulations under Code Section 409A,
and unless, if not paid, the Participant or Beneficiary takes further enforcement
measures within 180 days after such latest date.  In addition, a Participant or Beneficiary
must exhaust any other claims procedures established by the Plan Administrator
before initiating litigation.  

21    

ARTICLE 9.   PAYMENT OF NON-GRANDFATHERED DEFERRED SHARES 
ON OR AFTER JANUARY 1, 2008   

9.01                                   Purpose   

This ARTICLE 9
describes the provisions of the Plan that apply on and after January 1,
2008 to Non-Grandfathered Amounts that are attributable to Deferred Shares ( NG
Deferred Shares ).  

9.02                                   Definitions   

The following words
and phrases used in this ARTICLE 9 have the following meanings unless a
different meaning is required by the context:  

(a)                   409A Key Employee   has the meaning described in the IBM Section 409A
Umbrella Document.  

(b)                  409A Separation from Service   has the meaning described in
the IBM Section 409A Umbrella Document.  

(c)                  Pay Limit   means, for a Plan Year, the limit on compensation
that may be taken into account under a tax-qualified plan as determined under
Code Section 401(a)(17).  

(d)                  Retirement-Eligible Participant   means a Participant who:  

(i)                  when
his or her 409A Separation from Service occurs, is (A) at least age 55
with at least 15 years of service, (B) at least age 62 with at least 5
years of service, (C) at least age 65 with at least 1 year of service, or (D) begins
to receive benefits under the Company s long-term disability plan;  

(ii)                as
of June 30, 1999, had at least 25 years of service and, when his or her 409A
Separation from Service occurs, has at least 30 years of service; or  

(iii)               as
of June 30, 1999, was at least age 40 with at least 10 years of service
and, when his or her 409A Separation from Service occurs, has at least 30 years
of service.  

For purposes of this definition,  year of
service  means a year of  Eligibility Service  as defined in the IBM Personal
Pension Plan.  

9.03                                   Payment
Upon Death   

If a Participant dies
before his or her NG Deferred Shares are distributed in full, his or her NG
Deferred Shares shall be paid in full in shares of IBM stock to the Participant s
Beneficiary on the date that is 30 days after the date of the Participant s
death (or, if that date is not a business day, the first business day
thereafter).  However, the Plan Administrator
may make payment on any other day to the extent   

22    

that such payment is
treated as being paid on the date specified in the previous sentence under
Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which permits payment to be made
within thirty days before the specified date and later within the same calendar
year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months following the specified date, provided
that the Participant is not permitted to designate the taxable year of payment.  

9.04                                   Form of
Payment for Amounts Paid Upon a 409A Separation from Service   

A Participant may
elect, at the time and in the manner described in Article 9.05, below, to
have his or her NG Deferred Shares paid under one of the following options,
subject to the limits in Article 9.06, below (regarding delays for 409A
Key Employees) and Article 9.07, below (special rules for separations
during the first quarter of 2008):  

(a)                A
lump sum payment as of the first business day that is at least 30 days after
the Participant s 409A Separation from Service;  

(b)                A
lump sum payment as of January 31 of the calendar year immediately
following the calendar year in which the Participant s 409A Separation from
Service occurs; or  

(c)                From
two to 10 annual installments (as elected by the Participant), each paid as of January 31
beginning with the January 31 immediately following the calendar year in
which the Participant s 409A Separation from Service occurs, until the elected
number of installments have been paid, subject to Article 9.06(c) (involuntary
cash-outs).  This installment option is
treated as the entitlement to a single payment for purposes of Treasury
Regulation section 1.409A-2(b)(2)(iii).  

However, the Plan Administrator may make payment
on any other day to the extent that such payment is treated as being paid on
the date specified above under Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-3(d), which
permits payment to be made within thirty days before the specified date and
later within the same calendar year, or, if later, within 2-1/2 months
following the specified date, provided that the Participant is not permitted to
designate the taxable year of payment.  A
Participant s NG Deferred Shares shall be paid in shares of IBM stock.  

9.05                                   Electing
and Changing Payment Options   

(a)                  Election of Payment Option.     A
Participant shall elect a payment option for his or her NG Deferred Shares in
the form and manner prescribed by the Plan Administrator and during the special
election period in 2007 (except as provided in Article 9.07, below, with
respect to a separation during the first quarter of 2008).  During the special election period designated
by the Plan Administrator and ending no later than December 31, 2007, an
Eligible Employee may elect the payment option that will apply to his or her NG
Deferred Shares under the Plan in the event his or her 409A Separation from
Service occurs on or after April 1, 2008, if the Eligible Employee:  

23    

(i)                                            is
eligible to make elective deferrals under the Excess Plan in 2008;  

(ii)                                         on
October 31, 2007, had a balance in his or her Accounts; or  

(iii)                                      on
October 31, 2007, had a valid election on file for Deferrals in 2007.  

Accordingly, an
individual who first became an executive after October 31, 2007, and who
is not eligible to make elective deferrals under the Excess Plan in 2008, is
not eligible to make a payment election under this paragraph (a), even if he or
she deferred pay under the Plan in 2007.  

(b)                 Irrevocability and Default Payment Option.     If a Participant does not make an election
under subsection (a), above (including a Participant who is not eligible to
make an election under that subsection), the Participant s initial payment
election shall be the payment option described in Article 9.04(a) (immediate
lump sum), above.  A Participant s
initial payment election (including the default option described in the
previous sentence) becomes irrevocable, and can be changed only in accordance
with subsection (c), below, after the deadline specified in subsection (a).  

(c)                 Changing Payment Options.     A
Participant may elect, in the form and manner prescribed by the Plan
Administrator, to change the Participant s initial payment option determined
under this Article 9.05, provided that:  

(i)                  The
Participant must make such election at least 12 months before the date of his
409A Separation from Service;  

(ii)                If
the election is made on or after January 1, 2009, the payment date for any
lump sum or the start date for any series of installments provided for under
the new payment option shall be the fifth anniversary of the payment date or
start date that would have applied absent a change in payment option; and  

(iii)               The
Participant may change his or her payment option:  

(A)                only once during 2008;
and  

(B)                 only once on or after January 1,
2009.  

24    

9.06                                   Payment
of NG Deferred Shares Upon a 409A Separation from Service   

A Participant s NG
Deferred Shares shall be paid to the Participant upon his or her 409A Separation from Service on or after January 1,
2008 in the form and at the time provided in Articles 9.04 and 9.05, above
(except as provided in Article 9.07, below (special rules for first
quarter of 2008)), subject to the following:  

(a)                 Delay for 409A Key Employees.     If the Participant is a 409A Key Employee on
the date of his or her 409A Separation from Service, the payment date for any
lump sum or the start date for any series of installments provided for under
the applicable payment option shall be the later of (I) the first business
day that is six months after the date of the Participant s 409A Separation from
Service, or (II) the otherwise applicable payment date or start date,
subject to subsection (b) (death). 
If the start date of a series of installments occurs other than as of January 31
due to application of this paragraph, installments after the first installment
shall be paid as of January 31 of each subsequent year, as scheduled
without regard to the delay described in this subsection (a).  

(b)                   Death of Participant After 409A Separation from
Service.     If the death of a Participant (including a
409A Key Employee described in subsection (a), above) occurs before the payment
date for any lump sum or installment provided for under the applicable payment
option, payment shall be made to the Participant s Beneficiary as provided in Article 9.03.  

(c)                     Involuntary Cash-Out.     If (i) the applicable payment option is
the installment option described in Article 9.04(c),
above, and (ii) the aggregate value of all of the Participant s Deferred
Shares (including Grandfathered and Non-Grandfathered Amounts) and all of his
or her  accounts  under the Excess Plan determined as of the date of his or her
409A Separation from Service is less than 50% of the Pay Limit in effect for
the calendar year in which the Participant s 409A Separation from Service
occurs, the Participant s NG Deferred Shares shall be distributed in a lump sum
on the start date that would otherwise have applied for the elected
installments, taking into account any applicable delay for a 409A Key Employee
described in subsection (a), above.  

9.07                                   Special
Rules for Payment in First Quarter of 2008   

If a Participant s 409A Separation from Service
occurs on or after January 1, 2008, and before April 1, 2008, the
Participant s NG Deferred Shares shall be paid to the Participant in the form
and at the time described below, except that such payments shall be subject to Article 9.06(a) (delay
for 409A Key Employees) and Article 9.06(b) (death of Participant
after 409A Separation from Service):  

(a)                 Non-Retirement-Eligible or Benefit Is Less than
$25,000.     If the Participant is not a
Retirement-Eligible Participant or if the aggregate value of all of the
Participant s Deferred Shares (including Grandfathered and Non-Grandfathered
Amounts) and all of his or her  accounts  under the Excess Plan is less than
$25,000   

25    

as of the date
of his or her 409A Separation from Service, the Participant s NG Deferred
Shares shall be paid in an immediate lump sum as described in Article 9.04(a),
above;  

(b)                 Retirement-Eligible Without Valid Payment
Election.     If the Participant is a
Retirement-Eligible Participant but has not made a valid payment election, the
Participant s NG Deferred Shares shall be paid in a lump sum as of the January 31
following the year of the Participant s 409A Separation from Service as
described in Article 9.04(b), above, provided that the aggregate value of
all of the Participant s Deferred Shares (including Grandfathered and
Non-Grandfathered Amounts) and all of his or her  accounts  under the Excess
Plan is at least $25,000 as of the date of his or her 409A Separation from
Service.  

(c)                 Retirement-Eligible With Valid Payment Election.     If the
Participant is a Retirement-Eligible Participant and has made a valid payment
election, the Participant s NG Deferred Shares shall be paid in accordance with
the payment option elected, as described in Article 9.04, above, provided
that the aggregate value of all of the Participant s Deferred Shares (including
Grandfathered and Non-Grandfathered Amounts) and all of his or her  accounts 
under the Excess Plan is at least $25,000 as of the date of his or her 409A
Separation from Service.  

For purposes of this Article 9.07,
a valid payment election is a payment election made at least six months before
the Participant s 409A Separation from Service in a manner prescribed by the
Plan Administrator.  If a Participant did
not make a valid payment election for his or her NG Deferred Shares, the
Participant s valid payment election shall be his or her valid payment election
for his or her Deferred Shares that are Grandfathered Amounts, if any.  

9.08                                   Valuation
of NG Deferred Shares.   

For purposes of
determining the amount of any lump sum, the Participant s NG Deferred Shares
will be determined as of the date the payment is processed.  For purposes of determining the amount of any
annual installment, the Participant s remaining NG Deferred Shares will be
determined as of the date the payment is processed and divided by the remaining
number of installments.  Any resulting
partial share is retained in the Participant s Account.  

9.09                                   Effect
of Rehire on Payment of NG Deferred Shares.   

If a Participant
becomes eligible for a payment of NG Deferred Shares on account of a 409A
Separation from Service and is rehired as an employee of the Company before his
or her NG Deferred Shares have been distributed in full, payments shall be made
as if the Participant had not been rehired.  

9.10                                   Payment of Dividend Equivalents on NG Deferred Shares.   

Dividend equivalents allocated with respect to a
Participant s NG Deferred Shares will be paid to the Participant (or to the Beneficiary of a deceased Participant)
in cash   

26    

as soon as practicable after, but no later than
30 days following, the date dividends are paid to IBM shareholders.  

27    

APPENDIX B   

   IBM SECTION 409A UMBRELLA DOCUMENT   

For purposes of plans of   International Business
Machines or any member of its controlled group as determined under  414(b) or
(c) of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively,  IBM ) that are subject to
  409A of the Internal Revenue Code (   409A ), any benefit subject
to   409A that is paid on account of a separation from service shall be
paid on account of a  409A Separation from Service,  as defined below.  In addition, for purposes of applying the
six-month delay described in   409A(a)(2)(B)(i), a  specified employee  is
a 409A Key Employee, as defined below.  

1.     The term   409A Key Employee   means, for each
12-consecutive-month period beginning on any April 1 that occurs after January 1,
2008 (an  effective period ), an individual who is a  specified employee  of IBM
(within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(i)) within the 12-consecutive-month
period ending on the December 31 immediately preceding the start of such
effective period.  For purposes of the preceding
sentence,  specified employees  include:  

(a)                 each
employee of IBM on IBM s U.S. payroll, not to exceed 50, who is designated by
IBM as an officer and whose pay (as defined under   Treas. Reg.
  1.415(c)-2(d)(4)) exceeds the      dollar limitation under   416(i)(1)(A)(i) of
the Internal Revenue Code (   416 Pay Limit  plus  

(b)                 the
highest paid Band A executives (as defined by   IBM s rules and regulations)   on IBM s U.S. payroll whose pay exceeds the   416 Pay Limit (where
pay is defined under   Treas. Reg.   1.415(c)-2(d)(4)), such that, when
combined with the employees in subsection (a) (designated officers), there
are no more than 50  specified employees  on IBM s U.S. payroll; plus  

(c)                 if
the total number of individuals designated as  specified employees  under
subsections (a) and (b) is less than 50, the highest paid other employees
on IBM s U.S. payroll (where pay is defined under   Treas. Reg.  
1.415(c)-2(d)(4)), such that, when combined with the employees in subsections (a) (designated
officers) and (b) (Band A executives), there are no more than 50  specified
employees  on IBM s U.S. payroll; plus  

(d)                 each
employee of IBM who:  (1) is
entitled to a benefit that is subject to   409A, (2) is not on a U.S.
payroll, and (3) is considered to be an officer for purposes of
identifying  specified employees  under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(i).  

2.     The term   409A Separation from Service   means,
effective January 1, 2009, a separation from service within the meaning of
Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h), which shall include, but not be limited to, the
following events:  

(a)                 A  termination of
employment,  as that term is applied for purposes of the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan (except to the extent that an earlier event associated with such
termination of employment is described in subsections (b) through (d),
below);  

(b)                 The start of a bridge leave
or a pre-retirement planning leave;  

(c)                 A permanent reduction in
services to no more than 20% of the average level of services performed over
the immediately preceding 36-month period (or the full period of services if
less);  

(d)                 The six-month anniversary of
a leave of absence, when no services are performed (including paid and unpaid
leave and including disability leave or any combination thereof) other than a
military leave.  

From
January 1, 2008 through December 31, 2008, a  409A Separation from
Service  means a good faith interpretation of  separation from service,  within
the meaning of   409A(a)(2)(A)(i), and includes the following rules:  

i.                        A Participant who is on a
bridge leave or a pre-retirement planning leave as of December 31, 2007,
shall have a 409A Separation from Service as of December 31, 2007;  

ii.                    If a Participant   

(1)                                    during 2008 has an event
described in paragraph (c) or has a six-month anniversary described in paragraph
(d),  

(2)                                    does not otherwise incur a
separation from service prior to December 31, 2008, and  

(3)                                    has not returned to active
employment (or, in the case of an event described in (c), to full schedule
employment) on or before December 31, 2008,  

the
Participant shall have a 409A Separation from Service as of December 31,
2008.  

2    

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 4
 a2195966zex-10_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.2

EXHIBIT 10.2   

Note   :  This exhibit reflects an amendment
to the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan to incorporate required changes under Section 415
of the Internal Revenue Code.  

IBM 401(k) Plus Plan   

   (As Amended and Restated January 1, 2008)   

AMENDMENT No. 1   

   Instrument of Amendment   

Recitals:   

International
Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) has established and maintains the IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan (the  Plan ), a qualified retirement plan that meets the requirements of Section 401(a) of
the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ) and that includes a cash or deferred
arrangement within the meaning of Section 401(k) of the Code:  

In
accordance with Section 13.01 of the Plan, the Plan Administrator is
authorized to adopt amendments to the Plan that are required to comply with changes
in the law and that are necessary to maintain the tax-qualified status of the
Plan.  

In
order to comply with the final regulations under Code Section 415, the
Plan shall be amended, in the manner set forth in this instrument, to be
effective as specified herein  

Amendment   :  

1.                 Section 1.15 of the
Plan is amended to add the following immediately after the last sentence of
such Section:  

Notwithstanding
the foregoing, effective with respect to Plan Years beginning on or after January 1,
2008, Compensation for purposes of determining Deferred Cash Contributions
shall not include amounts that are excluded from compensation under Section 1.415(c)-2
of the Regulations.   

2.                 Section 1.51 of the
Plan is amended to add the following immediately after the last sentence of
such Section:  

Effective
as of January 1, 2008, Statutory Compensation shall be determined in
accordance with Section 1.415(c)-2 of the Regulations.  Statutory Compensation shall include amounts
that are paid by the later of 2  months after an  Employee s severance from employment with the
Employer or an Affiliate or the end of the Plan Year that includes the date of
the Employee s severance from employment and that are required to be recognized
under Section 1.415(c)-2(e) of the Regulations and, to the extent
applicable, Sections 1.415(c)-2(g)(4),(5),(6),(7) and (8) of the
Regulations, and amounts that are permitted to be recognized under the
provisions of Section 1.415(c)-2(e)(2),(3) and (4) of the
Regulations.   

3.                 Section 4.10(c) shall
be designated as 4.10(c)(i) and a new Sec. 4.10(c)(ii) shall be added
to provide the following:  

(ii)    Effective as of January 1, 2008, the
term  remuneration  for purposes of this Section 4.10 shall mean Statutory
Compensation.   

4.                 Section  4.10(f) shall
be amended in its entirety to read as follows:  

(f)              Effective January 1,
2008, the limitations imposed by Section 415 of the Code shall be applied
to the annual additions in accordance with the provisions of the final
regulations promulgated on April 5, 2007, as Treasury Decision 9319 (26
C.F.R. Parts 1 and 11), which regulations are hereby incorporated by reference
in accordance with Section 1.415(a)-1(d)(3).  The dollar limitation on annual additions
shall be adjusted in accordance with Section 415(d) of the Code and Section 1.415(d)-1
of the Regulations, which is hereby incorporated by reference, pursuant to Section 1.415(a)-1(d)(3)(v).  If the annual addition to a Participant s
Account exceeds the limitation imposed in accordance with this Section, the
provisions of subsection (d) shall apply.   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 5
 a2195966zex-10_3.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.3

EXHIBIT 10.3   

Note   :  This exhibit reflects an amendment
to the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan to revise the definition of  Committee  under
the Plan.  

Amendment No. 2   

IBM
401(k) PLUS PLAN   

   (As Amended and Restated as of January 1, 2008)   

Instrument of Amendment   

Recitals:    

International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) has established and
maintains the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan ( the Plan ), a qualified retirement
plan that meets the requirements of Section 401(a) of the Internal
Revenue Code ( the Code ) and that includes a cash or deferred arrangement
within the meaning of Section 401(k) of the Code.  

In accordance with Section 13.01 of the Plan, IBM has reserved the
right to amend the Plan at any time and from time to time.  

IBM amended and restated the Plan, effective as of January 1, 2008.  

IBM has determined to amend the Plan, as heretofore restated, in the
manner set forth in this Instrument of Amendment, to be effective as specified
herein.  

1.                  Section 1.14    is amended
effective November 16, 2009, to read as follows:  

1.14              Committee  means the
Retirement Plans Committee of IBM, which shall consist of the individuals with
the following positions (or successor positions) at IBM: Senior Vice President
and Chief Financial Officer; Senior Vice President, Human Resources; senior
Finance executive reporting to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer and responsible for funded benefit plans; and Senior Vice President  
General Counsel.    Effective beginning November 16, 2009, the Retirement Plans
Committee shall consist of the individuals with the following positions (or
successor positions) at IBM: Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer;
Senior Vice President, Human Resources; and Senior Vice President  
General Counsel.  

12.                Section 11.03    is amended,
effective August 1, 2007, to read as follows:  

11.03            Responsibilities of
Committee    

(a)              The Committee shall be
responsible for:  

(i)                the appointment, retention,
and removal of:  

(A)              the Trustee that holds the
assets of the Fund, and  

(B)               the Trustee or Investment
Managers that direct or manage the investment, acquisition, and disposition of
the assets of the Fund or of any Investment Fund;  

(ii)               the establishment and
amendment of investment policies and guidelines for the Plan, provided,
however, that the Committee, in its sole discretion, may delegate all or part
of such responsibility to the Trustee or Investment Managers, or to employees
of IBM, or to Participants;  

(iii)              the review of the
performance of the Plan Administrator, the Trustee, the Investment Managers,
and any others appointed by it at such times as the Committee determines; and  

(iv)              the establishment of such rules as
it may deem appropriate for the conduct of its business with respect to the
Plan.  

(b)               The Committee may, by duly
adopted resolution, delegate to the Plan Administrator, or any officer or
employee of IBM, the authority to carry out any decision, resolution,
directive, or delegation of the Committee. 
The Committee may, by duly adopted resolution, delegate to the IBM senior
Finance executive reporting to the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer and responsible for funded benefit plans, the authority granted to the
Committee under subsection (a)(i)(B) or Section 5.01(c).  

2    

</EX-10.3>

<EX-12>
 6
 a2195966zex-12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 12            

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING   OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES   (Unaudited)            

(1)    Income
from continuing operations before income taxes excludes (a) amortization of capitalized interest and (b) the company's share in the
income and losses of less-than-fifty percent owned affiliates.    

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 12   
 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES (Unaudited)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 7
 a2195966zex-13.htm
 EXHIBIT 13

Exhibit 13   

Report of Financials   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Management Discussion   

Overview  

18  

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements  

18  

Management Discussion Snapshot  

19  

Description of Business  

20  

Year in Review  

25  

Prior Year in Review  

40  

Discontinued Operations  

47  

Other Information  

47  

Looking Forward  

47  

Liquidity and Capital
  Resources  

49  

Critical Accounting
  Estimates  

52  

Currency Rate
  Fluctuations  

54  

Market Risk  

55  

Financing Risks  

56  

Employees and Related
  Workforce  

56  

Global Financing  

57  

REPORT OF MANAGEMENT   

62  

REPORT
  OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED        PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

63  

Consolidated Financial Statements   

Earnings  

64  

Financial Position  

65  

Cash Flows  

66  

Changes in Equity  

67  

Notes to Consolidated Financial
  Statements   

A    

Significant Accounting Policies  

70  

B    

Accounting Changes  

79  

C    

Acquisitions/Divestitures  

82  

D    

Fair Value  

86  

E    

Financial Instruments (Excluding Derivatives)  

87  

F    

Inventories  

88  

G    

Financing Receivables  

88  

H    

Plant, Rental Machines and Other Property  

89  

I    

Investments and Sundry Assets  

89  

J    

Intangible Assets Including Goodwill  

89  

K    

Borrowings  

90  

L    

Derivatives and Hedging Transactions  

92  

M    

Other Liabilities  

97  

N    

Equity Activity  

98  

O    

Contingencies and Commitments  

99  

P    

Taxes  

101  

Q    

Research, Development and Engineering  

103  

R    

Earnings Per Share of Common Stock  

104  

S    

Rental Expense and Lease Commitments  

104  

T    

Stock-Based Compensation  

105  

U    

Retirement-Related Benefits  

109  

V    

Segment Information  

122  

W    

Subsequent Events  

126  

FIVE-YEAR COMPARISON OF SELECTED
  FINANCIAL DATA   

127  

SELECTED QUARTERLY DATA   

128  

PERFORMANCE GRAPHS   

129  

BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR
  LEADERSHIP   

131  

STOCKHOLDER INFORMATION   

132  

17    

Management Discussion   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Overview   

The
financial section of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or
the company) 2009 Annual Report includes the Management Discussion, the Consolidated
Financial Statements and the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. This
Overview is designed to provide the reader with some perspective regarding the
information contained in the financial section.  

Organization of Information   

The Management Discussion is designed to provide
readers with an overview of the business and a narrative on the company s
financial results and certain factors that may affect its future prospects from
the perspective of the company s management. The  Management Discussion Snapshot 
on pages 19 and 20 presents an overview of the key performance drivers in
2009.  

                         Beginning with the  Year in Review  on page 25, the
Management Discussion contains the results of operations for each reportable
segment of the business and a discussion of the company s financial position
and cash flows. Other key sections within the Management Discussion include:  Looking
Forward  on pages 47 to 49 and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  on pages 49
to 52. It is useful to read the Management Discussion in conjunction with note
V,  Segment Information,  on pages 122 to 126.  

                         Global Financing is a reportable segment that is
measured as if it were a standalone entity. A separate  Global Financing 
section is included beginning on page 57. The information presented in
this section is consistent with this separate company view.  

                         The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented on
pages 64 through 69. These statements provide an overview of the company s
income and cash flow performance and its financial position.  

                         The notes follow the Consolidated Financial statements.
Among other items, the notes contain the company s accounting policies (pages 70
to 79), acquisitions and divestitures (pages 82 to 86), detailed
information on specific items within the financial statements, certain
contingencies and commitments (pages 99 to 101), and retirement-related
benefits information (pages 109 through 121).  

                         The references to  adjusted for currency  or  at
constant currency  in the Management Discussion are made so that certain
financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign
currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of
business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by
translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable
prior year period s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for all countries
where the functional currency is the local country currency. See  Currency Rate
Fluctuations  on page 54 for additional information.  

                         Within the financial tables in this Annual Report, certain
columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure
purposes. Percentages reported are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar
numbers.  

Discontinued Operations    

On
December 31, 2002, the company sold its hard disk drive (HDD) business to Hitachi,
Ltd. (Hitachi). The HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued operation
under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (GAAP) and
therefore, the HDD results of operations and cash flows have been removed from
the company s results of continuing operations and cash flows for the year 2007.
There was no activity in 2008 or 2009. See page 47 for additional
information.  

Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements   

Certain
statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act
of 1995. These Statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other
factors that could cause actual results to be materially different, as
discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company s
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the
company s 2009 Form 10-K filed on February 23, 2010.  

18    

Management
Discussion Snapshot   

($
and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*                     (5.3) percent adjusted for currency.  

**              At December 31.  

+                   Reflects the adoption of the Financial Accounting Standards
Board (FASB) guidance in determining whether instruments granted in share-based
payment transactions are participating securities. See note B,  Accounting Changes, 
on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

++              Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

In
2009, in a difficult global economic environment, the company continued to
deliver value to its clients and strong financial results to its investors-with
profit growth driven by continued margin expansion, expense productivity, market
share gains in software and systems and a continuing strong cash position. The
company again achieved record levels of pre-tax profit, earnings per share and
cash flow from operations-despite a decline in revenue. The financial
performance reflected the strength of the company s global model and the
results of the strategic transformation of the business.   

The company s transformation, which
started at the beginning of the decade, is driven by a combination of shifting
the business mix, improving operating leverage through productivity and
investing to capture growth opportunities.   

The company has exited
commoditizing businesses and remixed its portfolio to higher value areas
through organic investments and acquisitions. This shift to higher value areas
drives a more profitable mix and enables the company to better meet clients  needs.
In addition, the focus on global integration has improved productivity and
efficiency. The company s ongoing initiatives have reduced the fixed cost base
and improved the operational balance point-generating more profit for each
dollar of revenue. The strong profit and cash base has enabled the company to
make significant investments for growth and return capital to shareholders. Key
areas of investment include smarter planet solutions, business analytics, growth
market opportunities and new computing models such as cloud computing. The
strategic transformation of the company has enabled the company to deliver
strong financial performance since the last recession in 2002, including the
difficult environment in 2008 and 2009, and has positioned the business for the
future.  

For the year, the company
delivered $10.01 in diluted earnings per share, an increase of 12.6 percent
year to year. This was the seventh consecutive year of double-digit earnings
per share growth. In 2007, the company developed a road map for growth with an
earnings per share objective for 2010 of $10 to $11 per share. With its
performance in 2009, the company achieved this objective one year early.   

Total revenue decreased 7.6
percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to 2008. Revenue from the
growth markets declined 3.5 percent, but increased 1 percent at constant
currency. Performance was led by the BRIC countries of Brazil, Russia, India
and China which increased 4 percent, adjusted for currency. Segment performance
was driven by Software which decreased 3.1 percent year to year (1 percent
adjusted for currency) and Global Technology Services which declined 4.9
percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). Within Software performance was led
by key branded middleware which increased revenue 1.1 percent (3 percent
adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.  

Gross profit margins improved
reflecting the shift to higher value businesses and the continued focus on
productivity and cost management. The consolidated gross profit margin
increased 1.7 points versus 2008 to 45.7 percent. This was the sixth
consecutive year of improvement in the gross profit margin. Gross profit margin
performance by segment and the impact to the consolidated gross margin was as
follows:  

Total
expense and other income decreased 11.4 percent in 2009 versus 2008. The
year-to-year drivers were approximately:  

Operational expense, (9) points  

                         Currency, (4) points  

                         Acquisitions, 1 point  

19    

Pre-tax
income grew 8.5 percent and the pre-tax margin was 18.9 percent, the highest
level in more than a decade. Net income increased 8.8 percent reflecting a
slight improvement in the tax rate. The effective tax rate for 2009 was 26.0
percent, compared with 26.2 percent in 2008.   

Diluted earnings per share
improved 12.6 percent reflecting the strong growth in net income and the benefits
of the common stock repurchase program. In 2009, the company repurchased
approximately 69 million shares of its common stock. Diluted earnings per share
of $10.01 increased $1.12 from the prior year driven by the following factors:  

At
December 31, 2009, the Company s balance sheet and liquidity positions remained
strong. Cash on hand was $12,183 million. Total debt decreased $7,826 million
year to year, and the company generated $20,773 million in operating cash flow
in 2009. The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations
and also continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through
the capital markets and its global credit facility.  

Key drivers in the company s
balance sheet and total cash flows are highlighted below.   

Total assets decreased $502
million (decreased $3,885 million adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2008,
driven by:  

Decreases in cash and cash equivalents ($558 million) and
total receivables ($1,301 million); and  

                         Lower deferred taxes ($2,888 million) and intangible
assets ($365 million), partially offset by;  

                         Increased goodwill ($1,964 million) and prepaid pension
assets ($1,401 million); and  

                         Higher level of marketable securities ($1,625 million).  

The
company had $13,973 million in cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2009.

Total liabilities decreased
$9,672 million (decreased $11,213 million adjusted for currency) from December 31,
2008 driven by:  

Lower total debt ($7,826 million);  

                         Decrease in retirement-related benefit obligations ($3,500
million), partially offset by;  

                         Higher tax liabilities ($1,083 million); and  

                         Increased deferred income ($997 million).  

Total
equity of $22,755 million increased $9,170 million from the prior year-end
balance as a result of:  

Higher retained earnings ($10,546 million);  

                         Increase in foreign currency translation adjustments ($1,732
million);  

                         Increase in retirement-related items ($1,727 million) and
common stock ($2,682 million), partially offset by;  

                         Increased treasury stock ($7,072 million); and  

                         Increased net unrealized losses on cash flow
derivatives ($556 million).  

The
company generated $20,773 million in cash flow provided by operating activities,
an increase of $1,961 million, compared to 2008, primarily driven by a decrease
in receivables ($1,857 million). Net cash used in investing activities of
$6,729 million was $2,556 million lower than 2008, primarily due to the prior
year Cognos acquisition and the core logistics operations divestiture in 2009, partially
offset by the year-to-year impacts related to marketable securities and other
investments.   

Net cash used in financing
activities of $14,700 million was $2,866 million higher, primarily due to debt
repayments ($5,019 million), partially offset by lower common stock repurchases
($3,150 million) in 2009 versus 2008.   

Total Global Services signings
were $57,094 million, flat (up 2 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2008. The
estimated Global Services backlog was $137 billion at December 31, 2009, up $7
billion ($1 billion adjusted for currency) versus the prior year-end balance.  

In January 2010, the
company disclosed that it is expecting earnings of at least $11.00 per diluted
share for the full year 2010.   

For additional information and
details, see the  Year in Review  section on pages 25 through 39.  

Description of Business   

Please refer to IBM s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC
on February 23, 2010 for a more detailed version of this Description of
Business, especially Item 1A. entitled  Risk Factors.     

The company creates business
value for clients and solves business problems through integrated solutions
that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of business processes. IBM
solutions typically create value by reducing a client s operational costs or by
enabling new capabilities that generate revenue. These solutions draw from an
industry leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and implementation services,
enterprise software, systems and financing.  

Strategy    

Despite
the volatility of the information technology (IT) industry over the past decade,
IBM has consistently delivered superior performance, with a steady track record
of sustained earnings per share growth. The company has shifted its business
mix, exiting commoditized segments while increasing its presence in higher-value
areas such as services, software and integrated solutions. As part of this
shift, the company has acquired over 100 companies this past decade, complementing
and scaling its portfolio of products and offerings.  

20    

IBM s clear strategy has
enabled steady results in core business areas, while expanding its offerings
and addressable markets. The key tenets of this strategy are:  

Deliver value to enterprise clients through integrated
business and IT innovation  

                         Build/expand strong positions in growth initiatives  

                         Shift the business mix to higher-value software and
services  

                         Become the premier globally integrated enterprise  

These
priorities reflect a broad shift in client spending away from  point products 
and toward integrated solutions, as companies seek higher levels of business
value from their IT investments. IBM has been able to deliver this enhanced
client value thanks to its industry expertise, understanding of clients 
businesses and the breadth and depth of the company s capabilities.  

IBM s growth initiatives, like
its strengthened capabilities, align with these client priorities. These
initiatives include Smarter Planet and Industry Frameworks, Growth Markets, Business
Analytics and Cloud Computing. Each initiative represents a significant growth
opportunity with attractive profit margins for IBM.  

Smarter Planet and Industry Frameworks    

Smarter
Planet is an overarching strategy that highlights IBM s differentiated
capabilities and generates broad-based demand for the company s products and
services. Smarter Planet encapsulates IBM s view of enterprise IT s next major
revolution: the instrumentation and integration of the world s processes and
infrastructures-from energy grids and pipelines to supply chains and traffic
systems. The massive amount of data these systems are generating can now be
captured and analyzed. This infusion of intelligence enables more efficiency, productivity
and responsiveness.   

Clients seeking these  smart 
solutions value IBM s deep industry and process expertise, powerful back-end
systems and data analytics, complex systems integration capability and unique
research capacity.  

IBM s Industry Frameworks
create a flexible software foundation for developing, acquiring and deploying
smart industry solutions. Each framework supports multiple solutions, enabling
fast, efficient and tailored capabilities in support of clients  business needs.
These frameworks represent a proven technique for the company to engage with
its clients, driving sustained growth and high business value. They cover a
wide variety of industries and domains, most of which are directly tied to Smarter
Planet.  

Growth Markets    

The
company has benefited from its investments over the past several years in
growth markets. The focus now is on geographic expansion of IBM s presence; on
specific industry verticals of the highest impact and opportunity; on countries 
build-out of infrastructure aligned with their national agendas; and on
creating markets and new business models to serve the different requirements
that exist in these emerging countries.  

In order to support this growth,
IBM is continuing to invest significantly in these markets to expand capacity
and develop talent. At the same time, IBM is expanding and benefiting from
large teams of talent with global missions of delivery. The company continues
to deepen its research and development (R D) teams to design for the unique
challenges and rapid growth facing these markets.  

Business Analytics and Optimization   

Business
optimization through the application of advanced analytics is emerging as
another major category of business value. It succeeds earlier generations of
back-office automation, basic enterprise resource planning and traditional
business intelligence. Advanced analytics allow clients to see patterns in data
they could not see before, understand their exposure to risk and predict the
outcomes of business decisions with greater certainty.   

IBM s approach is end-to-end, providing
cross-enterprise as well as industry-based analytics solutions. IBM has
established the Business Analytics and Optimization practice, leveraging IBM
consulting capabilities and software products, along with systems and research
assets. IBM s breadth of expertise uniquely positions the company for revenue
and profit growth.  

Cloud Computing   

Cloud 
is an emerging consumption and delivery model for many IT-related services. Clients
are attracted to its improved economics, flexibility and user experience. Traditional
enterprise IT will increasingly integrate with these new cloud deployments, delivered
as services via the Internet (also known as public clouds) or behind a firewall
(private clouds). In discussions with enterprise clients, most are initially
focused on private cloud implementations, the middle ground between the
traditional enterprise IT and public clouds.  

IBM is helping clients
determine how to leverage cloud computing to achieve business advantage. The
company provides a full set of capabilities, from support in designing and
implementing cloud solutions, to services for running and managing them if
desired. IBM is applying its deep experience in critical areas such as security,
reliability and innovation to deliver differentiated value. The company is also
investing in new cloud initiatives tailored to particular industries, in
conjunction with its partners and clients, to deliver cloud business services
directly to the market. By providing deployment choice, optimizing solutions
based on workload characteristics and delivering complete service management
capabilities, IBM is positioned as the leading cloud service and infrastructure
provider for enterprises.  

21    

Business Model    

The
company s business model is built to support two principal goals: helping
clients succeed in delivering business value by becoming more innovative,
efficient and competitive through the use of business insight and IT solutions;
and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been
developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and
technologies that have the best long-term growth and profitability prospects
based on the value they deliver to clients.   

The company s global
capabilities include services, software, systems, fundamental research and
related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to
provide business insight and solutions for the company s clients.   

The business model is flexible,
adapting to the continuously changing market and economic environment. the
company continues to divest commoditizing businesses and strengthen its
position through strategic investments and acquisitions in higher value
segments like business analytics, smarter planet and cloud computing. In
addition, the company has transformed itself into a globally integrated enterprise
which has improved overall productivity and is driving investment and
participation in the world s fastest growing markets. As a result, the company
is a higher performing enterprise today than it was several years ago.   

The business model, supported
by the company s long-term financial model, has enabled the company to deliver
consistently strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders in
changing economic environments.  

Business Segments and Capabilities    

The
company s major operations comprise: a Global Technology Services segment; a
Global Business Services segment; a Software segment; a Systems and Technology
segment; and a Global Financing segment.  

Global Services   
is a critical component of the company s strategy of providing IT infrastructure
and business insight and solutions to clients. While solutions often include
industry-leading IBM software and systems, other suppliers  products are also
used if a client solution requires it. approximately 60 percent of external
Global Services segment revenue is annuity-based, coming primarily from
outsourcing, maintenance and custom application management services
arrangements. The Global Services backlog provides a solid revenue base
entering each year. Within Global Services, there are two reportable segments:
Global Technology Services and Global Business Services.  

Global Technology Services (GTS)    primarily provides IT infrastructure services and
business process services, delivering business value through the company s
global scale, standardization and automation.  

GTS CAPABILITIES   

Strategic Outsourcing Services   .
Comprehensive IT outsourcing services dedicated to transforming clients 
existing infrastructures to ensure better quality, cost control, adaptability,
security and compliance. IBM integrates long-standing experience in service
management, technology and industry applications with new technologies, such as
cloud computing and virtualization, to enable new capabilities for clients.  

Business Transformation Outsourcing.   
A range of offerings from standardized processing platforms and Business Process
Outsourcing through transformational offerings that deliver improved business
results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the
client s business processes, applications and infrastructure.  

Integrated Technology Services.   
Project-based portfolio of services that enable clients to optimize their IT
environments by driving efficiency, flexibility and productivity, while
reducing costs. The standardized portfolio is built around key assets and
patented software, and incorporates best practices and proven methodologies
that ensure predictive quality of delivery, security and compliance.  

Maintenance.    A
complete line of support services from product maintenance through solution
support to maintain and improve the availability of clients  IT infrastructure.  

The
GTS outsourcing businesses are supported by integrated worldwide delivery
organizations:  

Integrated Technology Delivery (ITD)   
is responsible for worldwide service delivery supporting the Strategic Outsourcing
business. It manages the world s largest privately-owned IT infrastructure with
employees in over 40 countries, supporting over 450 data centers. I td  operates a globally integrated
delivery model which supports regional client-facing teams by utilizing a
global network of competencies and centers.  e ach
competency provides industry-leading, standardized, integrated tools and
processes. By leveraging IBM s global scale, skills and technology which is
combined with the innovation from IBM research, clients gain access to leading
edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility and cost.  

Business Process Delivery (BPD)   
provides highly efficient, world-class delivery capabilities in IBM s business
process delivery operations, which include Business  t ransformation Outsourcing, Business  p rocess Outsourcing and Business  p rocess  s ervices.
 Bpd  has employees and delivery
centers in over 40 countries worldwide.  

Global Business Services (GBS)    primarily provides professional services and
application outsourcing services, delivering business value and innovation to
clients through solutions which leverage industry- and business-process
expertise.  

22    

GBS CAPABILITIES   

Consulting and Systems Integration   .
Delivery of value to clients through consulting services for
client-relationship management, financial management, human-capital management,
business strategy and change, and supply-chain management. In 2009, the company
announced the creation of a new consulting service line dedicated to the market
for advanced business analytics and business optimization.  

Application Management Services.   
Application development, management, maintenance and support services for
packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is
delivered through the company s global resource capabilities, industry
knowledge and the standardization and automation of application development.  

Software   
consists primarily of middleware and operating systems software. Middleware
software enables clients to integrate systems, processes and applications
across a standard software platform. IBM middleware is designed on open
standards, making it easier to integrate disparate business applications,
developed by different methods and implemented at different times.  o perating  s ystems are the software engines that run computers.
Approximately two-thirds of external software segment revenue is annuity-based,
coming from recurring license charges and ongoing subscription and support from
one-time charge (OTC) arrangements. The remaining one-third relates to OTC
arrangements in which clients pay one, up-front payment for a perpetual
license. Typically, arrangements for the sale of OTC software include one year
of subscription and support.  c lients
can also purchase ongoing subscription and support after the first year, which
includes product upgrades and technical support.  

SOFTWARE CAPABILITIES   

WebSphere Software   .
 d elivers capabilities that enable
clients to integrate and manage business processes across their organizations
with the flexibility and agility they need to respond to changing conditions
quickly. With a services-oriented architecture (SOA), businesses can more
easily link together their fragmented data and business processes to extract
value from their existing technology.  

Information Management Software.   
 e nables clients to integrate,
manage and use their information to gain business value and improve their
outcomes. Solutions include advanced database management, enterprise content
management, information integration, data warehousing, business analytics and
intelligence, performance management and predictive analytics.  

Tivoli Software.   
Helps clients manage their technology and business assets by providing
visibility, control and automation across their organizations. With solutions
for identity management, data security, storage management and the ability to
provide automation and provisioning of the datacenter, Tivoli helps build the
infrastructure needed to make the world s systems from transportation to water,
energy and telecommunications run smarter.  

Lotus Software   .
Enables businesses to connect people and processes for more effective
communication and increased productivity through collaboration, messaging and
social networking software. By remaining at the forefront of collaboration
tools, Lotus helps organizations reap the benefits of social networking and
other Web 2.0 modalities.  

Rational Software   .
 s upports software development for
both I t  and embedded system
solutions with a suite of  a pplication
 l ifecycle Management products.
Jazz, Rational s technology platform, transforms the way people work together
to build software, making software delivery more collaborative, productive and
transparent.  

Operating Systems.   
 s oftware that manages the
fundamental processes that make computers run.  

Systems and Technology   
provides clients with business solutions requiring advanced computing power and
storage capabilities.  a pproximately
55 percent of  s ystems and
Technology s server and storage sales transactions are through the company s
business partners; approximately 45 percent are direct to end-user clients. In
addition,  s ystems and  t echnology provides leading
semiconductor technology, products and packaging solutions to clients and for
IBM s own advanced technology needs.  

SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY CAPABILITIES   

Systems.    A
range of general purpose and integrated systems designed and optimized for
specific business, public and scientific computing needs. These systems  s ystem z, converged  s ystem p and  s ystem x are typically the core technology in data centers
that provide required infrastructure for business and institutions.  a lso, these systems form the foundation
for IBM s integrated offerings, such as IBM Smart Business Storage Cloud, IBM Smart
Analytics Cloud, IBM Smart Analytics System and IBM CloudBurst. IBM servers use
both IBM and non-IBM microprocessor technology and operating systems. All IBM
servers run Linux, a key open-source operating system.  

Storage   . IBM
provides data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and
manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information. These solutions
address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving,
data deduplication, availability and virtualization, and security and
compliance. The portfolio consists of a broad range of disk and tape storage
systems and software, including the next-generation, ultra-scalable disk
storage system XIV.  

Retail Store Solutions.   
 p oint-of-sale retail systems
(network connected cash registers) as well as solutions which connect them to
other store systems.  

23    

Microelectronics.   
Semiconductor design and manufacturing primarily for use in IBM systems and
storage products and for sale to external clients.  

Global Financing   
facilitates clients  acquisition of IBM systems, software and services. Global
Financing invests in financing assets, leverages with debt and manages the
associated risks with the objective of generating consistently strong returns
on equity. The primary focus on the company s offerings and clients mitigates
many of the risks normally associated with a financing company. Global
Financing has the benefit of both a deep knowledge of its client base and a
clear insight into the products and services that are being financed. This
combination allows Global Financing to effectively manage two of the major
risks (credit and residual value) that are normally associated with financing.  

GLOBAL FINANCING CAPABILITIES   

Client Financing.   
Lease and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms generally
between two and seven years. Internal financing is predominantly in support of
Global Services  long-term client service contracts. Global Financing also
factors a selected portion of the company s accounts receivable, primarily for
cash management purposes. All internal financing arrangements are at
arm s-length rates and are based upon market conditions.  

Commercial Financing   .
Short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to dealers and
remarketers of IT products.  

Remarketing.    The
sale and lease of used equipment to new or existing clients both externally and
internally.  t his equipment is primarily
sourced from the conclusion of lease transactions. Externally remarketed
equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers.
Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment
that is sold or leased internally to the  s ystems
and Technology and Global  s ervices
segments.  t he  s ystems and  t echnology segment may also sell the equipment that it
purchases from Global Financing to external clients.  

IBM Worldwide Organizations    

The
following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM s delivery of value to
its clients:  

Sales and Distribution  

                         Research, Development and Intellectual Property  

                         Integrated Supply Chain  

Sales and Distribution   

IBM
has a significant global presence, operating in more than 170 countries, with
an increasingly broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company s  s ales and  d istribution organization manages a strong global footprint,
with dedicated country-based operating units focused on delivering client
value. Within these units, client relationship professionals work with
integrated teams of consultants, product specialists and delivery fulfillment
teams to improve clients  business performance. These teams deliver value by
understanding the clients  businesses and needs, and then bring together
capabilities from across IBM and an extensive network of Business  p artners to develop and implement
solutions.  

By combining global expertise
with local experience, IBM s geographic structure enables dedicated management
focus for local clients, speed in addressing new market opportunities and
timely investments in emerging opportunities. The geographic units align
industry-skilled resources to serve clients  agendas. IBM extends capabilities
to mid-market client segments by leveraging industry skills with marketing, ibm.com
and local Business  p artner
resources.  

In 2008, the company
implemented a new growth markets organization to increase its focus on the
emerging markets around the world that have market growth rates greater than
the global average countries within Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East
and Latin America. The company s major markets include the United States
(U.S.), Canada, the United Kingdom ( u .K.),
France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Switzerland, Austria, Belgium,
Finland, Greece, Ireland, the Netherlands, Portugal, Cyprus, Norway, Israel,
Spain, the Bahamas and the Caribbean region.   

The majority of IBM s revenue,
excluding the company s original equipment manufacturer (OEM) technology
business, occurs in industries that are broadly grouped into six sectors:   

Financial Services: Banking, Financial Markets,
Insurance   

                         Public: Education, Government, Healthcare, Life  s ciences  

                         Industrial:  a erospace
and  d efense,  a utomotive,  c hemical and  p etroleum,
 e lectronics  

                         Distribution:  c onsumer
 p roducts,  r etail,  t ravel
and  t ransportation  

                         Communications:  t elecommunications,
Media and  e ntertainment,  e nergy and  u tilities  

                         General Business: Mainly companies with fewer than
1,000 employees  

Research, Development and Intellectual Property   

IBM s
R D operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually
invests approximately $6 billion for R D, focusing on high-growth, high-value
opportunities. As a result of innovations in these and other areas, IBM was
once again awarded more U.S. patents in 2009 than any other company, the 17th
consecutive year IBM has been the patent leader. IBM s 4,914 patents in 2009
were the most  u.s . patents ever
awarded to one company in a single year. Consistent with the shift in the
company s business mix, approximately 70 percent of these patents were software
and services.  t he company will
continue to actively seek intellectual property protection for its innovations,
while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its
intellectual property leadership and promote innovation.  

24    

In addition to producing
world-class systems, software and technology products, IBM innovations are also
a major differentiator in providing solutions for the company s clients through
its services businesses. The company s investments in R D also result in
intellectual property (IP) income of approximately $1 billion annually.  s ome of IBM s technological
breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed
and may be used in either/both IBM products and/or the products of the
licensee. While the company s various proprietary intellectual property rights
are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not
materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular
group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of
patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products. Licenses under
patents owned by IBM have been and are being granted to others under reasonable
terms and conditions.  

Integrated Supply Chain    

Consistent
with the company s work with clients to transform their supply chains for
greater efficiency and responsiveness to global market conditions, the company
continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply
chain, thereby providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value
for clients. IBM leverages its supply-chain expertise for clients through its
supply-chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help
operate clients  end-to-end supply-chain processes, from procurement to
logistics.  

IBM spends approximately $35
billion annually through its supply chain, procuring materials and services
globally. The supply, manufacturing and logistics and customer fulfillment
operations are integrated in one operating unit that has optimized inventories
over time, improved response to marketplace opportunities and external risks
and converted fixed costs to variable costs. Simplifying and streamlining
internal processes has improved operations, sales force productivity and
processes.  

Year in Review   

Segment Details   

The
following is an analysis of the 2009 versus 2008 reportable segment results.
The analysis of 2008 versus 2007 reportable segment results is on pages 40
to 45.   

The
following table presents each reportable segment s external revenue and gross
margin results.  

($
in millions)  

25    

t  he
following table presents each reportable segment s external revenue as a
percentage of total segment external revenue and each reportable segment s
pre-tax income as a percentage of total segment pre-tax income.  

*                Segment
pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to
reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated
corporate items; see note V,   s egment
Information  for additional information.  

In
2009, Global Services and Software increased as a percentage of total segment
revenue and total segment pre-tax income, with Global  s ervices and  s oftware
each contributing 42 percent of segment pre-tax income.  t hese changes reflect the company s continuing transformation
and the remix of its business   both aimed at market segments that present the
best long-term opportunities.  

g    lobal  s ervices    

The
Global  s ervices segments,  Gts  and  GBs,  had combined revenue of $55,000 million, a decrease of
6.6 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 when compared to 2008.  s ervices revenue performance was
supported by its annuity revenue base, but also reflected the challenges in the
more economically sensitive consulting business.    

t  otal Global Services signings of $57,094 million
decreased 0.2 percent (increased 2 percent adjusted for currency).  o utsourcing signings of $33,014 million
increased 8.8 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency).  o utsourcing signings growth was broad based
across all the major geographies and in each business area:  s trategic  o utsourcing, Business  t ransformation
 o utsourcing and  a pplication  o utsourcing.  c onsulting
and  s ystems Integration and
Integrated  t echnology  s ervices signings were $24,081 million,
a decrease of 10.2 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency).  t he estimated Global Services backlog
at actual currency rates was $137 billion at  d ecember
31, 2009, an increase of $7 billion ($1 billion adjusted for currency) from  d ecember 31, 2008 and an increase of $2
billion ($3 billion adjusted for currency) from  s eptember 30, 2009.      

t  he Global Services segments delivered a combined
pre-tax profit of $8,092 million in 2009, a growth of 11.0 percent versus 2008,
and expanded pre-tax margin 2.3 points to 14.1 percent.  t he improved margin was a result of the structural changes
made to services delivery over the past several years.  t he services global delivery capabilities have proven to be
dynamic and flexible enough to deal with very tough market conditions.  o verall, the Global Services business
delivered strong margin and signings performance in a difficult economic
climate.  

($ in millions)  

26    

Global  t echnology  s ervices
revenue of $37,347 million decreased 4.9 percent (2 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2009 versus 2008.  t otal
 Gts  signings of $34,703 million
in 2009 were flat (increased 3 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2008.  o utsourcing signings of $25,507 million
increased 4.3 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) with growth of 7
percent in the major markets and 14 percent in the growth markets, adjusted for
currency. Integrated  t echnology  s ervices signings of $9,196 million
decreased 10.3 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency).    

s  trategic  o utsourcing
(SO) revenue decreased 4.2 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency).  s O revenue performance, adjusted for
currency, was consistent throughout the year, although impacted by reduced
volumes in the existing client base.  s O
signings increased 1.8 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) when compared
to 2008.  r evenue trends in
outsourcing should improve in 2010 as a result of the 2009 signings
performance.  

Integrated Technology Services
(ITS) revenue decreased 5.5 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009
versus 2008.  r evenue performance
largely      reflects recent signings performance which continued to
be impacted by declines in  oeM 
offerings, as the ITS portfolio shifts to higher value, higher margin
offerings.  

Business Transformation Outsourcing
( Bto ) revenue decreased 10.6
percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) year to year and reflects declines in
client business volumes in a slower economic environment and an increased focus
on deal selectivity.  Bto  signings
increased 21.9 percent (26 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 compared to
2008.  

Global Business Services
revenue decreased 10.1 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 driven
primarily by a double-digit decline in Consulting and Systems Integration
revenue.  t otal signings in  GBs  decreased 0.4 percent (increased 1
percent adjusted for currency).  a pplication
Outsourcing signings increased 27.1 percent (25 percent adjusted for currency),
illustrating the strong value proposition Application Outsourcing can provide
to clients with compelling cost savings.  c onsulting
and Systems Integration signings decreased 10.2 percent (8 percent adjusted for
currency).  

($
in millions)  

Gts  
gross profit margin improved 2.4 points to 35.0 percent in 2009 and expanded in
all lines of business when compared to 2008.  s trategic
Outsourcing gross margin improved for the fifth consecutive year, while also
improving overall service delivery quality.  t his
has been accomplished through a disciplined and innovative approach to delivery
focused on both labor and non-labor productivity actions.  Gts  has been executing a strategy to
deliver services out of key global delivery centers using consistent global
delivery methods and processes.  t he
delivery centers are also improving labor utilization with analytics and by
applying supply chain tools and techniques to the labor base. Integrated Technology
Services gross margin improved as the result of mixing the portfolio of
offerings to more profitable labor-based services. Business Transformation Outsourcing
gross margin expanded as a result of improved deal selectivity and delivery
performance.  s egment pre-tax
profit increased 20.2 percent to $5,537 million with a pre-tax margin of 14.3
percent, an increase of 3.0 points versus 2008.  

GBs   gross profit margin improved 1.5 points to 28.2
percent in 2009 with an improving margin trend throughout the year.  s egment pre-tax profit was down 4.7
percent to $2,555 million, however, margin improved 0.8 points year over year.  t hroughout the year, the dynamic GBS
delivery model enabled solid profit performance in a tough economic climate.  t he pre-tax margin expansion also
included improving trends throughout the year and was driven primarily by
improved delivery center utilization, reduced subcontractor spending and
improved cost and expense management.  

globAl seRVIces sIgnIngs    

t  he
table on page 28 presents Global Services signings as reported.  s ignings at actual currency rates
provide investors with a better view of how these signings will convert to
services revenue and also provides better comparability to other companies in
the industry who report signings using actual rates.  

27    

($
in millions)  

Global
 s ervices signings are management s
initial estimate of the revenue value of a client s commitment under a Global Services
contract.  s ignings are used by
management to assess period performance of Global Services management.  t here are no third-party standards or
requirements governing the calculation of signings.  t he calculation used by management involves estimates and
judgments to gauge the extent of a client s commitment, including the type and
duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down
costs.    

s  ignings include SO, BTO, ITS and GBS contracts.  c ontract extensions and increases in
scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new revenue
value. Maintenance is not included in signings as maintenance contracts tend to
be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals.  

Backlog includes SO, BTO, ITS, GBS
and Maintenance. Backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under
contract and therefore does include Maintenance. Backlog estimates are subject
to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes
in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations and adjustments for revenue
not materialized.  

c  ontract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are
treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the
company s requirements for initial signings.  a 
new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental
or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture.  

Software   

($ in millions)  

*   r eclassified
to conform with 2009 presentation.  

28    

s  oftware
revenue of $21,396 million decreased 3.1 percent (1 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2009 compared to 2008.  a djusted
for currency, growth in the Key Branded Middleware products was offset by decreased
revenue in other components of the software portfolio.  o verall, the software business has continued to perform well
in an uncertain environment.  t he
company s recent acquisitions increased revenue and the company is continuing
to invest in capabilities that accelerate the development of new market
opportunities like business analytics and smarter planet.  

Key Branded Middleware revenue
increased 1.1 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) and represented 59
percent of total Software revenue, an increase of 2 points from 2008.  t he company continued to solidify its
lead in the middleware market, gaining share for nine consecutive quarters.  o rganic investments and acquisitions in
middleware capabilities continue to result in it becoming a larger portion of
the software portfolio and improving the overall software revenue growth rate.
Growth in 2009, adjusted for currency, was led by WebSphere and  t ivoli. 

WebSphere Family revenue
increased 10.5 percent (13 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 with strong
performance throughout the year.  a pplication
Servers, which provide customers with a secure and resilient infrastructure for
mission-critical business applications, grew 5 percent adjusted for currency.
Business Integration software had double-digit revenue growth in 2009,
including strong contribution from  IloG ,
a company acquired in the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Information Management revenue
decreased 0.5 percent (increased 2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009
versus the prior year, with revenue growth, adjusted for currency, in both
Information Management solutions and infrastructure offerings.  c ognos and InfoSphere software, two key
components of the business analytics area, both had double-digit revenue growth
adjusted for currency.  t he acquisition
of  spss , which was completed in
early  o ctober, 2009, further
expands the company s business analytics capabilities.    

l  otus revenue decreased 10.0 percent (8 percent adjusted
for currency) in 2009.  d emand for
Lotus software was impacted by customer consolidations and downsizing
throughout 2009.    

t  ivoli revenue increased 2.9 percent (5 percent adjusted
for currency) in 2009 when compared to 2008, driven by growth      in
storage software.  t ivoli storage
revenue grew consistently throughout the year as customers managed their
rapidly growing storage data.  

r  ational revenue increased 0.2 percent in 2009 as
reported and increased 3 percent adjusted for currency versus 2008.  r ational s integrated software tools
improve the speed, quality and efficiency for customers with software
development projects.  t elelogic
contributed strong revenue growth in 2009 and extended the brand s reach into
the systems development market opportunity. 

r  evenue from Other middleware products decreased 6.3
percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus the prior year.  t his software product set includes more
mature products which provide a more stable flow of revenue.    

o  perating systems product revenue decreased 7.4 percent
(5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 compared to 2008, reflecting
declining sales in all system brands.    

p  roduct Lifecycle Management revenue decreased 23.0
percent (22 percent adjusted for currency).  t he
company and Dassault Systemes ( ds )
signed an agreement in  o ctober
2009 under which  ds  intends to
acquire the company s sales and client support operations encompassing  ds  s Product Lifecycle Management
software application portfolio, as well as customer contracts and related
assets.  t he company expects to
record a gain when this transaction is completed, which is anticipated in the
first quarter of 2010.  

($
in millions)  

s  oftware
gross profit of $18,405 million in 2009 decreased 2.4 percent versus 2008,
driven primarily by declining revenue. Gross profit margin expanded 0.6 points
to 86.0 percent in 2009.  t he Software
segment delivered $8,095 million of pre-tax profit in 2009, an increase of 14.4
percent versus 2008.  t he segment
pre-tax profit margin expanded 5.2 points to 33.6 percent.  t he breadth of the software portfolio,
the strong recurring revenue stream and the actions taken to improve efficiency
and productivity combined to deliver strong profit results.  

29    

s    ystems and  t echnology   

($
in millions)  

Systems
and Technology revenue decreased 16.1 percent (15 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2009 versus 2008 reflecting the challenges that
transactional-based businesses are facing in the current environment. While
revenue performance declined in 2009, the rate of decline improved sequentially
in the third and fourth quarters. The company gained share in System p, System
x, blades, and in System Storage external disk and tape storage during
2009.    

s  ystem z revenue decreased 28.7 percent (28 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus 2008.  MIps 
(millions of instructions per second) shipments decreased 13 percent in 2009
versus the prior year.  MIps 
increased 4 percent in 2009 on a two year compounded growth rate and this
performance is consistent with what the company would expect at this point in
the product cycle. In the third quarter, the company introduced System z
offerings called System z Solution Editions, which expanded the platform s
value proposition to both new and existing clients. In 2010 the company will be
releasing the next generation System z mainframe product.    

c  onverged System p revenue decreased 10.7 percent (9
percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus 2008.  l ow-end server revenue declined 43 percent, midrange server
revenue decreased 2 percent and high-end server revenue decreased 10 percent
versus 2008.  a lthough revenue
declined, the company continued to gain market share in the midrange and high
end of the product line by helping clients increase efficiency in their data
centers by leveraging consolidation and virtualization results.  t his has led to seven consecutive
quarters of share gains. In addition, in 2009, the company increased sales
generated by  unIX  competitive
displacements to over $600 million. In February 2010, the company
introduced several new models of the next generation  poWer  systems, which will deliver 2 to 3 times the
performance, within the same energy envelope.  

s  ystem x revenue decreased 4.6 percent (3 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus 2008.  r evenue
performance in the second half of the year was strong with third quarter
revenue increasing 0.6 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) and fourth
quarter revenue increasing 36.8 percent (30 percent adjusted for currency)
compared to the prior year periods.  s ystem
x server revenue declined 4 percent, primarily driven by decreased low-end
server revenue (10 percent) in 2009 versus 2008. Blades revenue increased 11
percent in 2009 versus 2008.  s ystem
x server has gained share in four consecutive quarters.  t he company s improved sales model and enhanced product offerings
were the key contributors to this performance. 

s  ystem Storage revenue decreased 12.0 percent (11
percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus 2008.  t otal disk revenue decreased 9 percent versus 2008.  t hese decreases were driven by declines
in midrange disk revenue of 18 percent and decreased Enterprise Disk revenue of
6 percent. In the fourth quarter, the company introduced the  ds 8700 product, the latest addition to
the  ds8000  line of high-end disk
systems.  t he company s storage
acquisitions, XIV and Diligent, had strong performance. XIV has added over 400
new customers since the acquisition.  t ape
revenue declined 20 percent in 2009 versus 2008.  

r  etail Stores Solutions revenue decreased 25.6 percent
(24 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus 2008, reflecting continued
weakness in the retail sector.  

Microelectronics  oeM  revenue decreased 15.1 percent (15
percent adjusted for currency), in 2009 versus 2008.  a lthough 2009 revenue declined, second half revenue improved
significantly over first half performance with performance essentially flat
compared to the prior year.  t he
company s 45 nanometer technology is in production and on track to drive the
launch of the  poWer 7 systems in
2010.  

30    

($ in millions)  

t  he
decrease in external gross profit for 2009 versus 2008 was primarily driven by
lower revenue.    

o  verall, gross margin decreased 0.2 points versus the
prior year. Margin improvements in  s ystem
x, converged System p and System z were offset by impacts due to product mix
and a margin decline in Microelectronics.  

s  ystems and Technology s pre-tax income decreased 8.5
percent in 2009 when compared to 2008 driven by lower revenue.  p re-tax margin increased 0.6 points in
2009 versus the prior year, reflecting the focus on cost and expense management
and improving productivity.  

GLOBAL FINANCING    

See
page 57 for an analysis of Global Financing s segment results.  

Geographic Revenue   

In
addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also
measures revenue performance on a geographic basis.  t he following geographic, regional and country-specific
revenue performance excludes  oeM 
revenue, which is discussed separately below.  

($
in millions)  

Geographic
revenue decreased 7.4 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) to $93,477
million in 2009 when compared to 2008, with relatively consistent performance,
adjusted for currency, across the geographies.  r evenue from the growth markets decreased 3.5 percent
(increased 1 percent adjusted for currency) and revenue from the major markets
decreased 8.2 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). While the economic
environment slowed globally in 2009, revenue growth, adjusted for currency, in
the growth markets remained approximately 8 points higher than the major
markets.  t he company has been
investing to capture the opportunity in the emerging markets as these countries
build out their public and private infrastructures.  t he growth markets contributed 19 percent of the geographic
revenue in 2009, 1 point higher versus 2008. Within the  BrIc  countries, revenue increased 0.7 percent (4 percent
adjusted for currency) led by growth in China, India and Brazil, adjusted for
currency.  

a  mericas revenue decreased 6.1 percent (5 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2009. Within the major market countries, the  u.s.  declined 6.5 percent and  c anada decreased 7.1 percent (1 percent
adjusted for currency).  r evenue
in the  l atin  a merica growth markets decreased 3.4
percent (increased 1 percent adjusted for currency) led by growth in Brazil
(increased 3 percent adjusted for currency). 

e  urope/Middle  e ast/ a frica ( eMea ) revenue decreased 12.0 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2009 when compared to 2008.  r evenue
decreased in the major market countries with year-to-year declines in the  u.K . of 13.6 percent (increased 1
percent adjusted for currency), Germany 10.3 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency), France 11.6 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency), Italy 11.3
percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) and  s pain
12.6 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency).  

31    

a  sia Pacific revenue decreased 1.9 percent (4 percent
adjusted for currency) year over year.  r evenue
in the  a sia Pacific growth
markets decreased 2.4 percent (increased 3 percent adjusted for currency), led
by growth in China and India.  c hina
revenue increased 10 percent, adjusted for currency, as the company leveraged
its broad portfolio to provide comprehensive solutions to clients. India
revenue increased 6 percent, adjusted for currency. Japan revenue decreased 1.4
percent (10 percent adjusted for currency).  

t  he company continues to see growing opportunity
globally much of which is outside the traditional IT opportunity to help its
clients drive efficiency in their physical infrastructures.    

oeM   revenue of $2,281 million in 2009 declined 15.2
percent (15 percent adjusted for currency) compared to 2008 driven by reduced
demand year over year in the technology  oeM 
business. Year-to-year revenue performance improved in this business across the
second half of 2009.  

t    otal Expense and Other Income   

($
in millions)  

t  he
key drivers year to year in total expense and other income were approximately:  

o  perational
expense, (9) points  

                         c  urrency,
(4) points  

                         a  cquisitions,
1 point  

In
2009, the company continued to execute its operational plan to increase process
efficiency and productivity; leveraging the company s scale and global
presence.  t he company s efforts
have been focused on all areas of the business from sales efficiency, supply
chain management and service delivery to the global support functions.  t he company s cost and expense base
(approximately $80 billion) provides ample opportunity for savings and the
company yielded approximately $3.7 billion in cost and expense savings in 2009.
 t he company s initiatives have
contributed to an improved operational balance point and the improvements in margins
and profit.  a s a result, the
company is able to continue to invest in capabilities that will differentiate
the company in the future and accelerate the development of new market
opportunities.  

For additional information
regarding total expense and other income, see the following analyses by
category.  

sellIng, geneRAl AnD ADMInIstRAtIVe   

($
in millions)  

*  r eclassified to conform with 2009
presentation.  

t  otal
Selling, general and administrative ( sG a )
expense decreased 10.4 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) in 2009 versus
2008.  o verall, the decrease was
driven by reductions in operational expense (down 9 points) as the company
continues to focus on disciplined expense management, while investing for
future growth.  c urrency impacts
also drove a year-to-year decline (down 3 points), partially offset by
acquisition-related spending (up 1 point). Workforce reductions expense
decreased $264 million, primarily due to actions taken in the fourth quarter of
2008, reflecting workforce actions in Japan ($120 million) and other ongoing
skills rebalancing that is a regular element of the company s business model.
Bad debt expense decreased $159 million primarily driven by reductions in
specific reserve requirements and lower accounts receivable balances in 2009
versus 2008.  t he company s
accounts receivable provision coverage is 2.0 percent, flat from a year ago.  

OTHER (INCOME) AND EXPENSE   

($
in millions)  

*
 Reclassified to conform with 2009
presentation.  

n  M Not
meaningful  

32    

Other
(income) and expense was income of $351 million in 2009, an increase in income
of $53 million year to year. The increase was driven by several key factors:
the $298 million gain, reflected in Other, from the core logistics operations
divestiture; increased foreign currency transaction gains of $329 million;
offset by less interest income of $249 million due to lower rates; less gains
from securities transactions of $162 million due to Lenovo equity sales in
2008; and a 2009 loss provision related to a joint venture investment of $119
million, also reflected in Other.  

ReseARcH, DeVelopMent AnD
engIneeRIng   

($
in millions)  

t  he
company continues to invest in research and development, focusing its
investments on high-value, high-growth opportunities.  t otal Research, development and engineering ( rd e ) expense decreased 8.2 percent
in 2009 versus 2008; adjusted for currency, expense decreased 6 percent in
2009.  t he decrease in spending,
adjusted for currency, was driven by continued process efficiencies and
reductions in discretionary spending, partially offset by the impact of
acquisitions.  rd e 
investments represented 6.1 percent of total revenue in 2009, flat compared to
2008.  

IntellectuAl pRopeRty AnD custoM
DeVelopMent IncoMe   

($
in millions)  

t  he
timing and amount of sales and other transfers of  Ip  may vary significantly from period to period depending
upon timing of divestitures, industry consolidation, economic conditions and
the timing of new patents and know-how development.  t here were no significant individual  Ip  transactions in 2009 or 2008.  

InteRest expense   

($
in millions)  

t  he
decrease in interest expense was primarily due to lower debt balances in 2009
versus 2008.  t otal debt at  d ecember 31, 2009 was $26.1 billion; a
decline of $7.8 billion of primarily non-Global Financing debt. Interest
expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings
if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external
business.  o verall interest
expense for 2009 was $1,109 million, a decrease of $353 million versus 2008.  

s    tock-Based  c ompensation

t  otal
pre-tax stock-based compensation cost of $558 million decreased $101 million
compared to 2008.  t he decrease
was principally the result of a reduction in the level of stock option grants
($159 million), offset by an increase related to restricted and
performance-based share units ($58 million).  t he
year-to-year change was reflected in the following categories: reductions in
cost ($22 million),  rd e 
expense ($12 million), and  sG a 
expense ($67 million).  

s  ee note T,  Stock-Based Compensation,  on pages 105
to 109 for additional information on stock-based incentive awards.  

Retirement-Related Benefits    

t  he
following table presents the total pre-tax cost for all retirement-related
plans.  t hese amounts are included
in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the category (e.g., cost,  sG a, rd e ) relating to the job
function of the plan participants.  

($
in millions)  

*  r eclassified to conform with 2009
presentation.  

33    

o  verall
retirement-related benefit costs decreased $24 million versus 2008.  t otal plan costs decreased $142 million
year-to-year, driven by lower defined contribution plans cost of $160 million
compared to 2008.  t his decrease
was offset by higher costs for mandatory pension insolvency insurance coverage.
 d uring the year ended  d ecember 31, 2009, the company paid
$140 million for mandatory pension insolvency insurance coverage in certain
non- u.s.  countries, an increase
year to year of $117 million driven primarily by premiums paid in Germany.
While not related to the IBM Plans, all companies with plans in Germany and
several other countries are subject to these charges.  

r  etirement-related plan costs decreased approximately
$16 million in cost, $4 million in SG A expense and $3 million in  rd e  expense.  

s  ee note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on
pages 109 through 121 for additional information on these plans and the
factors driving the year-to-year change in total cost.  

Acquired Intangible Asset Amortization    

t  he
company has been investing in targeted acquisitions to increase its
capabilities in higher value businesses.  t he
following table presents the total acquired intangible asset amortization
included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  s ee note J,  Intangible Assets Including Goodwill,  on
pages 89 and 90 for additional information.  

($
in millions)  

Income Taxes   

t  he
effective tax rate for 2009 was 26.0 percent, compared with 26.2 percent in
2008. The 0.2 point decrease was primarily driven by a more favorable
geographic mix of pre-tax income, the absence of the 2008 tax cost impacts
associated with the intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property and
the agreements reached regarding the completion of the  u.s.  federal income tax examination for the years 2004 and
2005, including the associated income tax reserve redeterminations.  t hese benefits were offset by a
decrease in 2009 in the utilization of foreign tax credits.  

e    arnings Per Share   

Basic
earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of
shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per
share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of
common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares
outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method.  d ilutive potential common shares
include outstanding stock options, share awards and convertible notes.  

*                     r  eflects
the adoption of the FASB guidance in determining whether instruments granted in
share-based payment transactions are participating securities.  s ee note B,  Accounting Changes,  on
pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

Actual
shares outstanding at  d ecember
31, 2009 and  d ecember 31, 2008
were 1,305.3 million and 1,339.1 million, respectively.  t he average number of common shares outstanding assuming
dilution was 46.4 million shares lower in 2009 versus 2008.  t he decrease was primarily the result
of the common stock repurchase program.  s ee
note N,  Equity Activity,  on pages 98 and 99 for additional information
regarding common stock activities.  a lso
see note R,  Earnings Per Share of Common Stock,  on page 104.  

Financial Position    

Dynamics    

At
December 31, 2009, the company s balance sheet and liquidity position remain
strong. Cash on hand at year end was $12,183 million. Total debt of $26,099
million decreased $7,826 million from prior year-end levels, primarily as a
result of the repayment of debt issued in support of the 2007 accelerated share
repurchase program. The commercial paper balance at December 31, 2009 was $235
million, down $233 million from December 31, 2008. In 2009, the company
generated $20,773 million in cash from operations, an increase of $1,961
million compared to 2008. The company has consistently generated strong cash
flow from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of
liquidity through the capital markets and its $10 billion global credit
facility.  

34    

Consistent with accounting
standards, the company remeasures the funded status of its retirement and
postretirement plans at December 31. The funded status is measured as the
difference between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit obligation
and is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. At December
31, 2009, primarily as a result of improved returns on plan assets, the overall
net underfunded position decreased $4,667 million from December 31, 2008, to a
net underfunded position of $13,818 million. This change is primarily reflected
in prepaid pension assets and retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations
which increased $1,401 million and decreased $3,500 million, respectively, from
year-end 2008 levels. Due to the improvement in the equity markets in 2009, the
return on the U.S. Personal Pension Plan assets was 11 percent, compared to a
negative 15 percent in 2008. The company s asset return in the non-U.S. plans
was approximately 14 percent compared to a negative 21 percent in 2008. At December
31, 2009, the company s qualified defined benefit plans worldwide were 99
percent funded with the U.S. qualified Personal Pension Plan 101 percent
funded.  

In addition, total equity
increased $9,170 million, net of tax, primarily as a result of an improvement
in retained earnings of $10,546 million driven by current year net income,
partially offset by net stock transactions which declined $4,390 million
primarily due to common stock repurchases.  

The assets and debt associated
with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company s
financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on page 65
are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. The      amounts
appearing in the separate Global Financing section on pages 57 through 61
are supplementary data presented to facilitate an understanding of the Global
Financing business.  

Working Capital   

($ in
millions)  

Working
capital increased $6,365 million compared to the prior year primarily as a
result of a net decrease in current liabilities. The key drivers are described
below:  

Current assets decreased $68
million due to:  

a  n
increase of $1,066 million in cash and cash equivalents and marketable
securities (see Cash Flow analysis below and on page 36); partially offset
by;  

                         a  
decrease of $1,541 million in short-term receivables, offset by a currency
benefit of $779 million, driven by short-term financing receivables due to
lower volumes;  

                         a  
decrease of $353 million in prepaid expenses and other current assets primarily
resulting from:   

                         a decrease of $500 million in derivative assets as a
result of changes in foreign currency rates primarily driven by instruments in
cash flow hedging relationships; partially offset by;   

                         an increase of approximately $236 million in services
pre-paid and deferred transition costs; and   

                         a    currency
benefit of $135 million.  

Current
liabilities decreased $6,433 million as a result of:  

a  
decrease in short-term debt of $7,068 million primarily driven by:   

                         $12,123 million in payments; partially offset by;   

                         reclasses of $2,282 million from long-term to
short-term debt to reflect maturity dates; and  

                         $3,502
million in new debt issuances.  

                         a  
decrease of $1,357 million in other accrued expenses and liabilities primarily
due to:   

                         a decrease of $508 million in derivative liabilities as
a result      of changes in foreign
currency rates primarily for certain economic hedges;  

                         a
decrease of $349 million in workforce reduction accruals; and  

                         a
decrease of $218 million in deferred tax liabilities; partially offset by;  

                         a  n
increase of $1,083 million in taxes payable as a result of   a   reclass from noncurrent liabilities related to
uncertain tax      benefits
and higher pre-tax income;  

                         a  n
increase of $606 million in deferred income mainly driven by a currency impact
of approximately $329 million; and  

                         a  n
increase of $423 million in accounts payable including a currency impact of
$131 million.  

c    ash Flow    

t  he
company s cash flow from operating, investing and financing activities, as
reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 66, is
summarized in the following table. These amounts include the cash flows
associated with the Global Financing business.  

35    

($ in
millions)  

Net
cash from operating activities for 2009 increased $1,961 million as compared to
2008 driven by the following key factors:  

An
increase in cash provided by accounts receivable of $1,857 million, driven by
Global Financing receivables due to lower volumes in 2009;  

                         Lower
payments resulted in a benefit in accounts payable of $1,030 million year to
year;  

                         Tax
refunds of approximately $710 million; partially offset by:  

                         Higher
retirement-related funding of $875 million;  

                         Derivative
instruments in cash flow hedging relationships representing a use of cash of
$247 million in the current year in comparison to a source of cash of $176
million in 2008; and  

                         Higher
payments for workforce rebalancing actions of $377 million.  

Net cash used in
investing activities decreased $2,556 million on a year-to-year basis driven
by:  

A
decrease of $5,119 million in cash used for acquisitions primarily driven by
the acquisition of Cognos in 2008;  

                         A
decrease in cash used in net capital spending of $704 million driven by a
decline in rental additions and lower investment requirements in the Strategic Outsourcing
and Microelectronics businesses; and  

                         An
increase in cash from divestitures of $329 million as a result of the Geodis
transaction in 2009; partially offset by:  

                         The
net impact of purchases and sales of marketable securities and other
investments that resulted in a use of cash of $2,005 million in the current
year in comparison to a source of cash in 2008 of $1,510 million.  

Net cash used in
financing activities increased $2,866 million compared to 2008 as a result of:  

An
increase of $5,019 million in net cash payments used to retire debt;  

                         A
decrease of $721 million in cash generated by other common stock transactions
primarily due to lower stock option exercises; partially offset by:  

                         Lower
common stock repurchases of $3,150 million.  

Within
total debt, on a net basis, the company utilized $7,463 million in net cash to
retire debt versus $2,444 million in net cash used in 2008. The net cash used
to retire debt in 2009 was comprised of: $13,495 million in cash payments to
settle debt and net payments of $651 million in short-term borrowings,
partially offset by $6,683 million of new debt issuances. See note K,  Borrowings, 
on pages 90 to 92 for a listing of the company s debt securities.  

Noncurrent
Assets and Liabilities   

($ in millions)  

*                     Reflects
the adoption of the FASB guidance on noncontrolling interests in consolidated
financial statements. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on pages 79 to 82
for additional information.  

The decrease in
noncurrent assets of $433 million compared to the prior year-end balance was
primarily driven by:  

A decrease of $3,075 million in deferred taxes primarily
driven by pension related activity;  

                         A decrease of $904 million in long-term financing
receivables, offset by a currency benefit of $365 million, driven by maturities
exceeding originations; and  

                         A decrease of $365 million in intangible assets driven
by amortization; partially offset by:  

                         An increase of $1,964 million in goodwill primarily
driven by a currency impact of $1,035 million and the acquisition of SPSS; and  

                         An increase of $1,401 million in pension assets mainly
driven by plan contributions and pension remeasurements.  

Long-term
debt decreased $758 million primarily due to reclasses to short-term debt as
certain instruments approached maturity ($2,282 million); offset by new net
debt issuances ($1,885 million).  

Other noncurrent liabilities,
excluding debt, decreased $2,481 million primarily driven by:  

A decrease of $3,500 million in retirement and
nonpension postretirement benefit obligations primarily driven by pension
remeasurements and plan contributions; partially offset by:  

36    

An increase in deferred income of $392 million
including a currency impact of $117 million;  

                         An increase in executive compensation plan accruals of
$300 million primarily due to improvement in market returns; and  

                         An increase of $200 million in deferred tax
liabilities.  

Debt   

The
company s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are
executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile.  

($ in millions)  

The
Global Financing business provides funding predominantly for the company s
external client assets as well as for certain assets under contract by other
IBM units. These assets, primarily for Global Services, generate long-term,
stable revenue streams similar to the Global Financing asset portfolio. Based
on their nature, these Global Services assets are leveraged consistent with the
balance of the Global Financing asset base. The debt analysis above is further
detailed in the Global Financing section on page 60.  

Total debt decreased $7,826
million in 2009 versus 2008, primarily as a result of the repayment of debt issued
in support of the 2007 accelerated share repurchase program.  

Given the significant leverage,
the company presents a debt-to-capitalization ratio which excludes Global
Financing debt and equity as management believes this is more representative of
the company s core business operations. This ratio can vary from period to
period as the company manages its global cash and debt positions.  

Core  debt-to-capitalization
ratio (excluding Global Financing debt and equity) was 16.0 percent at December
31, 2009 compared to 48.7 percent at December 31, 2008. The reduction was
primarily driven by the decrease in non-Global Financing debt of $5,849 million
and growth in non-Global Financing equity of $9,493 million from December 31,
2008 balances.  

Consolidated debt-to-capitalization
ratio at December 31, 2009 was 53.4 percent versus 71.4 percent at December 31,
2008.  

Equity   

($ in millions)  

*                     Reflects
the adoption of the FASB guidance on noncontrolling interests in consolidated
financial statements. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on pages 79 to 82
for additional information.  

Total equity increased
$9,170 million in 2009 as a result of several key factors:  

An increase of $10,546 million in retained earnings
primarily driven by net income of $13,425 million, partially offset by
dividends ($2,860 million); and  

                         An increase of $3,015 million as a result of lower
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss), primarily from a positive impact
from foreign currency translation adjustments of $1,732 million, in addition to
pension remeasurements and other retirement-related activities of $1,727
million; partially offset by deferred losses from hedging programs in the
current year of $481 million in comparison to deferred gains of $74 million in
2008; partially offset by:  

                         A decrease related to net stock transactions of $4,390
million, driven by less common stock repurchases in 2009 versus 2008.  

Consolidated
Fourth-Quarter Results   

($
and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*                     (5.5) percent adjusted for currency.  

+                     Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance in
determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
participating securities. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on pages 79 to
82 for additional information.  

37    

The
fourth quarter capped off a great year for the company in an uncertain economic
environment with financial performance driven by continued margin expansion,
profit growth and cash generation. Total revenue increased 0.8 percent as
reported and decreased 5.5 percent, adjusted for currency, versus the fourth
quarter of 2008. Systems and Technology year-to-year revenue growth improved
sequentially in the quarter with share gains in System p, System x and Storage.
Software had share gains in WebSphere, Tivoli and Key Branded Middleware.
Global Services revenue adjusted for currency, was consistent with
third-quarter performance while signings and backlog both increased year to
year. Gross profit margin expanded 40 basis points primarily due to improved
margins in services and systems as the company s productivity initiatives
continued to yield improvements in gross margin. The company has improved gross
margin in 21 of the last 22 quarters. Total expense and other income decreased
5.1 percent driven by operational expense management. Pre-tax income increased
9.9 percent and pre-tax margin improved 1.9 points versus the fourth-quarter
2008. Pre-tax profit increased and margins expanded in every segment. Net
income increased 8.7 percent and diluted earnings per share of $3.59 increased
9.8 percent year to year.  

The Global Services segments combined
had $14,630 million of revenue in the fourth quarter, an increase of 2.1
percent (decrease of 5 percent adjusted for currency) and delivered pre-tax
profit of $2,322 million, an increase of 6.7 percent year to year. Total
signings for Global Services in the fourth quarter were $18,763 million, an
increase of 9.0 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2008. Signings
in the quarter included 22 deals larger than $100 million. Outsourcing signings
of $11,385 million increased 15.0 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency). Consulting
and Systems Integration and Integrated Technology Services signings increased
1.0 percent (decreased 6 percent adjusted for currency) to $7,378 million.  

GTS revenue of $10,051 million
increased 4.4 percent (decreased 3 percent adjusted for currency) versus the
fourth quarter of 2008. GTS signings of $11,350 million increased 2.8 percent
(decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency) with outsourcing signings
increasing 4.7 percent (decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency), partially
offset by a 2.9 percent decrease (10 percent adjusted for currency) in
Integrated Technology Services signings. SO revenue increased 5.6 percent
(decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency). SO signings decreased 9.9 percent
(16 percent adjusted for currency). ITS revenue increased 0.2 percent
(decreased 7 percent adjusted for currency). Revenue performance largely
reflects signings performance which continued to be impacted by declines in OEM
as the portfolio shifts to higher value offerings. ITS signings continued to be
impacted by client deferrals and capital constraints. BTO revenue increased 7.0
percent (1 percent adjusted for currency) and signings increased 132.9 percent
(124 percent adjusted for currency).  

GTS gross profit margin improved
0.9 points to 35.8 percent with margin expansion in all lines of business. The GTS
segment fourth-quarter pre-tax profit was up 8.3 percent and the pre-tax margin
improved 60 basis points to 15.0 percent from fourth-quarter 2008.  

GBS revenue of $4,579 million
decreased 2.8 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the
fourth-quarter 2008. GBS signings of $7,413 million, increased 20.3 percent (13
percent adjusted for currency), driven by a 65.4 percent increase (55 percent
adjusted for currency) in Application Outsourcing signings. Consulting and Systems
Integration signings increased 3.4 percent (decreased 3 percent adjusted for
currency) in the quarter, a significant improvement compared to third-quarter
2009. In the fourth quarter, small deal performance improved as the quarter
progressed, general business and distribution sectors grew and the growth
markets were up 34 percent, adjusted for currency.  

GBS gross profit increased 2.9
percent in the quarter with the gross margin improving 1.7 points to 30.3
percent. The GBS segment pre-tax profit increased 3.5 percent in the fourth
quarter and the pre-tax margin expanded 1.1 points to 16.0 percent, a record
margin performance for the segment. Pre-tax margin was driven by strong
utilization in the delivery centers, good subcontractor resource management and
spending management.  

Software revenue of $6,577
million increased 2.4 percent (decreased 4 percent adjusted for currency). Revenue
performance highlighted continued strength in demand in the growth markets,
strong contributions from recent acquisitions and an increase in the volume of
small deal activity in North America. Key Branded Middleware increased 6.1
percent (flat adjusted for currency) and represented 63 percent of total
software revenue, an increase of 2 points year to year. WebSphere Family
revenue increased 12.9 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency) in the
quarter. Business Process Management, Commerce and DataPower products all had
double-digit revenue growth. ILOG performed well again this quarter and
contributed to the overall WebSphere growth. Information Management increased
7.1 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency). Business Analytics continues to
be a key growth area and Cognos posted strong double-digit revenue growth in
the quarter. InfoSphere Warehouse, which helps customers turn information into
a strategic asset, also grew double digits in the quarter. Tivoli software
revenue increased 7.2 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency). Enterprise Asset
Management, which is part of the Smarter Planet strategy, grew over 40 percent
in the growth markets, adjusted for currency. Tivoli storage continued its
strong growth as customers manage their rapidly growing storage data. Data Protection
and Storage Management had double-digit revenue growth, with broad-based
geography and sector growth. Rational revenue decreased 4.5 percent (10 percent
adjusted for currency) and Lotus revenue decreased 5.3 percent (11 percent
adjusted for currency).  

38    

Software gross profit increased
2.4 percent with a flat margin year to year. The Software segment delivered
pre-tax profit of $3,058 million, an increase of 9.6 percent. The pre-tax
margin of 41.5 percent increased 2.4 points compared to fourth-quarter 2008.  

Systems and Technology revenue
of $5,190 million decreased 4.3 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency). The
rate of year-to-year decline improved sequentially for the second consecutive
quarter. System z revenue decreased 26.8 percent (31 percent adjusted for
currency). System z MIPS shipments decreased 19 percent year to year. Volume
performance was consistent with expectations for this point in the product
cycle. Converged System p revenue declined 13.8 percent (18 percent adjusted
for currency). Although revenue has declined, the brand has continued to gain
market share, up 4 points in the quarter. In the fourth quarter, sales
generated by UNIX competitive displacements was approximately $200 million. System
x revenue increased 36.8 percent (30 percent adjusted for currency), with share
gains in server (3 points) and blades (6 points). The improved sales model and
enhanced product offerings were the key contributors to the fourth quarter
performance. Systems Storage revenue increased 1.4 percent (decreased 4 percent
adjusted for currency). Total disk revenue increased 6.1 percent (1 percent
adjusted for currency) driven by strong growth in midrange and XIV. Tape
revenue declined 9.8 percent (15 percent adjusted for currency) versus the
fourth quarter of 2008. Microelectronics OEM revenue increased 1.9 percent in
the fourth quarter. The company s 300 millimeter fabrication facility is
nearing full utilization and the 45 nanometer process output was sold out again
this quarter.  

Systems and Technology gross
margin of 42.5 percent, increased 2.6 points versus the fourth quarter of 2008
with margin improvement in all brands. This was the highest gross profit margin
since the fourth quarter of 2007 and was driven by improvements in System x
server and converged System p. The Systems and Technology segment pre-tax
profit increased 15.3 percent to $832 million. Pre-tax margin increased 2.6
points to 15.4 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2008.  

Global Financing external
revenue of $621 million decreased 5.9 percent (12 percent adjusted for
currency), driven by decreased financing revenue. The Global Financing segment
delivered 2.0 points of external gross margin improvement and 5.5 points of
total pre-tax margin expansion in the fourth quarter of 2009.  

Geographic revenue increased
0.7 percent (decreased 6 percent adjusted for currency) with declines in all
geographies, adjusted for currency. Revenue in the major markets decreased 2.2
percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) and was 1 point weaker than third
quarter performance, adjusted for currency. The U.K. had solid growth and
revenue performance improved sequentially in Canada and Japan (adjusted for
currency). Revenue in the growth markets increased 14.3 percent (2 percent adjusted
for currency), 9 points higher than the major markets, adjusted for currency. The
growth markets contributed 20 percent of the geographic revenue in the fourth
quarter. The BRIC countries were up 18.4 percent (7 percent adjusted for
currency) driven by India, Brazil and China. Americas revenue was $11,106
million, a decrease of 3.0 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). Adjusted
for currency, revenue increased 2 percent in Latin America, while the U.S. declined
8 percent and Canada declined 1 percent. EMEA revenue increased 2.4 percent
(decreased 7 percent adjusted for currency) to $9,694 million. In the major
market countries, when adjusted for currency, revenue in Germany declined 8
percent, France declined 12 percent, Italy declined 11 percent and Spain
declined 11 percent while the U.K. was up 4 percent. Asia Pacific revenue
increased 5.7 percent (decreased 3 percent adjusted for currency) to $5,782
million, with the growth markets up 14.3 percent (3 percent adjusted for
currency) and Japan down 2.8 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency).  

Total expense and other income
decreased 5.1 percent compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 and the
expense-to-revenue-ratio improved 1.5 points. The decrease was driven by lower
operational expenses (approximately 15 points), partially offset by 9 points
due to the impact of currency and 1 point due to the impact of acquisitions. The
company continues to execute its operational plan to increase efficiency and
drive productivity by leveraging its scale and global presence. Initiatives
such as globalization of support functions and services delivery and workforce
balancing have yielded significant expense and cost savings. Within selling,
general and administrative expense, workforce reduction charges decreased approximately
$340 million in the fourth quarter.  

The company s effective tax
rate in the fourth-quarter 2009 was 24.6 percent compared with 23.8 percent in
the fourth quarter of 2008. The higher rate was primarily driven by higher
utilization of tax credits in the prior year.  

Share repurchases totaled
$3,128 million in the fourth quarter. The weighted-average number of diluted
common shares outstanding in the fourth quarter of 2009 was 1,340.7 million
compared with 1,353.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2008.  

The company ended the quarter
with $12,183 million of cash and cash equivalents and generated $6,448 million
in cash flow provided by operating activities driven primarily by net income. Net
cash from investing activities was a use of cash of $2,495 million in fourth
quarter of 2009 and Net cash from financing activities was a use of cash of
$1,206 million.  

39    

Prior Year in Review   

The
Prior Year in Review section provides a summary of the company s financial
performance in 2008 as compared to 2007. For a detailed discussion of 2008
performance, see the 2008 Annual Report.  

($ and
shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*                     2.3 percent adjusted for currency.  

**              At December 31.  

+                     Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance in
determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are
participating securities. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on pages 79 to
82 for additional information.  

++              Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See note B,
 Accounting Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information  

NM Not meaningful  

Continuing Operations   

In
2008, the company performed extremely well in a difficult economic environment,
delivering record levels of revenue, pre-tax profit, earnings per share and
cash flow from operations. The financial performance reflected the continuing
strength of the company s global model and the results of the ongoing
transformation of the business. The key elements of the company s
transformation include:  

A continuing shift to higher value businesses;  

                         Investing for growth in the emerging markets;  

                         Global integration;  

                         Investing in innovation; and  

                         Ongoing productivity resulting in higher profit
margins.  

Overall,
the company capitalized on the opportunities in the global economies,
generating approximately 65 percent of its revenue outside the U.S., in
delivering full-year growth of 4.9 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).
Revenue increased in all geographies, both on an as reported basis and adjusted
for currency  the revenue performance, adjusted for currency, was stable
throughout the year as the company focused on solutions that meet clients 
needs. Revenue from the growth markets organization increased 9.8 percent (10
percent adjusted for currency). In these markets, where the growth was driven
by the infrastructure build-out, the company invested aggressively to capture
these opportunities. For the full year, growth in these markets, adjusted for
currency, was 8 points greater than the major markets.  

Gross profit margins improved,
reflecting the shift to higher value businesses, pricing for value and the
continued focus on productivity and cost management. Pre-tax income from
continuing operations grew 15.4 percent and net income from continuing
operations increased 18.4 percent reflecting an improvement in the tax rate.
Diluted earnings per share improved 24.3 percent reflecting the strong growth
in net income and the benefits of the common stock repurchase program. In 2008,
the company repurchased approximately 90 million shares of its common stock.  

The increase in 2008 revenue
was primarily due to:  

Continued strong performance from Global Technology
Services and Global Business Services with growth in all business lines and
geographic units;  

                         Continued strong demand in the Software business,
driven by Key Branded Middleware products, with strong contributions from
strategic acquisitions; and   

                         Continued strength in the growth markets.  

The increase in income from
continuing operations before income taxes in 2008 was primarily due to the
revenue growth and gross profit margin improvements in the Global Services and
Software segments.  

40    

The following is an analysis of
the 2008 versus 2007 reportable segment results for Global Services, Systems
and Technology and Software. The Global Financing segment analysis is included
in the Global Financing section on pages 57 through 61.  

Global Services   

($
in millions)  

Global
Technology Services revenue increased 8.8 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2008 versus 2007 with strong performance across all lines of
business. Total signings in GTS of $34,693 million increased 1 percent (flat
adjusted for currency) led by Integrated Technology Services (ITS) signings
growth of 5 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency). Outsourcing signings
decreased 1 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  

Strategic Outsourcing (SO)
revenue was up 7.9 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) with growth in all
geographies, driven by prior year s signings and continued growth in the base
accounts. SO signings in 2008 increased 3 percent (1 percent adjusted for
currency) when compared to 2007. Signings were very strong in the fourth
quarter (up 20 percent), as clients focused on the value of the SO offerings in
the current environment. The initiatives around standardization, global
integration and improved efficiency are driving improvements in quality and
customer satisfaction which are reflected in the signings performance and in
improved profitability.  

ITS revenue increased 10.0
percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007 led by growth in
key infrastructure offerings such as Green Data Center and Converged
Communications. ITS infrastructure offerings deliver high-value, standardized,
asset-based services that leverage the company s services, systems and software
capabilities, providing clients end-to-end solutions and processes that
transform their businesses.  

Business Transformation
Outsourcing (BTO) revenue increased 11.2 percent (12 percent adjusted for
currency) with growth in all geographies, led by Asia Pacific. The Daksh
business, which is focused on business process outsourcing, delivered strong
growth. BTO signings decreased 18 percent (14 percent adjusted for currency) in
2008 compared to 2007.  

Maintenance revenue increased
8.7 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) with growth in availability
services on both IBM and non-IBM IT equipment.  

Global Business Services (GBS)
revenue increased 8.8 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008, with
balanced growth across all three geographies. Revenue performance was led by
growth in Application Management Services (12.5 percent) and Core Consulting
(6.1 percent). Total signings of $22,488 million increased 2 percent (decreased
1 percent adjusted for currency), led by a 10 percent (6 percent adjusted for
currency) growth in Consulting and Systems Integration signings. Growth was
driven by offerings that enable clients to reduce cost and conserve capital. In
the second half of the year, signings for transformational and compliance
offerings also increased. Application Outsourcing signings decreased 14 percent
(16 percent adjusted for currency) year over year.  

41    

($
in millions)  

GTS
gross profit increased 18.5 percent compared to 2007, with gross profit margin
improving 2.7 points. All lines of business delivered gross margin expansion
year over year driven by a combination of a mix to higher value offerings and
an improved cost structure. Segment pre-tax profit increased 29.5 percent to
$4,607 million with a pre-tax margin of 11.3 percent, an increase of 1.9 points
versus 2007. At year-end 2008, GTS had delivered six consecutive quarters of
double-digit pre-tax profit growth. The margin improvement was driven primarily
by a delivery structure that maximizes utilization and flexibility, a mix to
higher value offerings, lower retirement-related costs and improved
productivity.  

GBS gross profit increased 23.5
percent to $5,238 million in 2008 when compared to 2007, and the gross profit
margin improved 3.2 points. Segment pre-tax profit increased 29.9 percent to
$2,681 million with a pre-tax margin of 13.0 percent, an improvement of 2.2
points year over year. This was the third straight year of profit growth
greater than 20 percent in GBS and demonstrates the results of a strong
operating discipline and the benefits of a globally integrated operating model.
The margin expansion was driven by improved utilization, cost and expense
management, stable pricing and lower retirement-related costs.  

At December 31, 2008, the
estimated Global Services backlog at actual currency rates was $130 billion
($117 billion adjusted for currency), a decrease of $6 billion ($2 billion
adjusted for currency) from prior year-end levels.  

Software   

($
in millions)  

42    

Software
revenue of $22,089 million increased 10.5 percent (8 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2008 led by growth in the Key Branded Middleware products and
strong contributions from the annuity base and acquisitions. Clients continue
to embed the company s software in the fabric of their IT infrastructures.  

Key Branded Middleware revenue
increased 14.4 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) and represented 56
percent of total Software segment revenue, an increase of 2 points from 2007.
When adjusted for currency, growth in 2008 was led by Information Management, Rational
and Lotus. Strategic acquisitions, including Cognos and Telelogic, have
extended the segment s middleware capabilities.  

WebSphere Family revenue
increased 6.2 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 and was led by
growth in WebSphere Application Servers and WebSphere Business Integration
software. In December 2008, the company completed the acquisition of ILOG,
whose products help customers improve business decisions with optimization,
visualization and business rules software. The WebSphere products provide
the foundation for Web-enabled applications and are a key product set in
deploying a client s SOA. Information Management revenue increased 24.5 percent
(22 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus the prior year, reflecting
contribution from Cognos and strong demand for the distributed relational
database products. Cognos  performance management solution helps customers
improve decision-making across the enterprise to optimize business performance.  

Lotus revenue increased 10.4
percent (8 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 led by growth in Lotus Notes
products as customers continue to invest to improve their workforce efficiency.
Lotus software is well established as a tool for providing improved workplace
collaboration and productivity.  

Tivoli revenue increased 2.9
percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 when compared to 2007.
Revenue performance was led by growth in Tivoli Security and Storage Management
products. Tivoli software provides the advanced capabilities required to run
large mission-critical environments. This includes security and storage
software which helps customers improve utilization and reduce costs.  

Rational revenue increased 13.2
percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 driven primarily by Telelogic
contributions. Telelogic s suite of system programming tools complements Rational s
IT tool set, providing a common framework for software and systems delivery
across a clients enterprise.  

Revenue from Other middleware
products increased 5.2 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus
the prior year. This software product set includes more mature products which
provide a more stable flow of revenue.  

Other software segment revenue
increased 34.4 percent (31 percent adjusted for currency) versus 2007
reflecting continued growth in software-related services.  

($ in millions)  

Software
segment gross profit increased 10.8 percent to $18,859 million in 2008, driven
primarily by the strong revenue growth. The large annuity base of this business
continues to provide a predictable and growing profit stream. Gross profit
margin was 85.4 percent in 2008, an increase of 0.2 points versus 2007. The
company has been investing significantly in the software business with good
results. The Software segment contributed $7,075 million of pre-tax profit in
2008, an increase of 17.9 percent versus 2007 while successfully integrating
Cognos and Telelogic. Software contributed approximately 40 percent of the
company s segment pre-tax profit in 2008. The segment pre-tax profit margin
increased 1.7 points to 28.5 percent. The pre-tax income and margin
improvements have been driven primarily by revenue growth and increasing
operational efficiencies.  

43    

Systems
and Technology   

($ in millions)  

NM Not
meaningful  

Systems
and Technology revenue decreased 9.5 percent (down 11 percent adjusted for
currency) in 2008 versus 2007. In June 2007, the company divested its
printing business. Systems and Technology revenue, excluding the divested
printing business, decreased 7.8 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency) in
2008 versus 2007. Total Systems revenue decreased 4.9 percent (6 percent
adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007.  

In the current economic environment,
clients are focused on reducing the cost of running their IT infrastructure.
Virtualization, which provides the capability to run multiple workloads on a
single server, is a key enabler of efficiency. System z is the leading platform
for virtualization as it is able to support thousands of images and operate
fully utilized. The company s POWER architecture supports hundreds of
partitions, often driving utilization rates of over 60 percent. Both of these
platforms leverage the entire system, from the company s custom semiconductors
through the software stack, to achieve these high levels of efficiency and
lower cost of ownership. The distributed computing model, which utilizes many
small servers, cannot offer the same level of efficiency and value.  

System z revenue increased 12.5
percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. System z
revenue growth was particularly strong in the Americas (up 19 percent), as well
as in the Financial Services and Industrial Sectors globally. Clients in emerging
markets also leveraged this platform s stability and efficiency during 2008.
MIPS (millions of instructions per second) shipments increased 25 percent in
2008 versus 2007, posting double-digit growth in each quarter, reflecting
strength in both traditional and specialty workloads. Specialty MIPS increased
68 percent in 2008, as clients exploit the capabilities of System z to bring
new Linux and Java applications to this highly efficient and cost effective
platform.  

Converged System p revenue
increased 11.2 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007,
reflecting solid demand for the energy efficiencies and multi-operating system
capabilities of POWER6 technology. Clients concluded that POWER6 technology is
the right solution for a multitude of workloads. The revenue growth was
primarily driven by mid-range servers which increased 32 percent and high-end
servers which increased 3 percent in 2008 versus 2007.  

Legacy System i revenue
decreased 66.1 percent (67 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007,
as the company continues to transition the System i customer base to the
converged POWER platform within System p.  

System x revenue decreased 16.9
percent (19 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. System x server
revenue declined 15 percent and blades revenue decreased 3 percent, in 2008
versus 2007, respectively. The decline in server revenue reflects a significant
slowdown in the x86 market, especially in the second half of 2008, as clients
are virtualizing and consolidating workloads onto more efficient platforms such
as POWER and mainframe.  

System Storage revenue
decreased 3.4 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. Total
disk revenue was essentially flat in 2008 versus 2007. Enterprise Disk revenue
increased 2 percent primarily due to increased demand for the DS8000 product,
while mid-range disk revenue declined 15 percent. Tape revenue declined 10
percent in 2008 primarily due to reduced demand and clients deciding to
purchase additional media to expand the utilization of their existing devices.  

Microelectronics OEM revenue
decreased 25.1 percent (25 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007.
The primary mission of this business is to provide leadership technology for
the systems business, as demonstrated during 2008 in the new System z10
mainframe and POWER6 systems.  

44    

Retail Stores Solutions revenue
decreased 15.0 percent (16 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007,
reflecting weakness in the retail sector and a compare to a strong 2007, when a
new programmable point-of-sale solution was being delivered to large clients.  

($
in millions)  

Gross
margin decreased by 1.7 points versus the prior year. This decrease was
primarily driven by margin declines in System z, System x and Microelectronics
OEM which impacted the overall margin by 1.6 points, 1.3 points and 1.2 points,
respectively. Partially offsetting these margin declines was a revenue mix
benefit of 2.7 points due to the increased revenue in System z and converged System
p.  

Systems and Technology segment
pre-tax margin declined 2.0 points to 7.7 percent in 2008 reflecting the lower
revenue and gross profit margin in 2008 versus 2007.  

Global Financing    

See
page 57 for an analysis of Global Financing s segment results.  

Geographic Revenue   

($
in millions)  

Geographic
revenue increased 5.9 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) to $100,939
million in 2008 when compared to 2007. Revenue increased in all geographies in
2008, and adjusted for currency, revenue growth was strongest in the Americas
followed by Europe and Asia Pacific. Revenue from the growth markets
organization increased 9.8 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) while
growth in the more established major markets was   5.1   percent (2 percent adjusted for currency).  

Americas revenue increased 4.1
percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008. Revenue increased in all
regions with the U.S. up 2.9 percent, Canada 5.6 percent (6 percent adjusted
for currency) and Latin America 13.9 percent (11 percent adjusted for
currency).  

Europe/Middle East/Africa
(EMEA) revenue increased 6.7 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008
when compared to 2007. The majority of major market countries performed well
led by Spain which grew 12.0 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency), Germany
increased 10.8 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) and France increased
9.0 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency). Italy increased 5.8 percent
(decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency) while the U.K. decreased 4.9
percent (increased 4 percent adjusted for currency).  

Asia Pacific revenue increased
8.3 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency) year over year. Revenue increased
in the India, South Korea, ASEAN, Australia/New Zealand and China regions with
combined growth of 8.1 percent (9 percent adjusted for currency). Japan
revenue, which represented 49 percent of the Asia Pacific revenue base,
increased 8.5 percent as reported, but decreased 5 percent adjusted for
currency in 2008 when compared to 2007.  

Across the geographies,
aggregate revenue from the countries comprising the growth markets organization
increased 9.8 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 and
represented approximately 18 percent of the company s total geographic revenue.
The company has continued to invest to capture new infrastructure spending in
the growth markets. Adjusted for currency, growth in these markets was 8 points
higher than in the major markets. The BRIC countries, a subset of the growth  

45    

markets,
together grew 17.6 percent (15 percent adjusted for currency), with growth in
India of 25.8 percent (33 percent adjusted for currency), Brazil 18.3 percent
(13 percent adjusted for currency), China 14.7 percent (8 percent adjusted for
currency) and Russia 11.0 percent (11 percent adjusted for currency).  

OEM revenue decreased 22.4
percent (23 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 when compared to 2007,
driven by reduced demand in the Microelectronics OEM business.  

Total Expense and Other Income   

($
in millions)  

The
key drivers year to year in total expense and other income were approximately:  

Operational expense, (1) point  

                         Acquisitions, 5 points  

                         Currency, 2 points  

In
2008, the company continued to focus on productivity improvements in its more
established markets and increased its investments in the growth markets. Within
selling, general and administrative expense (SG A), total sales and
marketing expense increased 4 percent year to year (2 percent adjusted for
currency). Sales and marketing expense in the growth markets increased 13
percent (13 percent adjusted for currency), as compared to major markets where
sales and marketing expense increased 3 percent (1 percent adjusted for
currency) year to year. On a consolidated basis, general and administrative
expenses, which are indirect expenses incurred in the business, increased 2
percent (flat at constant currency) year to year.  

Total SG A expense
increased 6.0 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) in 2008 versus 2007. The
increase in SG A was primarily due to acquisition-related spending,
predominantly for Cognos and Telelogic, which accounted for 5 points of the
increase, while the effects of currency accounted for 2 points. Workforce
reductions ongoing expense increased $387 million primarily due to charges
recorded in the fourth quarter reflecting workforce actions in Japan ($120
million) and other ongoing skills rebalancing that is a regular element of the
company s business model. In addition, bad debt expense increased $206 million
primarily driven by additional specific accounts receivable reserves reflecting
the current economic environment in many industries. The company s accounts
receivable provision coverage at December 31, 2008 was 2.0 percent, an
increase of 50 basis points from year-end 2007. These increases were partially
offset by lower retirement-related expense of $287 million.  

Other (income) and expense was
income of $298 million and $626 million in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The
decrease in income was primarily driven by higher foreign currency transaction
losses ($285 million) and lower interest income reflecting lower cash balances
and the current interest rate environment ($222 million). These decreases were
partially offset by a gain on derivative instruments which primarily hedge
foreign currency risks ($221 million). Included within the foreign currency
hedging activity, the company hedges its major cross-border cash flows to
mitigate the effect of currency volatility in its global cash planning, which
also reduces volatility in the year-over-year results. The impact of these
hedging programs is primarily reflected in other (income) and expense, as well
as cost of goods sold. The impact of losses from these cash flow hedges
reflected in other (income) and expense was $186 million, a decrease of $24
million year to year.  

The increase in RD E expense
of $184 million was primarily driven by acquisitions and investments to
maintain technology leadership across the company s offerings. Software
spending increased $262 million, partially offset by lower spending in Systems
and Technology ($54 million) and other unit spending ($74 million).  

IP income of $1,153 million
increased 20.4 percent in 2008, however, there were no significant individual IP
transactions in 2008 or 2007. The improvement year to year was primarily driven
by the Systems and Technology business.  

The increase in interest
expense of $63 million to $673 million was primarily due to the increase in
debt in 2007 associated with the financing of the accelerated share repurchase
agreements, partially offset by lower interest rates in 2008. See note N,  Equity
Activity,  on page 98 for additional information regarding the accelerated
share repurchase. Overall interest expense, including amounts reflected in cost
of financing, for 2008 was $1,462 million, an increase of $40 million versus
2007.  

46    

Income Taxes   

The
effective tax rate for 2008 was 26.2 percent, compared with 28.1 percent in
2007. The 1.9 point decrease was primarily driven by the 2008 net increase in
the utilization of foreign and state tax credits (2.9 points), the benefit
associated with the second quarter 2008 agreement reached with the U.S.
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) regarding claims for certain tax incentives (1.7
points) and the benefit related to certain issues associated with newly
published U.S. tax regulations (1.2 points). These benefits were partially
offset by several items including the net impact related to the completion of
the U.S. federal income tax examination for the years 2004 and 2005 including
the associated income tax reserve redeterminations (0.5 points), the second
quarter 2008 tax cost associated with the intercompany transfer of certain
intellectual property (2.8 points) and lower capital loss utilization in 2008
(0.7 points). The remaining items were individually insignificant.  

Financial Position   

Total
assets decreased $10,907 million ($5,854 million adjusted for currency)
primarily due to decreases in cash and cash equivalents ($2,250 million),
prepaid pension assets ($15,816 million), short-term marketable securities
($989 million) and total financing receivables ($1,233 million). These
decreases were partially offset by increases in long-term deferred taxes
($5,757 million), goodwill ($3,941 million) and intangible assets ($771
million).  

Total liabilities increased
$4,123 million ($5,301 million adjusted for currency) driven primarily by
increases in retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations
($5,871 million) and total deferred income ($547 million), partially offset by
decreases in total debt ($1,349 million) and accounts payable ($1,041 million).  

Total equity of $13,584 million
decreased $15,030 million versus 2007. Net income of $12,334 million was offset
by the effects of pension remeasurements and other retirement-related items
($14,856 million), common/treasury stock activity ($6,323 million), dividends
($2,585 million) and equity translation adjustments ($3,552 million).  

The company generated $18,812
million in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $2,718
million, compared to 2007, primarily driven by increased net income ($1,916
million). Net cash used in investing activities of $9,285 million was $4,611
million higher than 2007, primarily due to increased spending for acquisitions
($5,304 million). Net cash used in financing activities of $11,834 million
increased $7,095 million primarily due to debt transactions ($14,556 million),
partially offset by lower common stock repurchases ($8,249 million) in 2008
versus 2007.  

Discontinued Operations   

On
December 31, 2002, the company sold its HDD business to Hitachi for
approximately $2 billion. The final cash payment of $399 million was received
on December 30, 2005.  

In 2007, the company reported a
net loss of less than $1 million, net of tax. There was no activity in 2008.  

Other Information   

Looking Forward   

Looking
forward, the company enters 2010 in excellent operational and financial
position. Since the last recession in 2002, the company has consistently
generated strong profit and cash growth. In that timeframe (2003-2009), the
company has added $12 billion to its pre-tax income base; pre-tax income margin
has expanded more than 2.5 times; earnings per diluted share is up 4 times, and
cumulatively, the company has generated approximately $115 billion in cash flow
from operating activities. This financial performance is the result of the
transformation of the business that started at the beginning of the decade. Its
driven by a combination of shifting the company s business mix, improving
leverage through productivity and investing to capture growth opportunities.  

The company has remixed its
business to move into higher value areas exiting commoditizing businesses,
while acquiring 108 companies since 2000 for a total of approximately $22
billion in net cash. These portfolio actions have contributed to a significant
change in the company s business profile. In 2000, Global Services segment
pre-tax income was $4.5 billion; in 2009, it was over $8 billion. The Software
growth is even more dynamic. In 2000, Software segment pre-tax income was $2.8
billion; in 2009, it also was over $8 billion. In 2009, over 90 percent of
segment pre-tax income came from Software, Global Services and Global
Financing, with Software and Global Services each contributing 42 percent of
segment pre-tax income. The portfolio generates high profitability and the
company will continue to remix to higher value through organic investments and
acquisitions.  

The company has had an ongoing
focus on driving operating leverage through productivity. The company has
leveraged its scale and global presence to improve processes and productivity
in a number of areas, including support functions and service delivery. In
2009, the company yielded $3.7 billion of cost and expense savings from the
structural actions it has taken, driving gross margin improvement and
reductions in operational expense. These actions have reduced the fixed cost
base and improved the operational balance point. Going forward, this will
provide an advantage as the spending environment improves with solid operating
leverage off of the company s leaner cost base.  

47    

A  nother key element of the company s transformation is
the significant investments it has made for growth investments enabled by the
strong margins, profitability and cash base. The company continues to invest to
capture the opportunity in the emerging markets. In 2009, the revenue growth in
the growth markets remained 8 points greater than the major markets. The
company is also investing in capabilities that differentiate IBM and accelerate
the development of new market opportunities areas like business analytics,
cloud computing and smarter planet. The company remains committed to technology
leadership, and in 2009, the company invested approximately $6 billion in
research and development. The company s organic investments have been
complemented with acquisitions, with a key focus on business analytics which
provide a solid platform for the Smarter Planet initiatives. Since 2005, the
company has invested approximately $8.5 billion in net cash for 14 strategic
acquisitions to build its business analytics capabilities.  

The last decade has seen a
significant transformation of IBM. The company will continue to shift to higher
value areas, improve the efficiency of the business and invest where management
sees the best long-term opportunities. This transformation and the focus going
forward positions the company for growth moving into 2010.  

In May 2007, the company
met with investors and analysts and discussed a road map to deliver earnings
per share in 2010 in the range of $10 to $11 per share, or 14 to 16 percent
compound growth rate from 2006. The company s 2010 road map is comprised of two
key components. First, the 2010 road map includes generating earnings per share
in the range of $9 to $10 per share, or 10 to 14 percent growth from 2006
through a combination of operational elements including revenue growth, margin
improvement, growth initiatives, acquisitions and effective capital deployment
to fund growth and provide returns to shareholders through dividends and common
stock repurchases.  

In addition to these
operational elements, the company s road map to the $10 to $11 per share range
includes the projected benefit of retirement-related costs based on December 31,
2006 assumptions. Actual retirement-related costs will depend on several
factors including financial market performance, the interest rate environment
and actuarial assumptions. In March 2008 and May 2009, the company
met with investors and analysts and discussed the progress the company is
making on its 2010 road map.  

The company s performance in
2009 highlighted the benefits of its global reach and the strength of its
business model. The financial results reflected solid progress on major
elements of the long-term goals. Despite a challenging economy, with diluted
earnings per share of $10.01 in 2009, the company achieved its road map
objective one year early.  

In January 2010, the
company disclosed that it is expecting earnings of at least $11.00 per diluted
share for the full year 2010, with consistent earnings per share growth
throughout the year. Also in January 2010, the company disclosed that for the
first quarter of 2010, the company expects a 4-5 point improvement in its
year-to-year revenue growth rate compared to the fourth quarter of 2009, at
both actual currency rates and at constant currency. This would represent a
mid-single-digit revenue growth at actual rates compared to the 0.8 percent
growth in the fourth quarter of 2009. The company is confident in its ability
to continue to leverage its business model to expand margins, grow profit,
generate cash, return value to shareholders and return to revenue growth in
2010.  

The continued investments in Software
have led to this segment s emergence as a strong source of revenue and the
largest contributor to the company s pre-tax profit. The Software business is
differentiated in the industry by both the strength of its individual products
and the breadth of the software offerings. Clients continue to rely on the
extensive middleware portfolio to help them transform their business,
streamline costs and seek new business opportunities. The key to continued Software
growth stems from the ability to maintain and grow this industry-leading
software business. Investments will be aligned to advance the company s growth
strategy through new client acquisition, with specific focus on key industries
and local businesses. The company will also continue to focus on expanding its
software capabilities through a combination of internal development and
strategic acquisitions. In January 2010, the company disclosed that it expects Software
to deliver a double-digit revenue growth rate, at actual rates, in the first
quarter of 2010.  

Within the Global Services
business, profit margins improved and the company continues to yield
significant results from the targeted actions and investments it has made in
the last few years. The business has been transformed into one that is more
flexible and more focused on higher-value segments of the market. The two
services segments are well-positioned heading into 2010 driven by: an 11
percent growth (at constant currency) in outsourcing signings in 2009; a
backlog of $137 billion at December 31, 2009; improving trends in Global
Business Services; and, a global delivery structure that has enabled the
company to perform well in a tough environment. In addition, the portfolio is
strong with a complement of offerings and capabilities that deliver both high
value and productivity to clients. Going forward the Global Services business
will look to build upon its momentum by continuing to deliver value and by
focusing on further enhancements to its offerings/integrated solutions
portfolio and continuing to improve both the skills and structure of the
business.  

In the Systems and Technology
business, the company will continue to focus its investments on differentiating
technologies with leadership and high-growth potential including POWER,
high-performance computing, virtualization, nanotechnology and energy
efficiency. In this market, the value has shifted to the high end to address
clients  needs to consolidate and virtualize their environments. The company
will focus on providing clients with a clear path to a fully dynamic
infrastructure that not only reduces   

48    

cost,
but is both intelligent and secure. The systems product line will be significantly
refreshed in 2010 with the release of the next generation System z mainframe in
the second half and the next generation POWER systems in System p beginning in
the first quarter of 2010.  

In 2010, Global Financing will
continue to focus on expanding its core business by accelerating growth in the
participation rates for IBM products and services transactions. In addition,
the business will drive increased operational efficiency and sales productivity
through the deployment of its single operating model initiative. This global
initiative is focused on simplifying processes, standardizing operations and
optimizing business performance.  

The company expects 2010
pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $1.5 billion, an
increase of approximately $100 million compared to 2009. This estimate reflects
current pension plan assumptions and the impacts of recent non-U.S. pension
plan redesign efforts. See note U,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 109
through 121 for additional information.  

The company expects in the
normal course of business that its effective tax rate in 2010 will be
approximately 26.0-26.5 percent. The rate will change year to year based on
non-recurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes
in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of
income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation,
state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.  

Effective January 1, 2010,
the company will implement several new accounting standards that have been
issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board. These standards include:
amended guidance for revenue recognition for arrangements with multiple deliverables;
guidance that revises the scope of existing software revenue recognition
accounting; amendments to the accounting rules for variable interest
entities and transfers of financial assets; and, additional disclosure
requirements for fair value measurements. The company has evaluated the new
guidance and does not expect a material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
See note B,  Accounting Changes , on pages 79 to 82 for additional
information.  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

The
company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations, improving
results year to year and providing a source of funds ranging between $14.9
billion and $20.8 billion per year over the past five years. The company
provides for additional liquidity through several sources: maintaining an
adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources, a committed global
credit facility and other committed and uncommitted lines of credit worldwide. At
December 31, 2009, the company had total unused lines of credit of $17,314
million. The following table provides a summary of the major sources of
liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2005 through 2009.  

Cash Flow and Liquidity Trends   

($
in billions)  

The
major rating agencies  ratings on the company s debt securities at December 31,
2009 appear in the table below and remain unchanged from December 31,
2008. The company s debt securities do not contain any acceleration clauses
which could change the scheduled maturities of the obligation. In addition, the
company does not have  ratings trigger  provisions in its debt covenants or
documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and
seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit
rating. The company s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments
contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the
agreement if the company s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At
December 31, 2009, the fair value of those instruments that were in a
liability position was $1,555 million, before any applicable netting, and this
position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the
level of the company s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The
company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in
credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial
position or liquidity.  

Moody s   

Standard   

Investors   

Fitch   

Poor s   

Service   

Ratings   

Senior long-term debt  

A+  

A1  

A+  

Commercial paper  

A-1  

Prime-1  

F1  

The
company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with
applicable accounting standards for cash flow presentation on page 66 and
highlights causes and events underlying sources and uses of cash in that format
on pages 35 and 36. For purposes of running its business, the company
manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different format.  

Management uses a free cash
flow measure to evaluate the company s operating results, plan share repurchase
levels, evaluate strategic investments and assess the company s ability and
need to incur and service debt. Free cash flow is not a defined term under U.S.
GAAP and it should not be inferred that the entire free cash flow amount is
available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as
net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing
receivables and net  

49    

capital
expenditures. As discussed on page 24, a key objective of the Global
Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity. Increasing
receivables is the basis for growth in a financing business. Accordingly,
management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating
investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. After
considering Global Financing receivables as an investment, the remaining net
operational cash flow less net capital expenditures is viewed by the company as
free cash flow.  

From the perspective of how
management views cash flow, in 2009, free cash flow was $15.1 billion, an
increase of $0.8 billion compared to 2008. This cash performance was driven
primarily by the growth in net income of $1.1 billion, lower capital spending
of $0.8 billion and higher cash from sales cycle working capital ($1.2
billion), partially offset by higher retirement-related funding ($0.9 billion)
and workforce rebalancing payments ($0.6 billion).  

Over the past five years, the
company generated over $61 billion in free cash flow. During that period, the
company invested $13.8 billion in strategic acquisitions and returned over $63
billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. The amount of
prospective returns to shareholders in the form of dividends and share
repurchases will vary based upon several factors including each year s
operating results, capital expenditure requirements, research and development
investments and acquisitions, as well as the factors discussed below.  

The company s Board of Directors
meets quarterly to consider the dividend payment. The company expects to fund
dividend payments through cash from operations. In the second quarter of 2009,
the Board of Directors increased the company s quarterly common stock dividend from
$0.50 to $0.55 per share.  

The table below represents the
way in which management reviews cash flow as described above.  

($
in billions)  

Events
that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed above
include significant changes in operating results, material changes in
geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation or
future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the
capital markets. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend
on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note O,  Contingencies
and Commitments  on pages 99 and 100. With respect to pension funding, in
2009, the company contributed $1,252 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit
plans, versus $917 million in 2008. As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations
table on page 51, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan
contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $3.6 billion in the
next five years.  

The
2010 contributions are currently expected to be approximately $0.8 billion.
Financial market performance in 2010 could increase the legally mandated minimum
contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent
remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any further
impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future
movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations.  

The Pension Protection act of
2006 was enacted into law in 2006, and, among other things, increases the
funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans beginning after December 31,
2007. No mandatory contribution is required for the U.S. defined benefit plan
in 2010 as of December 31, 2009.  

50    

Contractual Obligations   

($
in millions)  

*                     Represents
future pension contributions that are mandated by local regulations or statute,
all associated with non-U.S. pension plans. See note U,  Retirement-Related
Benefits,  on pages 109 through 121 for additional information on the non-U.S.
plans, investment strategies and expected contributions and for information
regarding the company s unfunded pension plans of $16,819 million at December 31,
2009.  

**              These amounts represent the liability for unrecognized
tax benefits. The company estimates that approximately $1,083 million of the
liability is expected to be settled within the next 12 months. The settlement
period for the noncurrent portion of the income tax liability cannot be
reasonably estimated as the timing of the payments will depend on the progress
of tax examinations with the various tax authorities; however, it is not
expected to be due within the next 12 months.  

Total
contractual obligations are reported in the table above excluding the effects
of time value and therefore, may not equal the amounts reported in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position. Total contractual obligations decreased $10.4
billion from the amount reported in the 2008 Annual Report primarily due to the
paydown of debt and the removal of the associated interest expense obligations.
Long-term debt obligations decreased $6.4 billion and interest expense related
to long-term debt obligations decreased $4.1 billion.  

Purchase obligations include
all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum
quantity that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are
noncancelable, (2) the company would incur a penalty if the agreement was
canceled, or (3) the company must make specified minimum payments even if
it does not take delivery of the contracted products or services (take-or-pay).
If the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire
value of the contract is included in the table above. If the obligation is
cancelable, but the company would incur a penalty if canceled, the dollar
amount of the penalty is included as a purchase obligation. Contracted minimum
amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also included in the table as
they represent the portion of each contract that is a firm commitment.  

In the ordinary course of
business, the company enters into contracts that specify that the company will
purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product, commodity
or service from a supplier or vendor. These contracts are generally entered
into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms. They do not specify
fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and, therefore, the company does
not consider them to be purchase obligations.  

Interest on floating rate debt
obligations is calculated using the effective interest rate at December 31,
2009, plus the interest rate spread associated with that debt, if any.  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   

From
time to time, the company may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements as
defined by the SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67),  Disclosure in
Management s Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate
Contractual Obligations.   

At December 31, 2009, the
company has no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably
likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition,
changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table above for
the company s contractual obligations and note O,  Contingencies and Commitments, 
on pages 99 to 101, for detailed information about the company s
guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements. The company
does not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated
entities or other material off-balance sheet interests or instruments.  

51    

C    ritical Accounting Estimates   

The
application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions
about future events that directly affect its reported financial condition and
operating performance. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in
this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to
its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both
(a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels
of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a
reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the
company s financial condition or operating performance. Senior management has
discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the
Audit Committee of the company s Board of Directors. The company s significant
accounting policies are described in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies, 
on pages 70 to 79.  

A quantitative sensitivity
analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be
reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts
used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to
allow users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and
effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management s
predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that
future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require
regular review and adjustment.  

Pension Assumptions   

The
measurement of the company s benefit obligation to its employees and net
periodic pension cost/(income) requires the use of certain assumptions,
including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected return on
plan assets.  

Changes in the discount rate
assumptions will impact the (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost
components of the net periodic pension cost/(income) calculation (see page 115
for information regarding the discount rate assumptions) and the projected
benefit obligation (PBO). As presented on page 115, the company decreased
the discount rate assumption for the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S.-based
defined benefit plan, by 15 basis points to 5.60 percent on December 31,
2009. This change will increase pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2010 by
an estimated $40 million. If the discount rate assumption for the PPP increased
by 15 basis points on December 31, 2009, pre-tax cost and expense
recognized in 2010 would have decreased by an estimated $41 million. Changes in
the discount rate assumptions will impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact
the company s funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. Each 25 basis
point increase or decrease in the discount rate will cause a corresponding
decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPP s PBO of an estimated $1.2
billion based upon December 31, 2009 data. The PPP s PBO (after the
decrease in discount rate presented on page 115) and plan assets as of December 31,
2009 is presented on page 113.  

The expected long-term return
on plan assets is used in calculating the net periodic pension cost/(income).
See page 115 for information regarding the expected long-term return on
plan assets assumption. The differences between the actual return on plan
assets and expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five
years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension
cost/(income) and also as a component of actuarial gains/losses, which are
recognized over the service lives or life expectancy of the plan participants,
depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based
upon the obligation or the value of plan assets.  

To the extent the outlook for
long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term
return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in
the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption will have an
estimated increase or decrease, respectively, of $252 million on the following
year s pre-tax net periodic pension cost/(income) (based upon the PPP s plan
assets at December 31, 2009 and assuming no contributions are made in
2010).  

The company may voluntarily
make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension
plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less
future company funding into the pension plans than is planned by management.  

Impacts of these types of
changes on the company s defined benefit pension plans in other countries
worldwide will vary depending upon the status of each respective plan.  

Revenue Recognition   

Application
of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and
recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates.
Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may
require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate
accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple element
arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other
significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting
as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered
part of one arrangement.  

52    

Revenue recognition is also
impacted by the company s ability to estimate sales incentives, expected
returns and allowances for uncollectible receivables. The company considers various
factors, including a review of specific transactions, the credit-worthiness of
the customers, historical experience and market and economic conditions when
calculating these provisions and allowances. Estimates are evaluated each
quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates. If these estimates were
changed by 10 percent in 2009, net income would be impacted by $74 million
(excluding Global Financing receivables reserves discussed on page 59).  

Costs to Complete Service Contracts   

The
company enters into numerous service contracts through its GTS and GBS
businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be
impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract,
especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion (POC)
method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC contract
will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the
contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing profitability
analyses of its services contracts in order to determine whether the latest
estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the
future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product
costs and productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a
component of other accrued expenses and liabilities are approximately $37
million and $24 million at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008,
respectively.  

Income Taxes   

The
company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign
jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the
consolidated provision for income taxes.  

During the ordinary course of
business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate
tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax
liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be
due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the company s belief
that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that
certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The
company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all
open audit years based on its assessment of many factors including past
experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates
and assumptions and may involve a series of complex judgments about future
events. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the
company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax
liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in
the period in which such determination is made.  

Significant judgment is also
required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax
assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers
all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results,
estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning
strategies. In the event that the company changes its determination as to the
amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its
valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the
period in which such determination is made.  

To the extent that the
provision for income taxes increases/decreases by 1 percent of income from
continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated income from continuing
operations would have decreased/improved by $181 million in 2009.  

Valuation of Assets   

The
application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use
of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting
for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of
assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the
acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that
are depreciated and amortized from goodwill. Impairment testing for assets,
other than goodwill, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or
group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or
group of assets. The company s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to
be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These
valuations require the use of management s assumptions, which would not reflect
unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.  

Valuation of Goodwill   

The
company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes
in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be
recoverable. The guidance on goodwill impairment requires the company to
perform a two-step impairment test. In the first step, the company compares the
fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. The company determines
the fair value of its reporting units based on the income approach. Under the
income approach, the company calculates the fair value of a reporting unit
based on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the fair value of
the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned  

53    

to
that unit, goodwill is not impaired. If the carrying value of the net assets
assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit,
then the second step of the impairment test is performed in order to determine
the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill. If the carrying value
of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, then the company
records an impairment loss equal to the difference.  

Determining the fair value of a
reporting unit is judgmental in nature and involves the use of significant
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions include revenue
growth rates and operating margins used to calculate projected future cash
flows, discount rates and future economic and market conditions. The company s
estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are
inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of
management s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and
circumstances that may occur.  

The annual goodwill impairment
analysis, which the company performed during the fourth quarter of 2009, did
not result in an impairment charge. Utilizing the balances as of September 30,
2009, the excess of fair value over carrying value for each of the company s
reporting units ranged from approximately $0.4 billion to approximately $74.7
billion. In order to evaluate the sensitivity of the fair value calculations on
the goodwill impairment test, the company applied a hypothetical 10 percent
decrease to the fair values of each reporting unit. This hypothetical 10
percent decrease would result in excess fair value over carrying value ranging
from approximately $0.4 billion to approximately $66.3 billion for each of the
company s reporting units.  

Loss contingencies   

The
company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings.
Quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and
assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim
or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably
estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant
judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the
determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of
uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best
information available at the time. As additional information becomes available,
the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims
and litigation and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates
of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the company s
results of operations and financial position.  

Financing Receivables Reserves   

The
Global Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio at least
quarterly in order to assess collectibility. A description of the methods used
by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included
on pages 78 and 79. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses
that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes
in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular
client or industry segment that represents a concentration in Global Financing s
receivables portfolio.  

To the extent that actual
collectibility differs from management s estimates currently provided for by 10
percent, Global Financing s segment pre-tax income and the company s
consolidated income from continuing operations before income taxes would be
higher or lower by an estimated $54 million (using 2009 data), depending upon
whether the actual collectibility was better or worse, respectively, than the
estimates.  

Residual Value   

Residual
value represents the estimated fair value of equipment under lease as of the
end of the lease. Residual value estimates impact the determination of whether
a lease is classified as operating or capital. Global Financing estimates the
future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the
current market for new and used equipment and obtaining forward-looking product
information such as marketing plans and technological innovations. Residual
value estimates are periodically reviewed and  other than temporary  declines
in estimated future residual values are recognized upon identification.
Anticipated increases in future residual values are not recognized until the
equipment is remarketed. Factors that could cause actual results to materially
differ from the estimates include significant changes in the used-equipment
market brought on by unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any
resulting changes in the useful lives of used equipment.  

To the extent that actual
residual value recovery is lower than management s estimates by 10 percent,
Global Financing s segment pre-tax income and the company s consolidated income
from continuing operations before income taxes would be lower by an estimated
$120 million (using 2009 data). If the actual residual value recovery is higher
than management s estimates, the increase in income will be realized at the end
of lease when the equipment is remarketed.  

Currency Rate Fluctuations   

Changes
in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the
company s results. At December 31, 2009, currency changes resulted in
assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into
more U.S. dollars than at year-end 2008. The company uses financial hedging
instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions
and other foreign currency-based transactions. Further discussion of currency
and hedging appears in note L,  Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92
through 96.  

54    

In 2009, the company s revenue
decreased 7.6 percent as reported and 5.3 percent adjusted for currency. In the
first nine months of 2009, revenue decreased 10.6 percent as reported and 5.3
percent adjusted for currency. This currency impact reversed in the fourth
quarter, as revenue increased 0.8 percent as reported and declined 5.5 percent
adjusted for currency, driven from the company s operations in currencies other
than the U.S. dollar. The company maintains currency hedging programs for cash
planning purposes which mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of
currency impacts on the company s financial results. In addition to the
translation of earnings, the impact of currency changes also may affect the
company s pricing and sourcing actions. For example, the company may procure
components and supplies in multiple functional currencies and sell products and
services in other currencies. The company believes that some of these
currency-based changes in cost impact the price charged to clients. However,
the company estimates that the effect of currency, before taking pricing or
sourcing actions into account, and net of hedging activity, had no more than a
$0.09 impact on earnings per share growth in 2009.  

For non-U.S. subsidiaries and
branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly
inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations.
Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking
prices and contracts to U.S. dollars.  

The company is continuing to
monitor the current economic conditions in Venezuela. In Venezuela, there is an
official currency rate that is fixed by the government, and a parallel market
of currency exchange that enables companies to obtain foreign currency,
including dollars. The parallel rate is variable and may differ significantly
from the official rate. Accounting guidance requires that the translation of a
non-U.S. entity s financial statements into the company s consolidated
financial statements be at the rate applicable to dividend remittances. Through
the first 11 months of 2009, the company used the official rate for translation
of its Venezuela financial statements as this was the rate applicable to prior
dividend remittances. Due to the significant reduction of currency approvals by
the Venezuela government, in December the company determined that the rate
for translation should be changed to the parallel rate at December 31,
2009. This resulted in an immaterial charge to the income statement and a decrease
of IBM stockholders  equity of $93 million. Future results are not expected to
be materially impacted as a result of translation at the parallel rate.  

In addition, due to the fact
that the blended CPI/NCPI three-year cumulative inflation rate in Venezuela has
reached 100 percent, the country will be considered highly inflationary,
consistent with accounting standards, effective January 1, 2010. The
company s operations in Venezuela are not significant (less than 1 percent of
total 2008 and 2009 revenue), therefore, the company does not expect a material
impact from the shift to highly inflationary. On January 8, 2010, a
devaluation of the Venezuelan currency was announced. There will be a
two-tiered official rate, for  essentials  and  non-essentials . This is not
expected to have a material impact to future operating results.  

Market Risk   

In
the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is
routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk
associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and
non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk
include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual
values on leased assets.  

The company regularly assesses
these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect
against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a
result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks.  

The company s debt, in support
of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the company s
operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and
currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a
variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as explained in note L,
 Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96.  

To meet disclosure
requirements, the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the
effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company s
debt and other financial instruments.  

The financial instruments that
are included in the sensitivity analysis comprise all of the company s cash and
cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term and long-term loans,
commercial financing and installment payment receivables, investments,
long-term and short-term debt and all derivative financial instruments. The
company s portfolio of derivative financial instruments generally includes
interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward contracts.  

To perform the sensitivity
analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect
of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates
on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign
currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash
flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market
risk being measured.  

55    

The
discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on
market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31,
2009 and 2008. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or
losses associated with each type of risk.  

Information provided by the
sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair
value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due
to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk
factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained
by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis,
while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those
items are included by definition. Excluded items include short-term and
long-term receivables from sales-type and direct financing leases, forecasted
foreign currency cash flows and the company s net investment in foreign
operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of the
financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not
matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those
instruments are designed to finance or hedge.  

The results of the sensitivity
analysis at December 31, 2009, and December 31, 2008, are as follows:  

Interest Rate Risk   

At
December 31, 2009, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates
with all other variables held constant would result  
  in a decrease in the fair
market value of the company s financial instruments of $274 million as compared
with a decrease of $353 million at December 31, 2008. A 10 percent
increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant
would result in an increase in the fair value of the company s financial
instruments of $251 million as compared to an increase of $327 million at December 31,
2008. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company s
financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of
interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the company s debt
maturities, interest rate profile and amount.  

Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk   

At
December 31, 2009, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign
currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease
in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $609 million as
compared with a decrease of $1,007 million at December 31, 2008. Conversely,
a 10 percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other
variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the
company s financial instruments of $609 million compared with an increase of $1,007
million at December 31, 2008.  

Financing Risks   

See
the  Description of Business  on page 24 for a discussion of the financing
risks associated with the Global Financing business and management s actions to
mitigate such risks.  

Employees and Related Workforce   

As
a globally integrated enterprise, the company operates in over 170 countries
and is continuing to shift its business to the higher value segments of
enterprise computing. The company continually assesses its resource needs with
the objective of balancing its workforce globally to improve the company s
global reach and competitiveness. In 2009, total employees at IBM and its
wholly owned subsidiaries increased slightly compared to the prior year.  

The complementary workforce is
an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary,
part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business
needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.  

56    

Global Financing   

Global
Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as if it were a standalone
entity. Accordingly, the information presented in this section is consistent
with this separate company view.  

In 2009, as the global economy
emerged from a challenging credit environment, the Global Financing business
delivered strong financial results. The Global Financing business remained
focused on its core competencies providing IT financing to the company s
clients and business partners. For the year, Global Financing improved gross
margin by 4.2 points and pre-tax income margin by 6.1 points, while total
revenue declined 8.4 percent. Total pre-tax income of $1,730 million increased
7.0 percent compared to 2008.  

In addition to the overall
health of the economy and its impact on corporate IT budgets, key drivers of
Global Financing s results are interest rates and originations. Interest rates
directly impact Global Financing s business by increasing or decreasing both
financing revenue and the associated borrowing costs. Originations, which
determine the asset base of Global Financing s annuity-like business, are
impacted by IBM s non-Global Financing sales volumes and Global Financing s
participation rates. Participation rates are the propensity of IBM s clients to
finance their purchases through Global Financing in lieu of paying IBM up-front
cash or financing through a third party.  

Results of Operations   

($
in millions)  

*           S  ee
page 61 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity
calculation.  

The
decrease in 2009 revenue, as compared to 2008, was primarily due to:  

A   decline in external revenue of 10.0 percent (7 percent
adjusted for currency), due to decreases in financing revenue (down 11.6
percent to $1,715 million) and in used equipment sales (down 5.2 percent to
$588 million); and  

A   decline in internal revenue of 6.3 percent driven by a
decrease in financing revenue (down 22.0 percent to $580 million), partially
offset by an increase in used equipment sales (up 3.9 percent to $1,194
million).  

The
decrease in external and internal financing revenue was due to lower average
asset balances and lower asset yields.  

Global Financing gross profit
decreased 1.7 percent compared to 2008 due to the lower revenue. Gross margin
increased 4.2 points due to higher margins on financing and used equipment
sales.  

The increase in 2008 revenue,
as compared to 2007, was primarily due to:  

A  n increase in external revenue of 2.3 percent (flat
adjusted for currency), due to growth in financing revenue (up 7.9 percent to
$1,939 million), partially offset by a decrease in used equipment sales (down
12.0 percent to $620 million); and  

Growth in internal revenue of 27.7 percent primarily
driven by an increase in used equipment sales (up 47.2 percent to $1,148
million) and an increase in financing revenue (up 6.0 percent to $744 million).  

The
increase in external and internal financing revenue was due to higher average
asset balances and higher asset yields.  

Global Financing gross profit
increased 18.4 percent in 2008 versus 2007, with gross margin increasing 3.3
points. This was due to higher margins on financing and used equipment sales.  

Global Financing pre-tax income
increased 7.0 percent in 2009 versus 2008, following an increase of 16.7
percent in 2008 versus 2007. The increase in 2009 was primarily driven by decreases
in financing receivables provisions of $86 million and other selling, general
and administrative expenses of $67 million, partially offset by the decrease in
gross profit of $44 million. The increase in 2008 was driven by the increase in
gross profit of $399 million, partially offset by an increase in financing
receivables provisions of $159 million. The decrease in financing receivables
provisions in 2009 was primarily due to lower specific reserve requirements. Overall
allowance for doubtful accounts coverage rate is 2.1 percent, an increase of
0.1 points versus 2008.  

The increase in return on
equity from 2008 to 2009 was driven by higher after-tax income and a lower
average equity balance, while the increase from 2007 to 2008 was primarily due
to higher after-tax income.  

57    

Financial Condition   

Balance Sheet   

($ in millions)  

(a)             Includes
intercompany mark-up, priced on an arms-length basis, on products purchased
from the company s product divisions, which is eliminated in IBM s consolidated
results.  

(b)             E  ntire
amount eliminated for purposes of IBM s consolidated results and therefore does
not appear on page 65.  

(c)              T  hese
assets, along with all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at
the value in the table using Global Financing debt.  

(d)             Global
Financing debt is comprised of intercompany loans and external debt. A portion
of Global Financing debt is in support of the company s internal business, or
related to intercompany mark-up embedded in the Global Financing assets. See
table on page 60.  

Sources and Uses of Funds   

The
primary use of funds in Global Financing is to originate client and commercial
financing assets. Client financing assets for end users consist primarily of
IBM systems, software and services, but also include non-IBM equipment,
software and services to meet IBM clients  total solutions requirements. Client
financing assets are primarily sales-type, direct financing and operating
leases for systems products, as well as loans for systems, software and
services with terms generally from two to seven years. Global Financing s
client loans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These
loans are subjected to additional credit analysis to evaluate the associated
risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks in the
loan agreements which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration
during the life of the obligation. Client financing also includes internal
activity as described on page 24.  

Commercial financing
receivables arise primarily from inventory and accounts receivable financing
for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM products. Payment terms for
inventory financing and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30
to 90 days. These short-term receivables are primarily unsecured and are also
subjected to additional credit analysis in order to evaluate the associated
risk.  

At December 31, 2009,
approximately 98 percent of Global Financing s external financing assets are in
the segment s core competency of technology equipment and solutions financing,
and approximately 59 percent of the external portfolio is with investment grade
clients with no direct exposure to consumers or mortgage assets.  

Originations   

The
following are total external and internal financing originations.  

($
in millions)  

Cash
collections exceeded new financing originations for both client and commercial
financing in 2009 which resulted in a net decline in financing assets from December 31,
2008. The decrease in originations in 2009 from 2008 was primarily due to lower
demand for IT equipment associated with the economic environment. The increase
in originations in 2008 versus 2007 was due to improving external volumes in
both client and commercial financing.  

Cash generated by Global
Financing in 2009 was primarily deployed to pay the intercompany payables and
dividends to IBM.  

58    

G   lobal Financing Receivables and
Allowances   

The
following table presents external financing receivables excluding residual
values and the allowance for doubtful accounts.  

($
in millions)  

Roll Forward
of Financing Receivables Allowance for Doubtful Accounts   

($ in millions)  

*                     R  epresents reserved receivables, net of recoveries, that
were disposed of during the period.  

**              P  rimarily represents translation adjustments.  

The
percentage of global financing receivables reserved increased from 2.0 percent
at December 31, 2008 to 2.1 percent at December 31, 2009 primarily
due to the decline in the gross financing receivables balance from December 31,
2008. Specific reserves increased 7.8 percent from $386 million at December 31,
2008 to $416 million at December 31, 2009. Unallocated reserves decreased
16.6 percent from $144 million at December 31, 2008, to $120 million at December 31,
2009. Global Financing s bad debt expense was an increase of $143 million for
2009, compared to an increase of $229 million for 2008. The year-to-year
decrease was primarily attributed to the decline of required specific reserve
additions.  

Residual Value   

Residual
value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is
dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at
lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for
the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global
Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and
compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio. See note A,  Significant
Accounting Policies,  on page 79 for the company s accounting policy for
residual values.  

Global Financing optimizes the
recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease,
leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with
current clients. Sales of equipment, which are primarily sourced from equipment
returned at the end of a lease, represented 43.7 percent of Global Financing s
revenue in 2009 and 39.7 percent in 2008. The percentage increase was driven
primarily by the decrease in financing revenue. The gross margin on these sales
was 51.3 percent and 50.0 percent in 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase
is primarily driven by a shift in mix toward higher margin internal used
equipment sales.  

The table on page 60
presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual value for sales-type,
direct financing and operating leases at December 31, 2008 and 2009. In
addition, the table presents the residual value as a percentage of the related
original amount financed and a run out of when the unguaranteed residual value
assigned to equipment on leases at December 31, 2009 is expected to be
returned to the company. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a
limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of
the equipment to be returned at end of lease. These third-party guarantees are
included in minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards in
the determination of lease classifications for the covered equipment and
provide protection against risk of loss arising from declines in equipment
values for these assets. The residual value guarantee increases the minimum
lease payments that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease
as a sales-type lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated
with the guarantees were $569 million and $1,083 million for the financing
transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. In 2009, the residual value guarantee program resulted in the
company recognizing approximately $400 million of revenue that would otherwise
have been recognized in future periods as operating lease revenue. If the
company had chosen to not participate in a residual value program in 2009 and
prior years, the 2009 impact would be substantially mitigated by the effect of
prior year asset values being recognized as operating lease revenue in the
current year. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the
scheduled end of lease were $30 million and $56 million for the financing
transactions originated during 2009 and 2008, respectively. The cost of
guarantees was $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and $7
million for the year ended December 31, 2008.  

59    

Unguaranteed Residual Value   

($ in millions)  

Debt   

The
company funds Global Financing through borrowings using a debt-to-equity ratio
target of approximately 7 to 1. The debt used to fund Global Financing assets
is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. The terms of the
intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term and
currency underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm s-length
pricing. Both assets and debt are presented in the Global Financing Balance
sheet on page 58.  

The Global Financing business
provides funding predominantly for the company s external clients but also
provides intercompany financing for the company. Since the company measures
Global Financing as if it were a standalone entity, interest expense relating
to debt supporting Global Financing s external client and internal business is
included in the  Global Financing Results of Operations  on page 57 and in
note V,  Segment Information,  on pages 122 to 126.  

In the company s Consolidated Statement
of Earnings on page 64, however, the external debt-related interest
expense supporting Global Financing s internal financing to the company is
reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense.  

The following table provides
additional information on total company debt. In this table, intercompany
activity includes internal loans and leases at arm s-length pricing in support
of Global Services  long-term contracts and other internal activity. The
company believes these assets should be appropriately leveraged in line with
the overall Global Financing business model.  

($
in millions)  

60    

Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Global
Financing is a segment of the company and therefore, is supported by the
company s overall liquidity position and access to capital markets. Cash
generated by Global Financing was primarily deployed to pay intercompany payables
and dividends to the company in order to maintain an appropriate debt-to-equity
ratio.  

Return on Equity   

($ in millions)  

*                     C  alculated based upon an estimated tax rate principally
based on Global Financing s geographic mix of earnings as IBM s provision for
income taxes is determined on a consolidated basis.  

**              A  verage of the ending equity for Global Financing for
the last five quarters.  

Looking Forward   

Global
Financing s financial position provides flexibility and funding capacity which
enables the company to be well positioned in the current environment. Global
Financing s assets and new financing volumes are primarily IBM products and
services financed to the company s clients and business partners, and
substantially all financing assets are IT related assets which provide a stable
base of business for future growth. Global Financing s offerings are
competitive and available to clients as a result of the company s borrowing
cost and access to the capital markets. Overall, Global Financing s
originations will be dependent upon the demand for IT products and services as
well as client participation rates.  

IBM continues to access both
the short-term commercial paper market and the medium- and long-term debt
markets. A protracted period where IBM could not access the capital markets
would likely lead to a slowdown in originations.  

Interest rates and the overall
economy (including currency fluctuations) will have an effect on both revenue
and gross profit. The company s interest rate risk management policy, however,
combined with the Global Financing pricing strategy should mitigate gross
margin erosion due to changes in interest rates.  

The economy could impact the
credit quality of the Global Financing receivables portfolio and therefore the
level of provision for bad debts. Global Financing will continue to apply
rigorous credit policies in both the origination of new business and the
evaluation of the existing portfolio.  

As discussed on page 59,
Global Financing has historically been able to manage residual value risk both
through insight into the company s product cycles, as well as through its
remarketing business.  

Global Financing has policies
in place to manage each of the key risks involved in financing. These policies,
combined with product and client knowledge, should allow for the prudent
management of the business going forward, even during periods of uncertainty
with respect to the economy.  

61    

Report of Management   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Management Responsibility for Financial Information   

Responsibility
for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in
this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial
statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates
and judgments as required.  

IBM maintains an effective
internal control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational
arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of
authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. An important
element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit program. Our
system also contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to
correct deficiencies as they are identified.  

To assure the effective
administration of internal controls, we carefully select and train our
employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide
appropriate communication channels and foster an environment conducive to the
effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the
company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical
standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These
guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees
throughout the world, and re-emphasized through internal programs to assure
that they are understood and followed.  

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an
independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBM s Consolidated
Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control over
financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
(United States).  

The Audit Committee of the
Board of Directors is composed solely of independent, non-management directors,
and is responsible for recommending to the Board the independent registered
public accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to
stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee meets periodically and privately
with the independent registered public accounting firm, with the company s
internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting,
auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting matters.  

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
Reporting   

Management
is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting of the company. Internal control over financial reporting
is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability
of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America.  

The company s internal control
over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain
to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and
expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

Management conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that
the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31,
2009.  

Samuel J. Palmisano   

Chairman of the Board,  

President and Chief Executive Officer  

February 23, 2010  

Mark Loughridge   

Senior Vice President,  

Chief Financial Officer  

February 23, 2010  

62    

Report of Independent Registered
Public Accounting Firm   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of International Business
Machines Corporation:   

In
our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements appearing on pages 64
through 126 present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31,
2009 and 2008 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also
in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based
on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated
Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission (COSO).The Company s management is responsible for these
financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on
Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on page 62. Our
responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control
over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of
the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management,
and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of
internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding
of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a
material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating
effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  

A company s internal control
over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance
regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial
reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors
of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention
or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  

Because of its inherent
limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to
future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

63    

Consolidated Statement of Earnings   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in
millions except per share amounts)  

*                     Reflects the adoption of the Financial Accounting
Standards Board (FASB) guidance in determining whether instruments granted in
share-based payment transactions are participating securities. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

The
accompanying notes on pages 70 through 126 are an integral part of the
financial statements.  

64    

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions except per
share amounts)  

*                     Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

The
accompanying notes on pages 70 through 126 are an integral part of the
financial statements.  

65    

Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions)  

The
accompanying notes on pages 70 through 126 are an integral part of the
financial statements.  

66    

Consolidated Statement of Changes
in Equity   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions)  

*                          R  eflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

  **                   R  eclassified to conform with 2009 presentation.  

+       Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance
for uncertain tax positions. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on pages 79
to 82 for additional information.   

++     Foreign currency translation adjustments
are presented gross except for any associated hedges which are presented net of
tax.   

The
accompanying notes on pages 70 through 126 are an integral part of the
financial statements.  

67    

Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions)  

*                          R  eflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

**                   R  eclassified to conform with 2009 presentation.  

+                          Foreign currency translation adjustments are presented
gross except for associated hedges which are presented net of tax.  

The
accompanying notes on pages 70 through 126 are an integral part of the
financial statements.  

68    

Consolidated Statement of Changes
in Equity   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions)  

*                          Reflects the adoption of the FASB guidance on
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See note B,  Accounting
Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

  **                   Foreign
currency translation adjustments are presented gross except for any associated
hedges which are presented net of tax.  

  The
accompanying notes on pages 70 through 126 are an integral part of the
financial statements.  

69    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Note A.  
Significant Accounting Policies   

Basis of Presentation    

The
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto of the International
Business Machines Corporation (IBM and/or the company) have been prepared in
accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
of America (GAAP).  

On December 31, 2002, the
company sold its hard disk drive (HDD) business to Hitachi, Ltd. (Hitachi). The
HDD business was accounted for as a discontinued operation and therefore, the HDD
results of operations and cash flows have been removed from the company s
results of continuing operations and cash flows for 2007. There was no activity
in 2008 or 2009.    

The company evaluated
subsequent events through February 23, 2010, which is the date the
financial statements were issued.    

Within the financial tables
presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded
numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the
underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated
where applicable.  

Principles of Consolidation   

The
Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IBM and its
controlled subsidiaries, which are generally majority owned. The accounts of
variable interest entities (VIEs) are included in the Consolidated Financial
Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which the company
does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence
over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity
method and the company s proportionate share of income or loss is recorded in
other (income) and expense. The accounting policy for other investments in
equity securities is described on page 78 within  Marketable Securities. 
Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities are primarily accounted for
using the cost method. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been
eliminated in consolidation.  

Use of Estimates    

The
preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and other comprehensive income/(loss)
that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying
disclosures. These estimates are based on management s best knowledge of
current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake
in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be
reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be
different from these estimates. See pages 52 to 54 for a discussion of the
company s critical accounting estimates.  

Revenue    

The
company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The
company considers revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has
persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price
is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery
does not occur until products have been shipped or services have been provided
to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client, and either client
acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the
company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client
acceptance provisions have been satisfied. The sales price is not considered to
be fixed or determinable until all contingencies related to the sale have been
resolved.    

The company recognizes revenue
on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to
as  resellers ) when the reseller has economic substance apart from the
company, credit risk, title and risk of loss to the inventory, the fee to the
company is not contingent upon resale or payment by the end user, the company
has no further obligations related to bringing about resale or delivery and all
other revenue recognition criteria have been met.    

The company reduces revenue for
estimated client returns, stock rotation, price protection, rebates and other
similar allowances. (See Schedule II,  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves 
included in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K). Revenue is
recognized only if these estimates can be reasonably and reliably determined.
The company bases its estimates on historical results taking into consideration
the type of client, the type of transaction and the specifics of each
arrangement. Payments made under cooperative marketing programs are recognized
as an expense only if the company receives from the client an identifiable
benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be
reasonably and reliably estimated. If the company does not receive an
identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair
value can be reasonably estimated, such payments are recorded as a reduction of
revenue.    

Revenue from sales of
third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the
company is acting as an agent between the client and vendor and gross when the
company is a principal to the transaction. Several factors are considered to
determine whether the company is an agent or principal, most notably whether
the company is the primary obligor to the client, or has inventory risk.
Consideration is also given to whether the company adds meaningful value to the
vendor s product or service, was involved in the selection of the vendor s
product or service, has latitude in establishing the sales price or has credit
risk.  

70    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The company reports revenue net
of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are
imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In
addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following are the specific
revenue recognition policies for multiple-element arrangements and for each
major category of revenue.  

Multiple-Element Arrangements    

The
company enters into multiple-element revenue arrangements, which may include
any combination of services, software, hardware and/or financing. To the extent
that a deliverable in a multiple-element arrangement is subject to specific
guidance, such as, leased hardware which is subject to specific leasing
guidance or software which is subject to specific software revenue recognition
guidance (see  Software  on page 72) on whether and/or how to separate
multiple deliverable arrangements into separate units of accounting
(separability) and how to allocate the arrangement consideration among those
separate units of accounting (allocation), that deliverable is accounted for in
accordance with such specific guidance. For all other deliverables in
multiple-element arrangements, the guidance below is applied to determine
separability and allocation. A multiple-element arrangement is separated into
more than one unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met:  

T  he delivered item(s) has value to the client on a
stand-alone basis;  

T  here is objective and reliable evidence of the fair
value of the undelivered item(s); and  

I  f the arrangement includes a general right of return
relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered
item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the
company.  

If
these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of
accounting which would result in revenue being recognized on a straight-line
basis or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when
the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each
element and there is objective and reliable evidence of fair value for all
units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is
allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative
fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there is objective and
reliable evidence of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such
evidence for the delivered item(s). In those cases, the residual method is used
to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the
amount of consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the
total arrangement consideration less the aggregate fair value of the
undelivered item(s). The revenue policies described below are then applied to
each unit of accounting, as applicable.  

Services    

The
company s primary services offerings include information technology (IT)
datacenter and business process outsourcing, application management services,
consulting and systems integration, technology infrastructure and system
maintenance, Web hosting and the design and development of complex IT systems
to a client s specifications (design and build). These services are provided on
a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per
measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year
to over 10 years.    

Revenue from IT datacenter and
business process outsourcing contracts is recognized in the period the services
are provided using either an objective measure of output or a straight-line
basis over the term of the contract. Under the output method, the amount of
revenue recognized is based on the services delivered in the period.    

Revenue from application
management services, technology infrastructure and system maintenance and Web
hosting contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the
contracts. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is recognized as labor
hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue related to
extended warranty and product maintenance contracts is recognized on a
straight-line basis over the delivery period. 

Revenue from fixed-price design
and build contracts is recognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method.
Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred
to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the
contract. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of
revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the
estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in
estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in income in the
period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known
by management.    

The company performs ongoing
profitability analyses of its services contracts accounted for under the POC
method in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenue, costs and
profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the
contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of
the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC method service contracts,
losses are recorded as incurred.  

In some services contracts, the
company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the
services. Deferred income of $7,066 million and $6,403 million at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively, is included in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position. The year-to-year increase was driven by growth in the Global
Services business and the impacts of currency. In other services contracts, the
company performs the services prior to billing the client. Unbilled accounts
receivable of $2,020 million and $2,090 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively, are included in notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position.  

71    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Billings
usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in
accordance with specific contractual provisions. Unbilled receivables are
expected to be billed within four months.  

Hardware    

Revenue
from hardware sales and sales-type leases is recognized when risk of loss has
transferred to the client and there are no unfulfilled company obligations that
affect the client s final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard
warranties and remaining obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory
are accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals
and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of
the rental or lease.  

Software    

Revenue
from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the
inception of the license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been
met. Revenue from term (recurring license charge) license software is
recognized on a subscription basis over the period that the client is entitled
to use the license. Revenue from subscription and support, which includes
unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis and technical support, is
recognized on a straight-line basis over the period such items are delivered.
In multiple-element revenue arrangements that include software that is more
than incidental to the products or services as a whole (software
multiple-element arrangements), software and software-related elements are
accounted for in accordance with guidance on software revenue recognition.
Software-related elements include software products and services, as well as
any non-software deliverable for which a software deliverable is essential to
its functionality.  

A software multiple-element
arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the
following criteria are met:  

The functionality of the delivered element(s) is
not dependent on the undelivered element(s);  

There is vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of
fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of fair value is based on the
price charged when the deliverable is sold separately by the company on a
regular basis and not as part of the multiple-element arrangement; and  

Delivery of the delivered element(s) represents
the culmination of the earnings process for that element(s).  

If
any one of these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one
unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized on a
straight-line basis or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria
are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria
are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair value for all units of
accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the
separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative VSOE of fair value.
There may be cases, however,  
  in which there is VSOE of
fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the
delivered item(s). In these cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement
consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated
to the delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less
the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements.  

Financing   

Financing
income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is
recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating
lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  

Services Costs    

Recurring
operating costs for services contracts, including costs related to bid and
proposal activities, are recognized as incurred. For fixed-price design and
build contracts, the costs of external hardware and software accounted for
under the POC method are deferred and recognized based on the labor costs
incurred to date, as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill
the contract. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial
phases of outsourcing contracts are deferred and subsequently amortized. These
costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the installation of
systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the contract.
Additionally, fixed assets associated with outsourcing contracts are
capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful
life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation
period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term.
Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in
outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as
a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the
term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the
recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is
done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a
contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash
flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, a loss is
recognized.    

Deferred services transition
and setup costs were $2,432 million and $2,023 million at December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008, respectively. The primary driver of the increase was the continued
growth of the Global Services business. Amortization expense of deferred
services transition and setup costs is estimated at December 31, 2009 to be
$689 million in 2010, $562 million in 2011, $464 million in 2012, $430 million
in 2013 and $287 million thereafter.    

Deferred amounts paid to
clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing
arrangements were $72 million and $119 million at December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts paid to   

72    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

clients
in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as an offset of
revenue and is estimated at December 31, 2009 to be $39 million in 2010, $23
million in 2011, $7 million in 2012, $2 million in 2013 and $1 million
thereafter.  

In situations in which an
outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the
client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts
receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets
utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred
by the company to transition the services.  

Software Costs    

Costs
that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed programs
are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense;
costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological
feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset.
Capitalized amounts are amortized using the straight-line method, which is
applied over periods ranging up to three years. The company performs periodic
reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future
revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software
cost as incurred.    

The company capitalizes certain
costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal-use
computer software, which includes software coding, installation, testing and
certain data conversions. These capitalized costs are amortized on a
straight-line basis over two years and are recorded in selling, general and
administrative expense. See note J,  Intangible Assets Including Goodwill,  on pages 89
to 90.  

Product Warranties    

The
company offers warranties for its hardware products that range up to three
years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs for
warranty terms standard to the deliverable are recognized when revenue is
recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs
standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and
applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty.
Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the
current period are charged to cost of revenue. The warranty accrual is reviewed
quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on
the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period.
Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from
estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including
extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred.    

Revenue from extended warranty
contracts, for which the company is obligated to perform, is recorded as
deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the
delivery period.  

Changes in the company s
deferred income for extended warranty contracts and warranty liability for
standard warranties, which are included in other accrued expenses and
liabilities and other liabilities on the Consolidated Statement of Financial
Position, are presented in the following tables:  

Standard Warranty Liability   

($
in millions)  

Extended Warranty Liability   

($
in millions)  

*  Other consists primarily of foreign currency
translation adjustments.  

Shipping and Handling    

Costs
related to shipping and handling are recognized as incurred and included in
cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Expense and Other Income    

Selling, General and Administrative    

Selling,
general and administrative (SG A) expense is charged to income as incurred.
Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as
selling expense and include such items as compensation, advertising, sales
commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items
as compensation, office supplies, non-income taxes, insurance and office
rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other
operating items such as a provision for doubtful accounts, workforce accruals
for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing
course of business, acquisition costs related to business combinations,
amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental remediation costs.  

73    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Advertising and Promotional Expense    

The
company expenses advertising and promotional costs when incurred. Cooperative
advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and
promotional expense in the period the related advertising and promotional
expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media,
agency and promotional expense, was $1,252 million, $1,259 million and $1,242
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and is recorded in SG A expense
in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Research, Development and Engineering    

Research,
development and engineering (RD E) costs are expensed as incurred. Software
costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological
feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. See  Software
Costs  on page 73.  

Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income    

The
company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual property (IP)
including internally developed patents, trade secrets and technological
know-how. Certain transfers of IP to third parties are licensing/royalty-based
and other transfers are transaction-based sales and other transfers. Licensing/royalty-based
fees involve transfers in which the company earns the income over time, or the
amount of income is not fixed or determinable until the licensee sells future
related products (i.e., variable royalty, based upon licensee s revenue). Sales
and other transfers typically include transfers of IP whereby the company has
fulfilled its obligations and the fee received is fixed or determinable at the
transfer date. The company also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of
patents, and income from these arrangements is recorded only to the extent cash
is received. Furthermore, the company earns income from certain custom
development projects for strategic technology partners and specific clients.
The company records the income from these projects when the fee is realized or
realizable and earned, is not refundable and is not dependent upon the success
of the project.  

Other (Income) and Expense    

Other
(income) and expense includes interest income (other than from Global Financing
external business transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative instruments,
gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and losses from
certain real estate transactions, foreign currency transaction gains and losses,
gains and losses from the sale of businesses and amounts related to accretion
of asset retirement obligations.  

Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including
Goodwill    

The
company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and
accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any
noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are recorded at their acquisition date
fair values.      Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price
over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to
identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are
the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the
acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as an identifiable
intangible asset. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized
over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in
cost and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in selling,
general and administrative expense. See note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures,  on
pages 82 to 86 and note J,  Intangible Assets Including Goodwill,  on pages 89
to 90, for additional information. Acquisition-related costs, including
advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed in the
periods in which the costs are incurred. The results of operations of acquired
businesses are included in the consolidated financial statements from the
acquisition date.  

Impairment    

Long-lived
assets, other than goodwill, are tested for impairment based on undiscounted
cash flows and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either
discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill is tested annually, in the
fourth quarter, for impairment, or sooner when circumstances indicate an impairment
may exist, using a fair-value approach at the reporting unit level. A reporting
unit is the operating segment, or a business, which is one level below that
operating segment (the  component  level) if discrete financial information is
prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the segment level. Components
are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic
characteristics.  

Depreciation and Amortization    

Plant,
rental machines and other property are carried at cost and depreciated over
their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated
useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50
years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant,
laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 20 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to
5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their
estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years.    

Capitalized software costs
incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been established are
amortized over periods ranging up to 3 years. Capitalized costs for
internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods up to
2 years. (See  Software Costs  on page 73 for additional information).
Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between 2 and 7 years.  

74    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES
CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Environmental    

The
cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in
nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it
is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be
reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known
environmental liabilities. The company s maximum exposure for all environmental
liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental
liabilities that are not probable or estimable.  

Asset Retirement Obligations    

Asset
retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the
retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at
fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing
the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability.
Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of
the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records
period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of
time in interest expense and revisions to either the timing or the amount of
the original expected cash flows to the related assets.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit
Plans    

The
funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans and nonpension
postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the
benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit
pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO),
which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid
upon retirement based on estimated future compensation levels. For the
nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial
present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services
already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market
value of cumulative company and participant contributions made to an
irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are
invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan
assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a
prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit
obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded
as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this
excess.    

The current portion of the
retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the
actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the
fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation is
recorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position.    

Net periodic pension and
nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return
on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and
(gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of other comprehensive
income/(loss) and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in accumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss). Service cost represents the actuarial
present value of participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost
represents the time value of money cost associated with the passage of time.
Certain events, such as changes in employee base, plan amendments and changes
in actuarial assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the
corresponding change in other comprehensive income/(loss). The result of these
events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the
service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan,
provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit
obligation or the value of plan assets. Net periodic cost/(income) is recorded
in cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based
on the employees  respective function.  

(Gains)/losses and prior
service costs/(credits) not recognized as a component of net periodic
cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise are
recognized as a component of other comprehensive  
i  ncome/(loss) in the Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity, net of tax. Those (gains)/losses and prior
service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as a component of net
periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions
of applicable accounting guidance. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of
differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes
in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of
benefit improvements attributable to prior service granted in plan
amendments.    

The measurement of benefit
obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is based on estimates and
assumptions approved by the company s management. These valuations reflect the
terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as
compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions,
including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of
compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates.  

Defined Contribution Plans    

The
company records expense for defined contribution plans for the company s
contribution when the employee renders service to the company, essentially
coinciding with the cash contributions to the plans. The expense is recorded in
cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on
the employees  respective function.  

75    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Stock-Based Compensation   

Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based
awards granted to employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost
at grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes
the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the
employee requisite service period. The company estimates the fair value of
stock options using a Black-Scholes valuation model. The cost is recorded in
cost, SG A, and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on
the employees  respective function.  

The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions
on the company s income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost
recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will
receive a deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for
financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the
income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital (if the tax
deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of
Earnings (if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional
paid-in capital exists from previous awards).  

See note T,  Stock-Based Compensation  on pages 105 to 109 for
additional information.  

Income Taxes   

Income
tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income
taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and
liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the
amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are
measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are
recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely
than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management
considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating
results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax
planning strategies. When the company changes its determination as to the
amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is
adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in
which such determination is made.  

The company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the company s
belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that
certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. Benefits
from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that is
greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The current
portion of tax liabilities is included in taxes and the noncurrent portion of
tax liabilities is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position. To the extent that new information becomes available
which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of
existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax
expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and
penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments
are included in income tax expense.  

Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts   

Assets
and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency
are translated to United States (U.S.) dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation
adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in
the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. Income and expense items are
translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.  

Inventories, plant, rental machines and other property net and other
non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that
operate in U.S. dollars are translated at the approximate exchange rates
prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other
assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are
translated at year-end exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss
recognized in other (income) and expense. Cost of sales and depreciation are
translated at historical exchange rates. All other income and expense items are
translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.
These translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in
which exchange rates change.  

Derivatives   

All
derivatives are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position
at fair value and are reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets, investments
and sundry assets, other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities.
Classification of each derivative as current or noncurrent is based upon
whether the maturity of the instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To
qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the instruments be
effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. For
instruments that hedge cash flows, hedge effectiveness criteria also require
that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments
that meet established accounting criteria are formally designated as hedges. These
criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly effective at
offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both
at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of
assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally
documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and
measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated
hedge period.   

Where the company applies hedge accounting, the company designates each
derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value of a recognized financial
asset or liability or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge); (2) the
variability of anticipated cash flows of a forecasted transaction or the cash
flows to be received or paid related to a recognized financial asset or
liability (cash flow hedge); or (3) a hedge of a long-term investment   

76    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

(net
investment hedge) in a foreign operation. In addition, the company may enter
into derivative contracts that economically hedge certain of its risks, even
though hedge accounting does not apply or the company elects not to apply hedge
accounting. In these cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in
which changes in the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized
currently in net income, act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value
of the underlying hedged item(s).  

Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair
value hedge, along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying
hedged exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest
rate risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to interest
expense and cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For
hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or
liabilities, derivative fair value adjustments are recognized in other (income)
and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair
value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net
of applicable taxes, in accumulated other comprehensive income/ (loss), a
component of equity. When net income is affected by the variability of the
underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from
the derivative that is deferred in equity is released to net income and
reported in interest expense, cost, SG A expense or other (income) and
expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the
underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging
derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of
changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative
financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as
foreign currency translation adjustments, net of applicable taxes, in
accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in the Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity. Changes in the fair value of the portion of a net investment
hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment are recorded in
interest expense.  

When the underlying hedged item ceases to exist, all changes in the fair
value of the derivative are included in net income each period until the
instrument matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged
asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except
as required under other relevant accounting standards. Derivatives that are not
designated as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that
do not effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged
item throughout the designated hedge period (collectively,  ineffectiveness ), are
recorded in net income each period and are reported in other (income) and
expense.  

The company reports cash flows arising from derivative financial
instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges consistent with the
classification of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that these
derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with
derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges are classified in cash
flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash
flows from derivatives designated as net investment hedges and derivatives that
do not qualify as hedges are reported in investing activities. For currency
swaps designated as hedges of foreign currency denominated debt (included in
the company s debt risk management program as addressed in note L,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96), cash flows directly
associated with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are
reported in payments to settle debt in the cash flow from financing activities
section of the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

Financial Instruments   

In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the company
uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions
and risks existing at each balance sheet date. Refer to note E,  Financial
Instruments (Excluding Derivatives),  on pages 87 and 88 for further
information. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general
approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized.  

Fair Value
Measurement   

Exit
prices are used to measure assets and liabilities that fall within the scope of
the fair value measurements guidance. Under this guidance, the company is
required to classify certain assets and liabilities based on the following fair
value hierarchy:  

Level 1 Quoted prices in
active markets that are unadjusted and accessible at the measurement date for
identical, unrestricted assets or liabilities;  

                         Level 2 Quoted prices for
identical assets and liabilities in markets that are not active, quoted prices
for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or financial instruments
for which significant inputs are observable, either directly or indirectly; and  

                         Level 3   Prices or
valuations that require inputs that are both significant to the fair value
measurement and unobservable.  

This guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is
available without undue cost and effort.  

When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices to measure
the fair value and classifies such items within Level 1. If quoted market
prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models
that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such
as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated
models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that
is significant to the valuation.  

The determination of fair value considers various factors including
interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments.
For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow
analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.
In the event of another-than -temporary impairment of a nonpublic equity method
investment, the company uses the net asset  

77    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

value of its investment in the investee adjusted using discounted cash
flows for the company s estimate of the price that it would receive to sell the
investment to a market participant that would consider all factors that would
impact the investment s fair value.   

In determining the fair value of financial instruments, the company
considers certain market valuation adjustments to the  base valuations  calculated
using the methodologies described below for several parameters that market
participants would consider in determining fair value.  

Counterparty credit risk
adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the
actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap
market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument.  

                         Credit risk adjustments are
applied to reflect the company s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities
measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in
developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company s
own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market.  

Certain
assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets include
equity method investments that are recognized at fair value at the end of the
period to the extent that they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.
Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be
subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include public
cost method investments that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired.  

Cash Equivalents   

All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at
the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents.  

Marketable Securities   

Debt
securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to
be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt
securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and
alliance equity securities are included in investments and sundry assets. Debt
and marketable equity securities are considered available for sale and are
reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable
taxes, recorded in other comprehensive income/(loss), a component of equity. The
realized gains and losses for available for sale securities are included in
other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Realized
gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method.  

In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value
has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and extent to which, the
fair value of the investment is below its cost, the financial condition and
near-term prospects of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; and
the company s intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for
an anticipated recovery in fair value. Other-than-temporary declines in fair
value from amortized cost for available for sale equity and debt securities
that the company intends to sell or would more-likely-than-not be required to
sell before the expected recovery of the amortized cost basis are charged to
other (income) and expense in the period in which the loss occurs. For debt
securities that the company has no intent to sell and believes that it
more-likely-than-not will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the
credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in other (income) and
expense, while the remaining loss is recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss).
The credit loss component recognized in other (income) and expense is
identified as the amount of the principal cash flows not expected to be
received over the remaining term of the debt security as projected using the
company s cash flow projections.  

Inventories   

Raw
materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of
average cost or market. Cash flows related to the sale of inventories are
reflected in net cash from operating activities from continuing operations in
the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  

Allowance for Uncollectible Receivables   

Trade   

An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a
combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known
troubled accounts.  

Financing   

Financing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases
and loans. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate both its
specific and its unallocated reserves, which are applied consistently to its
different portfolios are as follows:  

SPECIFIC    The company reviews all financing receivables
considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an
analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as
financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, current
market-implied credit analysis, as well as the current economic environment, collateral
net of repossession cost and prior collection history. For loans that are
collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the
collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company
determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates a
recommended estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For
those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific
reserve.  

UNALLOCATED        The company records an
unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its
different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This
reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, asset
characteristics and loss history.  

78    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Receivable losses are charged against the allowance when management
believes the uncollectibility of the receivable is confirmed. Subsequent
recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance.  

Certain receivables for which the company recorded specific reserves may
also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets are those receivables
(impaired loans or non-performing leases) with specific reserves and other
accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all
amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income
recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first
applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of
principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables
may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in
client circumstances.  

Estimated Residual Values of Lease Assets   

The
recorded residual values of the company s lease assets are estimated at the
inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end
of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of
its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future
residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing
efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are
considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon
identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual-value estimate.
For sales-type and direct financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded
net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income in the
period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned
income to reduce future-period financing income.  

Common Stock   

Common
stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the
company s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using
the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and
recorded using a weighted-average basis.  

Earnings Per Share of Common Stock   

Basic
earnings per share of common stock is computed by dividing net income by the
weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted
earnings per share of common stock is computed on the basis of the
weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive
potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock
method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options, stock
awards and convertible notes. See note R,  Earnings Per Share of Common Stock, 
on page 104 for additional information.  

Note B.   

   Accounting Changes   

New Standards to be Implemented   

In
January 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
additional disclosure requirements for fair value measurements. According to
the guidance, the fair value hierarchy disclosures are to be further disaggregated
by class of assets and liabilities. A class is often a subset of assets or
liabilities within a line item in the statement of financial position. In
addition, significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2 of the fair value
hierarchy will be required to be disclosed. These additional requirements are
effective January 1, 2010 for quarterly and annual reporting. These
amendments will not have an impact on the consolidated financial results as
this guidance relates only to additional disclosures. In addition, the guidance
requires more detailed disclosures of the changes in Level 3 instruments. These
changes will be effective January 1, 2011 and are not expected to have a
material impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued amended revenue recognition
guidance for arrangements with multiple deliverables. The new guidance
eliminates the residual method of revenue recognition and allows the use of
management s best estimate of selling price for individual elements of an
arrangement when vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE), vendor objective
evidence (VOE) or third-party evidence (TPE) is unavailable. In accordance with
the guidance, the company has elected to early adopt its provisions as of January 1,
2010 on a prospective basis for all new or materially modified arrangements
entered into on or after that date. The company does not expect a material
impact on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In October 2009, the FASB issued guidance which amends the scope of
existing software revenue recognition accounting. Tangible products containing
software components and non-software components that function together to
deliver the product s essential functionality would be scoped out of the
accounting guidance on software and accounted for based on other appropriate
revenue recognition guidance. This guidance must be adopted in the same period
that the company adopts the amended accounting for arrangements with multiple
deliverables described in the preceding paragraph. Therefore, the company will
also early adopt this guidance as of January 1, 2010 on a prospective
basis for all new or materially modified arrangements entered into on or after
that date. The company does not expect a material impact on the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

In June 2009, the FASB issued amendments to the accounting rules for
variable interest entities (VIEs) and for transfers of financial assets. The
new guidance for VIEs eliminates the quantitative approach previously required
for determining the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity and
requires ongoing qualitative reassessments of whether an enterprise is the
primary beneficiary. In addition, qualifying special purpose entities (QSPEs)  

79    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

are
no longer exempt from consolidation under the amended guidance. The amendments
also limit the circumstances in which a financial asset, or a portion of a
financial asset, should be derecognized when the transferor has not transferred
the entire original financial asset to an entity that is not consolidated with
the transferor in the financial statements being presented, and/or when the
transferor has continuing involvement with the transferred financial asset. The
company will adopt these amendments for interim and annual reporting periods
beginning on January 1, 2010. The company does not expect the adoption of
these amendments to have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

Standards Implemented   

In
September 2009, the FASB issued amended guidance concerning fair value
measurements of investments in certain entities that calculate net asset value
per share (or its equivalent). If fair value is not readily determinable, the
amended guidance permits, as a practical expedient, a reporting entity to
measure the fair value of an investment using the net asset value per share (or
its equivalent) provided by the investee without further adjustment. In
accordance with the guidance, the company adopted these amendments for the year
ended December 31, 2009. There was no material impact on the Consolidated
Financial Statements.  

On July 1, 2009, the FASB issued the FASB Accounting Standards
Codification (the Codification). The Codification became the single source of
authoritative nongovernmental U.S. GAAP, superseding existing FASB, American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA), Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
and related literature. The Codification eliminates the previous U.S. GAAP
hierarchy and establishes one level of authoritative GAAP. All other literature
is considered non-authoritative. The Codification was effective for interim and
annual periods ending after September 15, 2009. The company adopted the
Codification for the quarter ending September 30, 2009. There was no
impact to the consolidated financial results.  

In May 2009, the FASB issued guidelines on subsequent event
accounting which sets forth: 1) the period after the balance sheet date during
which management of a reporting entity should evaluate events or transactions
that may occur for potential recognition or disclosure in the financial
statements; 2) the circumstances under which an entity should recognize events
or transactions occurring after the balance sheet date in its financial
statements; and 3) the disclosures that an entity should make about events or
transactions that occurred after the balance sheet date. These guidelines were
effective for interim and annual periods ending after June 15, 2009, and
the company adopted them in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. There was no
impact on the consolidated financial results.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued additional requirements regarding
interim disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments which were
previously only disclosed on an annual basis. Entities are now required to
disclose the fair value of financial instruments which are not recorded at fair
value in the financial statements in both interim and annual financial
statements. The new requirements were effective for interim and annual periods
ending after June 15, 2009 on a prospective basis. The company adopted
these requirements in the quarter ended June 30, 2009. There was no impact
on the consolidated financial results as this relates only to additional
disclosures in the quarterly financial statements. See note E,  Financial
Instruments (Excluding Derivatives) , on pages 87 and 88.  

On January 1, 2009, the company adopted the revised FASB guidance
regarding business combinations which was required to be applied to business
combinations on a prospective basis. The revised guidance requires that the
acquisition method of accounting be applied to a broader set of business
combinations, amends the definition of a business combination, provides a
definition of a business, requires an acquirer to recognize an acquired
business at its fair value at the acquisition date and requires the assets and
liabilities assumed in a business combination to be measured and recognized at
their fair values as of the acquisition date (with limited exceptions). There
was no impact upon adoption and the effects of this guidance will depend on the
nature and significance of business combinations occurring after the effective
date. See note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures , on pages 82 to 86 for
further information regarding 2009 business combinations.  

In April 2009, the FASB issued an amendment to the revised business
combination guidance regarding the accounting for assets acquired and
liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise from contingencies. The
requirements of this amended guidance carry forward without significant
revision the guidance on contingencies which existed prior to January 1, 2009.
Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination that arise
from contingencies are recognized at fair value if fair value can be reasonably
estimated. If fair value cannot be reasonably estimated, the asset or liability
would generally be recognized in accordance with the Accounting Standards
Codification (ASC) Topic 450 on contingencies. There was no impact upon
adoption. See note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures , on pages 82 to 86 for
further information regarding 2009 business combinations.  

In April 2008, the FASB issued new requirements regarding the
determination of the useful lives of intangible assets. In developing
assumptions about renewal or extension options used to determine the useful
life of an intangible asset, an entity needs to consider its own historical
experience adjusted for entity-specific factors. In the absence of that
experience, an entity shall consider the assumptions that market participants
would use about renewal or extension options. The new requirements apply to
intangible assets acquired after January 1, 2009. The adoption of these
new rules did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

80    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

In December 2007, the FASB issued new guidance on non-controlling
interests in consolidated financial statements. This guidance requires that the
noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary be accounted for and
reported as equity, provides revised guidance on the treatment of net income
and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest and changes in ownership
interests in a subsidiary and requires additional disclosures that identify and
distinguish between the interests of the controlling and noncontrolling owners.
Pursuant to the transition provisions, the company adopted this new guidance on
January 1, 2009 via retrospective application of the presentation and
disclosure requirements. Noncontrolling interests of $119 million at January 1,
2009, $145 million at January 1, 2008 and $129 million at January 1, 2007
were reclassified from the Liabilities section to the Equity section in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

Noncontrolling interest amounts in income of $5 million, $14 million and
$17 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2009, December 31,
2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively, are not presented separately in
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings due to immateriality, but are reflected
within the other (income) and expense line item. Additionally, changes to
noncontrolling interests in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
were $(1) million, $(26) million and $16 million for the years ended December 31,
2009, December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. A
separate roll forward is not presented due to immateriality.  

In March 2008, the FASB issued new disclosure requirements
regarding derivative instruments and hedging activities. Entities must now
provide enhanced disclosures on an interim and annual basis regarding how and
why the entity uses derivatives; how derivatives and related hedged items are
accounted for, and how derivatives and related hedged items affect the entity s
financial position, financial results and cash flow. Pursuant to the transition
provisions, the company adopted these new requirements on January 1, 2009.
The required disclosures are presented in note L,  Derivatives and Hedging
Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96 on a prospective basis. These new
requirements did not impact the consolidated financial results as they relate
only to additional disclosures.  

In June 2008, the FASB issued guidance in determining whether
instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating
securities. The guidance became effective on January 1, 2009 via
retrospective application. According to the new guidance, unvested share-based
payment awards that contain non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend
equivalents are participating securities and, therefore, are included in
computing earnings per share (EPS) pursuant to the two-class method. The
two-class method determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating
securities according to dividends or dividend equivalents and their respective
participation rights in undistributed earnings. Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) granted
to employees prior to December 31, 2007 are considered participating
securities as they receive non-forfeitable dividend equivalents at the same
rate as common stock. RSUs granted after December 31, 2007 do not receive
dividend equivalents and are not considered participating securities. The
company retrospectively adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009. The
impact of adoption decreased previously reported diluted EPS by $0.04 for the
year ended December 31, 2008 and by $0.03 for the year ended December 31,
2007. Previously reported basic EPS decreased by $0.05 for the year ended December 31,
2008 and by $0.05 for the year ended December 31, 2007.  

In November 2008, the FASB issued guidance on accounting for
defensive intangible assets. A defensive intangible asset is an asset acquired
in a business combination or in an asset acquisition that an entity does not
intend to actively use. According to the guidance, defensive intangible assets
are considered to be a separate unit of account and valued based on their
highest and best use from the perspective of an external market participant. The
company adopted this guidance on January 1, 2009, and there was no impact
upon adoption.  

In December 2008, the FASB issued guidance regarding employers  disclosures
about postretirement benefit plan assets. This guidance requires more detailed
disclosures about the fair value measurements of employers  plan assets
including: (a) investment policies and strategies; (b) major
categories of plan assets; (c) information about valuation techniques and
inputs to those techniques, including the fair value hierarchy classifications
(as defined in the Codification) of the major categories of plan assets; (d) the
effects of fair value measurements using significant unobservable inputs (Level
3) on changes in plan assets; and (e) significant concentrations of risk
within plan assets. The disclosures are required annually and have been
included in the December 31, 2009 consolidated financial statements. See
note U  Retirement-Related Benefits  on pages 109 through 121 for further
information. There was no impact on the consolidated financial results as the
guidance relates only to additional disclosures.  

In September 2006, the FASB issued guidance that defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about
fair value measurements; however, it does not require any new fair value
measurements. This guidance became effective January 1, 2008 and was
applied prospectively to fair value measurements and disclosures of (a) financial
assets and financial liabilities and (b) nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities which are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the
financial statements on a recurring basis (at least annually). The application
of this guidance did not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.
See note D,  Fair Value,  on pages 86 and 87 for additional information.  

In February 2008, the FASB issued two amendments to the fair value
guidance described above. The first amendment removed leasing from the scope of
the fair value guidance. The second amendment delayed the effective date
regarding fair value measurements and disclosures of nonfinancial assets and
nonfinancial liabilities, except those that are recognized or disclosed at fair
value in the financial statements on a recurring  

81    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

basis (at least annually), to January 1, 2009. The application of
these amendments did not have a material impact on the Consolidated Financial
Statements.  

In February 2007, the FASB issued guidance that permits entities to
measure eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments
at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not
permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other generally accepted
accounting principles. The fair value measurement election is irrevocable and
subsequent changes in fair value must be recorded in earnings. The company
adopted this guidance as of January 1, 2008 but has not applied the fair
value option to any eligible assets or liabilities. Thus, the adoption of this
guidance did not affect the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

In the first quarter of 2007, the company adopted the guidance on
accounting for separately recognized servicing assets and servicing
liabilities. Separately recognized servicing assets and servicing liabilities
must be initially measured at fair value, if practicable. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the company may use either the amortization method or the fair
value measurement method to account for servicing assets and servicing
liabilities within the scope of this Statement. The adoption of this guidance
did not have a material effect on the Consolidated Financial Statements.  

On January 1, 2007, the company adopted the guidance on the
accounting and reporting of uncertainties in income tax law. The guidance
prescribes a comprehensive model for the financial statement recognition, measurement,
presentation and disclosure of uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be
taken in income tax returns. See note P  Taxes , on pages 101 to 103 for
further information. The cumulative effect of adopting this guidance was a
decrease in tax reserves and an increase of $117 million to the January 1,
2007 retained earnings balance.  

Note C.    

   Acquisitions/Divestitures   

Acquisitions   

2009   

In 2009, the company completed six acquisitions at an aggregate cost of
$1,471 million. The SPSS, Inc. acquisition is shown separately given its
significant purchase price.  

SPSS, INC. (SPSS)    On October 2, 2009, the
company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of SPSS for cash
consideration of $1,177 million. SPSS is a leading global provider of predictive
analytics software and solutions and this acquisition will strengthen the
company s business analytics and optimization capabilities. SPSS was integrated
into the Software segment upon acquisition, and goodwill, as reflected in the
table below, has been entirely assigned to the Software segment. Substantially
all of the goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted
average useful life of the intangible assets acquired, excluding goodwill, is
7.0 years.  

OTHER     ACQUISITIONS    The Software segment also
completed acquisitions of four privately held companies: in the second quarter,
Outblaze Limited, a messaging software provider, and Exeros, Inc., a data
discovery firm; in the third quarter, security provider Ounce Labs, Inc.;
and in the fourth quarter, Guardium, Inc., a database security company.
Global Technology Services completed one acquisition in the fourth quarter:
RedPill Solutions PTE Limited, a privately held company focused on business
analytics.   

Purchase price consideration for the  Other Acquisitions,  as reflected
in the table below, was paid all in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents.  

2009 ACQUISITIONS   

($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  

82    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations, and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded
at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items
that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired
companies and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which
qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. For the  Other Acquisitions , the
overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets
acquired is 6.5 years. With the exception of goodwill, these identified
intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives. Goodwill of $255 million has been assigned to the Software ($246
million) and Global Technology Services ($10 million) segments. Substantially
all of the goodwill is not deductible for tax purposes.  

On October 5, 2009, the company announced that it had signed an
agreement with Bank of America Corporation to acquire the core operating assets
of Wilshire Credit Corporation, including the Wilshire mortgage servicing
platform. This acquisition continues the company s strategic focus on the
mortgage services industry and strengthens its commitment to deliver mortgage
business process outsourcing solutions. The agreement is subject to customary
closing conditions and is not expected to close until the first quarter of
2010.  

2008   

In 2008, the company completed 15 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of
$6,796 million. The Cognos, Inc. and Telelogic AB acquisitions are shown
separately given their significant purchase prices.  

COGNOS, INC. (COGNOS)    On January 31, 2008, the
company acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Cognos for
consideration of $5,021 million consisting of $4,998 million of cash and $24
million of equity instruments. Through this acquisition, IBM and Cognos will
become a leading provider of technology and services for business intelligence
and performance management, delivering the industry s most complete, open
standards-based platform with the broadest range of expertise to help companies
expand the value of their information, optimize their business processes and
maximize performance across their enterprises. The company acquired Cognos to
accelerate its Information on Demand strategy, a cross-company initiative that combines
the company s strength in information integration, content and data management
and business consulting services to unlock the business value of information.
Cognos was integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition, and goodwill,
as reflected in the table on page 84, has been entirely assigned to the
Software segment. Approximately 25-30 percent of the goodwill was deductible
for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible
assets acquired, excluding goodwill, is 6.5 years.  

TELELOGIC, AB (TELELOGIC)    On April 3, 2008, IBM
acquired 100 percent of the outstanding common shares of Telelogic for cash
consideration of $885 million. Telelogic is a leading global provider of
solutions that enable organizations to align the development of products,
complex systems and software with business objectives and customer needs. This
results in improved quality and predictability, while reducing time-to-market
and overall costs. Clients will benefit from the combined technologies and
services of both companies, providing them a wider range of software and system
development capabilities used to build complex systems. Telelogic was
integrated into the Software segment upon acquisition, and goodwill, as
reflected in the table on page 84 has been entirely assigned to the
Software segment. Substantially all of the goodwill is not deductible for tax
purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the intangible assets
acquired, excluding goodwill, is 7.0 years.  

OTHER     ACQUISITIONS    The company
acquired 13 additional companies at an aggregate cost of $889 million that are
presented in the table on page 84 as  Other Acquisitions.   

The Software segment completed eight other acquisitions, seven of which
were privately held companies: in the first quarter; AptSoft Corporation, Solid
Information Technology, Net Integration Technologies Inc., and Encentuate, Inc;
in the second quarter; Infodyne, Beijing Super Info and FilesX. In the fourth
quarter, ILOG S. A. (ILOG), a publicly held company, was acquired for $295
million. ILOG adds significant capability across the company s entire software
platform and bolsters its existing rules management offerings.  

Global Technology Services completed one acquisition in the first
quarter: Arsenal Digital Solutions, a privately held company. Arsenal provides
global clients with security rich information protection services designed to
handle increasing data retention requirements.  

Global Business Services completed one acquisition in the first quarter:
u9consult, a privately held company. u9consult complements the company s
existing capabilities in value chain consulting.  

Systems and Technology completed three acquisitions: in the second
quarter; Diligent Technologies Corporation and Platform Solutions, Inc (PSI),
both privately held companies. Diligent will be an important component of IBM s
New Enterprise Data Center model, which helps clients improve IT efficiency and
facilitates the rapid deployment of new IT services for future business growth.
PSI s technologies and skills, along with its intellectual capital, will be
integrated into the company s mainframe product engineering cycles and future
product plans. In the second quarter, $24 million of the purchase price of PSI
was attributed to the settlement of a preexisting lawsuit  

83    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

between
IBM and PSI and recorded in SG A expense. See note O,  Contingencies and
Commitments,  on pages 99 to 101 for additional information regarding this
litigation. Also, the company recorded a $24 million in-process research and
development (IPR D) charge related to this acquisition in the second
quarter. The acquisition of Transitive Corporation (Transitive) was completed
in the fourth quarter. Transitive s cross-platform technology will allow
clients to consolidate their Linux-based applications onto the IBM systems that
make the most sense for their business needs.  

Purchase price consideration for the  Other Acquisitions  was paid all
in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash
Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents.  

2008 ACQUISITIONS   

($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  

The table above reflects the purchase price related to these
acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31,
2008.  

The acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded
at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items
that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired
companies and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which
qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. For the  Other Acquisitions,  the
overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets
acquired is 4.3 years. With the exception of goodwill, these identified
intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful
lives. Goodwill of $676 million has been assigned to the Software ($328
million), Global Technology Services ($68 million) and Systems and Technology
($280 million) segments. Substantially, all of the goodwill related to  Other
Acquisitions  is not deductible for tax purposes.  

2007   

In 2007, the company completed 12 acquisitions at an aggregate cost of
$1,144 million.  

The Software segment completed six acquisitions: in the first quarter,
Consul Risk Management International BV and Vallent Corporation, both privately
held companies. Four acquisitions were completed in the third quarter:
Watchfire Corporation, WebDialogs Inc. and Princeton Softech Inc., all
privately held companies, and DataMirror Corporation, a publicly held company.
Each acquisition further complemented and enhanced the software product
portfolio.  

Global Technology Services completed four acquisitions: in the first
quarter, Softek Storage Solutions Corporation (Softek) and DM Information
Systems, Ltd. (DMIS), both privately held companies. Two acquisitions were
completed in the fourth quarter: Novus Consulting Group, Inc. and Serbian
Business Systems, both privately held companies. Softek augments the company s
unified data mobility offerings and worldwide delivery expertise for managing
data in storage array, host and virtualized IT environments. DMIS will enhance
and complement the Technology Service offerings. Novus CG, a storage solution company,
will provide improved access to business information,  

84    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

enable stronger regulatory and corporate compliance and improve overall
information technology performance. Serbian Business Systems establishes the
company s maintenance and technical support services business in Serbia.  

Global Business Services completed one acquisition in the fourth
quarter: IT Gruppen AS, which will add to the company s presence in the retail
and media sectors.  

Systems and Technology completed one acquisition in the fourth quarter:
XIV, Ltd., a privately held company focused on storage systems technology.  

Purchase price consideration was paid in cash. These acquisitions are
reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Rows net of acquired cash and cash
equivalents.  

The table below reflects the purchase price related to these
acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31,
2007.  

The acquisitions were accounted for as purchase transactions, and
accordingly, the assets and liabilities of the acquired entities were recorded
at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items
that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired
companies and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which
qualify as an amortizable intangible asset. Substantially all of the goodwill
is not deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average life of the
identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 5.4 years. With the exception
of goodwill, these identified intangible assets will be amortized over their
useful lives. Goodwill of $999 million was assigned to the Software ($639
million), Global Business Services ($14 million), Global Technology Services
($76 million) and Systems and Technology ($269 million) segments.  

2007 ACQUISITIONS   

($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  

Divestitures   

2009   

On October 26, 2009, the company announced that it had signed an
agreement with Dassault Systemes (DS) under which DS would acquire the
company s activities associated with sales and support of DS s product
lifecycle management (PLM) software solutions, including customer contracts and
related assets. This transaction is subject to customary closing conditions and
is expected to close in the first quarter of 2010. The company expects to
record a gain when this transaction is completed.  

On October 1, 2009, the company completed the divestiture of its
UniData and Universe software products and related tools to Rocket Software, a
privately held global software development firm. The company recognized a gain on
the transaction in the fourth quarter.  

On March 16, 2009, the company completed the sale of certain
processes, resources, assets and third-party contracts related to its core
logistics operations to Geodis. The company received proceeds of $365 million
and recognized a net gain of $298 million on the transaction in the first
quarter of 2009. The gain was net of the fair value of certain contractual
terms, certain transaction costs and related real estate charges. As part of
this transaction, the company outsourced its logistics operations to Geodis
which enables the company to leverage industry-leading skills and scale and
improve the productivity of the company s supply chain.  

2007   

In
January 2007, the company announced an agreement with Ricoh Company
Limited (Ricoh), a publicly traded company, to form a joint venture company
based on the Printing System Division (a division of the Systems and Technology
segment).  

85    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The company initially created a wholly owned subsidiary, InfoPrint
Solutions Company, LLC (InfoPrint), by contributing specific assets and liabilities
from its printer business. The Printing Systems Division generated
approximately $1 billion of revenue in 2006. The InfoPrint portfolio includes
solutions for production printing for enterprises and commercial printers as
well as solutions for office workgroup environments and industrial segments. On
June 1, 2007 (closing date), the company divested 51 percent of its
interest in InfoPrint to Ricoh. The company will divest its remaining 49
percent ownership to Ricoh quarterly over the next three years from the closing
date. At December 31, 2009, the company s ownership in InfoPrint was 8.0
percent.  

The total consideration the company agreed to on January 24, 2007
(the date the definitive agreement was signed) was $725 million which was paid
in cash to the company on the closing date. The cash received was consideration
for the initial 51 percent acquisition of InfoPrint by Ricoh as well as a
prepayment for the remaining 49 percent to be acquired and certain royalties
and services to be provided by the company to InfoPrint. Final consideration
for this transaction will be determined at the end of the three-year period
based upon the participation in the profits and losses recorded by the equity
partners. The company concluded that InfoPrint met the requirements of a
variable interest entity, the company is not the primary beneficiary of the
entity and that deconsolidation of the applicable net assets was appropriate.
The company s investment in InfoPrint is accounted for under the equity method
of accounting.  

The company will provide maintenance services for one year, certain
hardware products for three years and other information technology and business
process services to InfoPrint for up to five years. The company assessed the
fair value of these arrangements, and, as a result, deferred $274 million of
the proceeds. This amount will be recorded as revenue, primarily in the
company s services segments, as services are provided to InfoPrint.  

The royalty agreements are related to the use of certain of the
company s trademarks for up to 10 years. The company assessed the fair value of
these royalty agreements, and, as a result, deferred $116 million of the
proceeds. This amount will be recognized as intellectual property and custom
development income as it is earned in subsequent periods.  

Net assets contributed, transaction-related expenses and provisions were
$90 million, resulting in an expected total pre-tax gain of $245 million, of
which $81 million was recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings in the second quarter of 2007  

The deferred pre-tax gain of $164 million at the closing date was
primarily related to: (1) the transfer of the company s remaining 49
percent interest in InfoPrint to Ricoh, and, (2) the transfer of certain
maintenance services employees to InfoPrint. The company will recognize this
amount over a three-year period as the remaining ownership interest is divested
and the employees are transferred. The pre-tax gain will be recorded in other
(income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

Note D.    

   Fair Value   

Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair
Value on a Recurring Basis   

The
following table presents the company s financial assets and financial
liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31,
2009 and 2008.  

($ in millions)  

(1)   Represents netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying
master netting agreement.  

(2)   The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid
expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 are $273
million and $565 million, respectively.  

(3)   The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within
other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the
Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2009 are $906
million and $649 million, respectively.  

86    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($
in millions)  

(1)   Represents netting of derivative exposures covered by a qualifying
master netting agreement.  

(2)       The gross balances of derivative assets contained
within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry
assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31,
2008 are $773 million and $1,117 million, respectively.  

(3)       The gross balances of derivative liabilities
contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2008
are $1,414 million and $702 million, respectively.  

Items Measured at Fair Value on a Nonrecurring Basis   

In
the fourth quarter of 2008, the company recorded an other-than-temporary
impairment of $81 million for an equity method investment. The resulting
investment which was classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy was
valued using a discounted cash flow model. The valuation inputs included an
estimate of future cash flows, expectations about possible variations in the
amount and timing of cash flows and a discount rate based on the risk-adjusted
cost of capital. Potential results were assigned probabilities that resulted in
a weighted average or most-likely discounted cash flow fair value as of December 31,
2008. The fair value of the investment after impairment was $7 million at December 31,
2008. During 2009, the balance of this investment was further reduced by an
additional impairment of $5 million and other adjustments primarily related to
dividends. The balance of this investment was zero at December 31, 2009.  

Note E.   

   Financial Instruments (Excluding Derivatives)   

Fair Value of Financial Instruments   

Cash
and cash equivalents, debt and marketable equity securities and derivative
financial instruments are recognized and measured at fair value in the company s
financial statements. Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments
are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts
payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt are financial liabilities
with carrying values that approximate fair value. In the absence of quoted
prices in active markets, considerable judgment is required in developing
estimates of fair value. Estimates are not necessarily indicative of the
amounts the company could realize in a current market transaction. The
following methods and assumptions are used to estimate fair values:  

Loans and Long-term Receivables   

Estimates
of fair value are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest
rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the
same remaining maturities.  

Long-term Debt   

Fair
value of publicly traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for
the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other
long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected
present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for
debt with similar terms and remaining maturies is used to estimate fair value. The
carrying amount of long-term debt is $21,932 million and $22,689 million and
the estimated fair value is $23,748 million and $23,351 million at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  

87    

Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Debt and Marketable Equity Securities   

The
following table summarizes the company s debt and marketable equity securities
all of which are considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value in
the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

($ in millions)  

*                     Included within
cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

**              Reported as
marketable securities within the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

*** Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position. See note I,  Investments and Sundry Assets, 
on page 89.  

Gross
unrealized gains (before taxes) on debt securities were less than $1 million
and $1 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Gross
unrealized gains (before taxes) on marketable equity securities were $201
million and $31 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Gross
unrealized losses (before taxes) on debt securities were less than $1 million
at December 31, 2009 and 2008. Gross unrealized losses (before taxes) on
marketable equity securities were $10 million and $27 million at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively. Based on an evaluation of available evidence as of
December 31, 2009, the company believes that unrealized losses on
marketable equity securities are temporary and do not represent a need for an other-than-temporary
impairment. See note N,  Equity Activity,  on pages 98 and 99 for net
change in unrealized gains and losses on debt and marketable equity securities.  

Proceeds from sales of debt securities and marketable equity securities
were approximately $24 million and $787 million during 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The gross realized gains and losses (before taxes) on these sales totaled $3
million and $40 million, respectively in 2009. The gross realized gains and
losses (before taxes) on these sales totaled $182 million and $13 million, respectively,
in 2008.  

The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt
securities are due in less than one year at December 31, 2009.  

Note F.   

   Inventories   

($ in millions)  

Note G.   

   Financing Receivables   

($ in millions)  

Net
investment in sales-type and direct financing leases is for leases that relate
principally to the company s systems products and are for terms ranging
generally from two to six years. Net investment in sales-type and direct
financing leases includes unguaranteed residual values of $849 million and $916
million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and is reflected net
of unearned income of $905 million and $1,049 million and of allowance for
doubtful accounts receivable of $159 million and $217 million at those dates, respectively.
Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31,
2009, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2010, 49
percent; 2011, 27 percent; 2012, 15 percent; 2013, 6 percent; and 2014 and
beyond, 2 percent.  

Commercial financing receivables relate primarily to inventory and
accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and non-IBM
products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing
generally range from 30 to 90 days.  

Client loan receivables are loans that are provided by Global Financing
primarily to clients to finance the purchase of software and services. Separate
contractual relationships on these  

88    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

financing
arrangements are for terms ranging generally from two to seven years. Each
financing contract is priced independently at competitive market rates. The
company has a history of enforcing the terms of these separate financing
agreements.  

The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral
for non-recourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for
borrowings were $271 million and $373 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively. These borrowings are included in note K,  Borrowings,  on pages 90
to 92.  

The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31,
2009 and 2008.  

Note H.   

   Plant, Rental Machines and Other Property   

($ in millions)  

Note I.   

   Investments and Sundry Assets   

($ in millions)  

*                     Reclassified to
conform with 2009 presentation.  

**   Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred
arrangements are related to Global Services client arrangements. Also see note
A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 70 to 79 for additional
information.  

+                     See note L,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96 for the fair value of
all derivatives reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

Note J.   

   Intangible Assets Including Goodwill   

Intangible Assets   

The
following table details the company s intangible asset balances by major asset
class.  

($ in millions)  

*     Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and
nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems, and impacts from
currency translator  

($ in millions)  

*     Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and
nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems, and impacts from
currency translation  

The
net carrying amount of intangible assets decreased $365 million for the year
ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to amortization of acquired
intangibles. No impairment of intangible assets was recorded in any of the
periods presented.  

Total amortization was $1,221 million and $1,310 million for the years
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The aggregate intangible
amortization expense for acquired intangibles (excluding capitalized software) was
$489 million and $520 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
2008,  

89    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

respectively.
In addition, in 2009 the company retired $1,147 million of fully amortized
intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated
amortization for this amount.  

The amortization expense for each of the five
succeeding years relating to intangible assets currently recorded in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be the following at December
31, 2009:  

($ in millions)  

Goodwill   

The
changes in the goodwill balances by reportable segment, for the years ended December
31, 2009 and 2008, are as follows:  

($
in millions)  

Purchase
price adjustments recorded in 2009 were related to acquisitions that were
completed on or prior to December 31, 2008 and were still subject to the
measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition
date or when information becomes available. There were no goodwill impairment
losses recorded in 2009 or 2008, and the company has no accumulated impairment
losses.  

Note K.   

   Borrowings   

Short-Term
Debt   

($
in millions)  

The
weighted-average interest rates for commercial paper at December 31, 2009 and
2008, were 0.1 percent and 3.1 percent, respectively. The weighted-average
interest rates for short-term loans were 1.8 percent and 4.5 percent at December
31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

90    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Long-Term
Debt   

Pre-Swap Borrowing   

($
in millions)  

*      $1.6 billion in debt securities issued by
IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned
finance subsidiary of the company, is included in 2010 2012. Debt securities
issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC are fully and unconditionally
guaranteed by the company.  

**   The portion of the fixed-rate
debt obligations that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of
Financial Position as an amount equal to the sum of the debt s carrying value
plus a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the
hedged debt obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates.  

Post-Swap
Borrowing (Long-term Debt, Including Current Portion)   

($
in millions)  

*      Includes $0 in 2009 and
$1,700 million in 2008 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert
floating-rate long-term debt into fixed-rate debt. (See note L,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96).  

**   Includes $9,054 million in
2009 and $7,435 million in 2008 of notional interest rate swaps that
effectively convert the fixed-rate long-term debt into floating-rate debt. (See
note L,  Derivatives and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96).  

91    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Pre-swap
annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
2009, are as follows:  

($ in millions)  

Debt Exchange   

During
the fourth quarter of 2009, the company completed an exchange of approximately
$500 million principal amount of its 7.125 percent debentures due 2096, $123
million principal amount of its 7 percent debentures due 2045 and $813 million
principal amount of its 8 percent notes due 2038, for approximately $1.5
billion of 5.60 percent senior notes due 2039 and cash of approximately $376
million. The exchange was conducted to retire high coupon long-dated debt in a
favorable interest rate environment.  

The debt exchange was accounted for as a
non-revolving debt modification in accordance with U.S. GAAP and therefore it
did not result in any gain or loss recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Cash payments made will be amortized over the life of the new debt. Upfront
fees with third parties in relation to the exchange were expensed as incurred.  

Interest on Debt   

($ in millions)  

Refer
to the related discussion on page 124 in note V,  Segment Information, 
for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note L,  Derivatives
and Hedging Transactions,  on pages 92 through 96 for a discussion of the
use of currency and interest rate swaps in the company s debt risk management
program.  

Lines of Credit   

The
company maintains a five-year, $10 billion Credit Agreement (the  Credit Agreement ),
which expires on June 28, 2012. The total expense recorded by the company
related to this facility was $6.3 million in 2009, $6.2 million in 2008 and
$6.2 million in 2007. The amended Credit Agreement permits the company and its Subsidiary
Borrowers to borrow up to $10 billion on a revolving basis. Borrowings of the Subsidiary
Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the company. The company may also,
upon the agreement of either existing lenders, or of the additional banks not
currently party to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Credit
Agreement up to an additional $2.0 billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit
Agreement, the company and Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow
amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement.
Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be based on
prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the Credit Agreement.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties,
covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The company
believes that circumstances that might give rise to breach of these covenants
or an event of default, as specified in the Credit Agreement are remote. The
company s other lines of credit, most of which are uncommitted, totaled
approximately $9,790 million and $11,031 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of
credit vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions.  

($
in millions)  

Note L.   

   Derivatives and Hedging Transactions   

The
company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender
and borrower in the global markets. In the normal course of business, the
company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency
fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity changes and client credit risk. The
company limits these risks by following established risk management policies
and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective,
financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest
rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the
interest rates associated with the company s lease and other financial assets
and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also
used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures,
derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from
foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  

92    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the
company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will
fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit
risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully
selected major financial institutions based upon their credit ratings and other
factors. The company s established policies and procedures for mitigating
credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits
for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of
counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these
arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the
arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the
maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default. The company
is also a party to collateral security arrangements with certain
counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post
collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values
exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or
can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from
the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative
instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability
position at December 31, 2009 was $779 million for which the company has posted
collateral of $37 million. Full overnight collateralization of these agreements
would be required in the event that the company s credit rating falls below
investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points,
as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The
aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in net asset positions as of December
31, 2009 was $838 million. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss
at the reporting date as a result of the counterparties failing to perform as
contracted. This exposure is reduced by $573 million of liabilities included in
master netting arrangements with those counterparties. The company does not
offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor
does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of
cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. At
December 31, 2009, the company recorded $37 million in cash collateral related
to all applicable derivative instruments in prepaid expenses and other current
assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

The company may employ derivative instruments to
hedge the volatility in equity resulting from changes in currency exchange
rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S.
dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the
company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact
upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the
underlying hedged equity. The company monitors the cash loss potential on an
ongoing basis and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by
de-designating the derivative instrument to manage this liquidity risk. Although
not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to
offset the changes in fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date
of de-designation until maturity. The company expended $533 million related to
maturities of derivative instruments that existed in qualifying net investment
hedge relationships in the 12 months ending December 31, 2009. At December 31,
2009, the company had assets of $84 million, representing the fair value of
derivative instruments in qualifying net investment hedge relationships. The
weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2009
was 1.6 years. In addition, at December 31, 2009, the company had liabilities
of $318 million representing the fair value of derivative instruments that were
previously designated in qualifying net investment hedging relationships but
were de-designated prior to December 31, 2009; of this amount $94 million is
expected to mature over the next 12 months. The notional amount of these
instruments at December 31, 2009 was $2.3 billion including original and
offsetting transactions.  

In its hedging programs, the company uses forward
contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps and cross-currency swaps,
depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged
derivative instruments.  

A brief description of the major hedging programs,
categorized by underlying risk, follows.  

Interest
Rate Risk   

Fixed and Variable Rate Borrowings   

The
company issues debt in the global capital markets, principally to fund its
financing lease and loan portfolio. Access to cost-effective financing can
result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these
mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest-rate
swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt
(i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances
into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At December 31, 2009, the total
notional amount of the company s interest rate swaps was $9.1 billion.  

Forecasted Debt Issuance   

The
company is exposed to interest rate volatility on forecasted debt issuances. To
manage this risk, the company may use forward starting interest-rate swaps to
lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt
issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did
not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December
31, 2009.  

93    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Foreign Exchange
Risk   

Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries (Net Investment)   

A
significant portion of the company s foreign currency denominated debt
portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment to reduce the volatility
in equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the
functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S.
dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward
contracts for this risk management purpose. At December 31, 2009, the total
notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges
was $1.0 billion.  

Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions   

The
company s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party
vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services
among the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In
anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility
of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange
forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are
accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the
company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is
approximately four years. At December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of
forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost
transactions was $18.7 billion with a weighted-average remaining maturity of
1.3 years.  

Foreign currency Denominated Borrowings   

The
company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated
debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert
fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in
the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for
as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company is
hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately
five years. At December 31, 2009, the total notional amount of cross-currency
swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was
$0.3 billion.  

Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency Asset/Liability Management   

The
company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its
subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash
flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign
exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign
currency exposure of a portion of the company s nonfunctional currency assets and
liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less
than two years. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the
underlying exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other
(income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31,
2009, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of
foreign currency exposure was $13.1 billion.  

Equity
Risk Management   

The
company is exposed to market price changes primarily related to certain
obligations to employees. These exposures are primarily related to market price
movements in certain broad equity market indices and in the company s own
common stock. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation
obligations are recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.
Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives,
including equity swaps and futures, to economically hedge the exposures related
to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the
total return on certain broad market indices or the total return on the company s
common stock. They are recorded at fair value with gains or losses also
reported in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December
31, 2009, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic
hedges of these compensation obligations was $0.8 billion.  

Other
Risks   

The
company holds warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with
various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share
or net cash settlement provisions. The amount of shares to be purchased under
these agreements was immaterial at December 31, 2009. The company records the
changes in the fair value of these warrants in other (income) and expense in
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

The company is exposed to a potential loss if a
client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company utilizes
credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. These
derivatives have terms of one year or less. The swaps are recorded at fair
value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any derivative instruments
relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2009.  

The following tables provide a quantitative summary
of the derivative and non-derivative instrument related risk management
activity as of and for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009:  

94    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Fair
Values of Derivative Instruments on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   

($ in millions)  

95    

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The Effect
of Derivative Instruments on the Consolidated Statement of Earnings   

($ in millions)  

   For the year
ended December 31, 2009:   

Gain (loss) recognized in
  earnings   

Derivative instruments in   

Consolidated Statement of   

Recognized on   

Attributable to risk   

fair value hedges   

Earnings line item   

derivatives(2)   

being hedged(3)   

Interest rate contracts  

Cost of financing  

$  

(172  

)  

$  

344  

Interest expense  

(97  

)  

193  

Total   

$   

(269   

)   

$   

537   

Gain (loss) recognized in
  earnings and other comprehensive income   

Effective portion   

Ineffectiveness and   

Derivative instruments in   

Effective portion   

Consolidated Statement   

reclassified from   

amounts excluded from   

cash flow hedges   

recognized in AOCI   

of Earnings line item   

AOCI to earnings   

effectiveness testing(4)   

Interest rate contracts  

$  

(0  

)  

Interest income  

$  

(13  

)  

$  

Foreign exchange
  contracts  

(718  

)  

Other (income) and
  expense  

143  

(3  

)  

Cost of sales  

(49  

)  

SG A expense  

14  

Total   

$   

(718   

)   

$   

94   

$   

(3   

)   

Gain (loss) recognized in
  earnings and other comprehensive income   

Effective portion   

Ineffectiveness and   

Derivative instruments in   

Effective portion   

Consolidated Statement   

reclassified from   

amounts excluded from   

net investment hedges   

recognized in AOCI   

of Earnings line item   

AOCI to earnings   

effectiveness testing(5)   

Foreign exchange
  contracts  

$  

234  

Interest income  

$  

$  

1  

Other (income) and
  expense  

$  

$  

Derivative instruments not     
      designated as hedging instruments(1)   

Consolidated Statement 
  of Earnings line item   

Gain (loss) recognized 
  in earnings   

Foreign exchange
  contracts  

Other (income) and
  expense  

$  

(128  

)  

Equity contracts  

SG A expense  

177  

Total   

$   

50   

Note:
AOCI represents Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in Consolidated Statement
of Changes in Equity.  

(1)              S  ee
pages 76 and 77 for additional information on the purpose for entering
into derivatives not designated as hedging instruments.  

(2)              Includes
changes in clean fair values of the derivative instruments in fair value
hedging relationships and the periodic accrual for coupon payments required
under these derivative contracts.  

(3)              Includes
basis adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item recorded during the
period and amortization of basis adjustments recorded on de-designated hedging
relationships during the period.  

(4)              A  mount
of gain (loss) recognized in income represents ineffectiveness on hedge
relationships.  

(5)              A  mount
of gain (loss) recognized in income represents amounts excluded from
effectiveness assessment.  

At
December 31, 2009, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties
and cost transactions, the company recorded net losses of $718 million (before
taxes), in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss); $427 million of
losses are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months,
providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated
transactions. At December 31, 2009, net losses of approximately $18 million
(before taxes), were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)
in connection with cash flow hedges of the company s borrowings; $10 million of
losses are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months,
providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions.  

For the 12 months ending December
31, 2009, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings
representing hedge ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge
effectiveness (for fair value hedges), or associated with an underlying
exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are
there any anticipated in the normal course of business.  

Refer to note A,  Significant Accounting
Policies , on pages 76 and 77 for additional information.  

96    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Note M.   

   Other Liabilities   

($ in millions)  

*                     Reflects
the adoption of the FASB guidance on noncontrolling interests in consolidated
financial statements. See note B,  Accounting Changes , on pages 79 to 82
for additional information.  

In response to changing
business needs, the company periodically takes workforce reduction actions to
improve productivity,      cost
competitiveness and to rebalance skills. The noncurrent      contractually obligated future payments associated with
these      activities are reflected
in the workforce reductions caption in the previous table.  

In addition, the company
executed certain special actions as      follows:
(1) the second quarter of 2005 associated with Global   S  ervices segments, primarily in Europe, (2) the
fourth quarter of      2002
associated with the acquisition of the PricewaterhouseCoopers consulting
business, (3) the second quarter of 2002      associated
with the Microelectronics Division and the rebalancing      of both the company s workforce and leased space
resources, (4)      the
2002 actions associated with the HDD business for reductions      in workforce, manufacturing capacity and space, (5) the
actions      taken in 1999, and (6) the
actions that were executed prior to 1994.  

The table below provides a roll
forward of the current and      noncurrent
liabilities associated with these special actions.  The      current
liabilities presented in the table are included in other      accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement      of Financial Position.      

($ in
millions)  

*                     T  he other adjustments column in the table above
principally includes the reclassification of noncurrent to current, foreign
currency translation adjustments and interest accretion.  

The
workforce accruals primarily relate to terminated employees who are no longer
working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their
incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual country s legal
requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee
begins receiving pension benefits or passes away. The space accruals are for
ongoing obligations to pay rent for vacant space that could not be sublet or
space that was sublet at rates lower than the committed lease arrangement. The
length of these obligations varies by lease with the longest extending through
2016.  

The company employs extensive
internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in
nature. The company also participates in environmental assessments and cleanups
at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned
facilities and Superfund sites. The company s maximum exposure for all
environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts have been recorded
for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The
total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts
classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that
do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $258 million
and $267 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Estimated
environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the consolidated
financial position or consolidated results of the company s operations in
future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to
protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations.  

As of December 31, 2009, the
company was unable to estimate the range of settlement dates and the related
probabilities  

97    

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

for
certain asbestos remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related
to the encapsulated structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement
unless the buildings are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the
company would remediate only if it performed major renovations of certain
existing buildings. Because these conditional obligations have indeterminate
settlement dates, the company could not develop a reasonable estimate of their
fair values. The company will continue to assess its ability to estimate fair
values at each future reporting date. The related liability will be recognized
once sufficient additional information becomes available. The total amounts
accrued for ARO liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position were $126 million and $127 million at December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Note N.   

   Equity Activity   

The
authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common
stock with a $.20 per share par value, of which 1,305,337,423 shares were
outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock with
a $.01 per share par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31,
2009.  

Stock Repurchases    

The
Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The
company repurchased 68,650,727 common shares at a cost of $7,534 million,
89,890,347 common shares at a cost of $10,563 million and 178,385,436 common
shares at a cost of $18,783 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. These
amounts reflect transactions executed through December 31 of each year. Actual
cash disbursements for repurchased shares may differ due to varying settlement
dates for these transactions.  

Included in the 2007
repurchases highlighted above, in May 2007, IBM International Group (IIG),
a wholly owned foreign subsidiary of the company, repurchased 118.8 million
shares of common stock for $12.5 billion under accelerated share repurchase (ASR)
agreements with three banks.  

Pursuant to the ASR agreements,
executed on May 25, 2007, IIG paid an initial purchase price of
$105.18 per share for the repurchase. The initial purchase price was subject to
adjustment based on the volume weighted-average price of IBM common stock over
a settlement period of three months for each of the banks. The adjustment also
reflected certain other amounts including the banks  carrying costs,
compensation for ordinary dividends declared by the company during the
settlement period and interest benefits for receiving the $12.5 billion payment
in advance of the anticipated purchases by each bank of shares in the open
market during the respective settlement periods. The adjustment amount could be
settled in cash, registered shares or unregistered shares at IIG s option. Under
the ASR agreements, IIG had a separate settlement with each of the three
banks. The first settlement occurred on September 6, 2007, resulting in a
settlement payment to the bank of $151.8 million. The second settlement
occurred on December 5, 2007, resulting in a settlement payment to the bank of
$253.1 million. The third settlement occurred on March 4, 2008, resulting
in a settlement payment to the company of $54.2 million. The adjusted average
price paid per share during the ASR was $108.13, resulting in a total purchase
price of $12,581 million. The $351 million difference was settled in cash. The
settlement amounts were paid in cash at the election of IIG in accordance with
the provisions of the ASR agreements and were recorded as adjustments to equity
in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position on the settlement dates.  

The company issued 6,408,265
treasury shares in 2009, 5,882,800 treasury shares in 2008 and 9,282,055
treasury shares in 2007, as a result of exercises of stock options by employees
of certain recently acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. At December 31,
2009, $6,113 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was still
available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in
private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions. In
connection with the issuance of stock as part of the company s stock-based
compensation plans, 1,550,846 common shares at a cost of $161 million,
1,505,107 common shares at a cost of $166 million and 1,282,131 common shares
at a cost of $134 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were remitted
by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax
withholding requirements. These amounts are included in the treasury stock
balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated
statement of Changes in Equity.  

Accumulated Other
Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (net of tax)   

($ in millions)  

*
Foreign currency translation adjustments are presented gross except for any
associated hedges which are presented net of tax.  

98    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Net Change in Unrealized Gains/(Losses) on Marketable Securities
(net of tax)   

($
in millions)  

*
Includes writedowns of $16.2 million and $3.0 million in 2009 and 2008,
respectively.  

Note O.   

   Contingencies and Commitments   

Contingencies    

The
company is involved in a variety of claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax
matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of
its business, including actions with respect to contracts, intellectual
property (IP), product liability, employment, benefits, securities, foreign
operations and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a
number of different parties, including competitors, partners, clients, current
or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and
representatives of the locations in which the company does business.  

The following is a summary of
the more significant legal matters involving the company.  

The company is a defendant in
an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake City, Utah by
the SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah.
Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of AT T s UNIX IP rights,
and alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, interference with
contract and breach of contract with regard to the company s distribution of AIX
and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux. The company has asserted counterclaims,
including breach of contract, violation of the Lanham Act, unfair competition,
intentional torts, unfair and deceptive trade practices, breach of the General Public
License that governs open source distributions, promissory estoppel and
copyright infringement. In October 2005, the company withdrew its patent
counterclaims in an effort to simplify and focus the issues in the case and to
expedite their resolution. Motions for summary judgment were heard in March 2007,
and the court has not yet issued its decision. On August 10, 2007, the court in
another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., issued a decision
and order determining, among other things, that Novell is the owner of UNIX and
UnixWare copyrights, and obligating SCO to recognize Novell s waiver of SCO s
claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. At the
request of the court in SCO v. IBM, on August 31, 2007, each of the parties
filed a status report with the court concerning the effect of the August 10th Novell
ruling on the SCO v. IBM case, including the pending motions. On September 14,
2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this
case were stayed. In the SCO v. Novell case, on November 25, 2008, SCO filed
its notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which
included an appeal of the August 10, 2007 ruling; on August 24, 2009, the U.S. Court
of Appeals reversed the August 10, 2007 ruling and remanded the SCO v. Novell
case for trial. On August 25, 2009, the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the District
of Delaware approved the appointment of a Chapter 11 Trustee of SCO.  

On November 29, 2006, the
company filed a lawsuit against Platform Solutions, Inc. (PSI) in the United
States District Court for the Southern District of New York, alleging that PSI
violated certain intellectual property rights of IBM. PSI asserted counterclaims
against IBM. On January 11, 2008, the court permitted T3 Technologies, a
reseller of PSI computer systems, to intervene as a counterclaim-plaintiff. T3
claimed that IBM violated certain antitrust laws by refusing to license its
patents and trade secrets to PSI and by tying the sales of its mainframe
computers to its mainframe operating systems. On June 30, 2008, IBM
acquired PSI. As a result of this transaction, IBM and PSI dismissed all claims
against each other, and PSI withdrew a complaint it had filed with the European
Commission in October 2007 with regard to IBM. On September 30, 2009, the court
granted IBM s motion for summary judgment and dismissed T3 s claims against
IBM. This decision is subject to appeal by T3. In January 2009, T3 filed a
complaint with the European Commission alleging that IBM violated European Commission
competition law based on the facts alleged in the above-referenced U.S.
litigation. IBM has been notified that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) is
investigating possible antitrust violations by IBM. The DOJ has requested
certain information, including the production of materials from the litigation
between T3 and IBM.  

The company is a defendant in
an action filed on December 14, 2009 in the United States District Court for
the Western District of Texas by Neon Enterprise Software, LLC. Neon alleges
that the company has interfered with Neon s efforts to license its zPrime
software. They seek damages and injunctive relief. In late January 2010,
IBM filed its answer to Neon s complaint and asserted counterclaims against Neon.  

99    

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

In January 2004, The Seoul
District Prosecutors Office in South Korea announced it had brought criminal
bid-rigging charges against several companies, including IBM Korea and LG IBM
(a joint venture between IBM Korea and LG electronics, which has since been
dissolved, effective January, 2005) and had also charged employees of some of
those entities with, among other things, bribery of certain officials of
government-controlled entities in Korea and bid rigging. IBM Korea and LG IBM
cooperated fully with authorities in these matters. a number of individuals,
including former IBM Korea and LG IBM employees, were subsequently found guilty
and sentenced. IBM Korea and LG IBM were also required to pay fines. Debarment
orders were imposed at different times, covering a period of no more than a
year from the date of issuance, which barred IBM Korea from doing business
directly with certain government-controlled entities in Korea. All debarment
orders have since expired and when they were in force did not prohibit IBM
Korea from selling products and services to business partners who sold to
government-controlled entities in Korea. In addition, the U.S. Department of Justice
and the SEC have both contacted the company in connection with this matter. In March 2008,
the company received a request from the SEC for additional information.  

The company was a defendant in
a civil lawsuit brought in Tokyo District Court by Tokyo Leasing Co., Ltd.,
which sought to recover losses that it allegedly suffered after IXI Co., Ltd.
initiated civil rehabilitation (bankruptcy) proceedings in Japan and apparently
failed to pay Tokyo Leasing amounts for which Tokyo Leasing sought to hold IBM
and others liable. The claims in this suit included tort and breach of
contract. The action against IBM was resolved in December 2009 and is no longer
pending.  

The company is a defendant in
numerous actions filed after January 1, 2008 in the Supreme Court for the State
of New York, county of Broome, on behalf of hundreds of plaintiffs. The
complaints allege numerous and different causes of action, including for
negligence and recklessness, private nuisance and trespass. Plaintiffs in these
cases seek medical monitoring and claim damages in unspecified amounts for a
variety of personal injuries and property damages allegedly arising out of the
presence of groundwater contamination and vapor intrusion of groundwater
contaminants into certain structures in which plaintiffs reside or resided, or
conducted business, allegedly resulting from the release of chemicals into the
environment by the company at its former manufacturing and development facility
in Endicott. These complaints also seek punitive damages in an unspecified
amount.  

The company is party to, or
otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental
agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability
Act (CERCLA), known as  Superfund,  or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes
require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation
activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also
conducting environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in
the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to
permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local
environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning
certain current or former operating sites.  

The company is also subject to
ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions.
Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is
involved in various challenges with Brazilian authorities regarding non-income
tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. These matters include
claims for taxes on the importation of computer software. In november 2008, the
company won a significant case in the Superior Chamber of the federal
administrative tax court in Brazil, and in late July 2009, the company
received written confirmation regarding this decision. The total potential
amount related to the remaining matters for all applicable years is
approximately $600 million. The company believes it will prevail on these
matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability.  

The company records a provision
with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable
that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated. Claims and proceedings are reviewed at least quarterly and
provisions are taken or adjusted to reflect the impact and status of
settlements, rulings, advice of counsel and other information pertinent to a
particular matter. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such
liabilities for the year ended December 31, 2009, were not material to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Based on its experience, the company believes that the
damage amounts claimed in the matters previously referred to are not a
meaningful indicator of the potential liability. Claims, suits, investigations
and proceedings are inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the
ultimate outcome of the matters previously discussed. While the company will
continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the company s
business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be
affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these
matters.  

Whether any losses, damages or
remedies finally determined in any such claim, suit, investigation or
proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the company s business,
financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will depend on a
number of variables, including the timing and amount of such losses or damages;
the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any
such losses, damages or remedies may have on the Consolidated Financial Statements;
and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter which may give
rise to additional factors.  

100    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Commitments   

The
company s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused
amounts of $3,576 million and $3,857 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company s
business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the
company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection
with client purchase agreements for approximately $2,788 million and $3,342
million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The change over the prior
year was due to decreased signings of long-term IT infrastructure arrangements
in which financing is committed by the company to fund a client s future
purchases from the company.  

The company has applied the
guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if
the likelihood of requiring the guarantor s performance is remote. The
following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the
guarantor.  

The company is a party to a
variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the
other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise
in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the
company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses
arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters
as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental matters,
third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual obligations and certain
income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is
conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures
specified in the particular contract, which procedures typically allow the
company to challenge the other party s claims. While typically indemnification
provisions do not include a contractual maximum on the company s payment, the
company s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time
and/or nature of claim, and in some instances, the company may have recourse
against third parties for certain payments made by the company.  

It is not possible to predict
the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar
agreements due to the conditional nature of the company s obligations and the
unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically,
payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material
effect on the company s business, financial condition or results of operations.  

In addition, the company
guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential
future payment under these financial guarantees was $85 million and $50 million
at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees
recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is not material.  

Note P.   

   Taxes   

($
in millions)  

The
continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as
follows:  

($
in millions)  

The
components of the continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing
jurisdiction are as follows:  

($
in millions)  

101    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

A
reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the company s
continuing operations effective tax rate is as follows:  

The
effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a
material impact on the company s effective tax rate.  

The significant components of
deferred tax assets and liabilities that are recorded in the Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position were as follows:  

Deferred Tax Assets   

($ in millions)  

*
Reclassified to conform with 2009 presentation.  

Deferred Tax Liabilities   

($ in millions)  

*
Reclassified to conform with 2009 presentation.  

For
income tax return purposes, the company has foreign and domestic loss
carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $860 million as well as domestic and
foreign credit carryforwards of $679 million. Substantially all of these
carryforwards are available for at least two years or are available for ten
years or more.   

The company has certain foreign
tax loss carryforwards that have not been reflected in the gross deferred tax
asset balance due to the level of uncertainty associated with the
sustainability of the losses which are under examination by the local taxing authority.
The tax benefit of these losses approximated $930 million at December 31, 2009.
In addition, during the second quarter of 2009, foreign tax losses were
utilized against a prior year tax liability resulting in a cash benefit of
approximately $360 million. However, the company has recorded an unrecognized
tax benefit for the entire amount received given the degree of uncertainty in
sustaining the associated tax benefit. The company expects that the local
taxing authority will complete its field examination in early 2010.  

The valuation allowance at December
31, 2009, principally applies to certain foreign, state and local loss
carryforwards that, in the opinion of management, are more likely than not to
expire unutilized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these
carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation
allowance will reduce income tax expense. The year-to-year change in the
allowance balance was an increase of $92 million.  

The amount of unrecognized tax
benefits at December 31, 2009 increased by $892 million in 2009 to $4,790
million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized
tax benefits is as follows:  

($ in millions)  

The
additions to the unrecognized tax benefits related to the current and prior
years are primarily attributable to non-U.S. issues, certain tax incentives and
credits, acquisition-related matters and other non-U.S. and state matters.  

102    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The settlements and reductions
to the unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions of prior years are primarily
attributable to the conclusion of the company s various U.S., state and non-U.S.
income tax examinations and various non-U.S. matters including impacts due to
lapses in statutes of limitation.  

The liability at December 31,
2009 of $4,790 million can be reduced by $577 million of offsetting tax
benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing
adjustments, state income taxes and timing adjustments. The net amount of
$4,213 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company s effective
tax rate. The net amounts at December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007 were
$3,366 million and $2,598 million, respectively.  

Interest and penalties related
to income tax liabilities are included in income tax expense. During the year
ended December 31, 2009, the company recognized $193 million in interest and
penalties; in 2008, the company recognized $96 million in interest and
penalties and in 2007, the company recognized $85 million in interest and
penalties. The company has $479 million for the payment of interest and
penalties accrued at December 31, 2009 and had $286 million accrued at December
31, 2008.  

Within the next 12 months, the
company believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of
unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain positions may be
significantly reduced. The potential decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax
benefits is primarily associated with the possible resolution of the company s U.S.
income tax audit for 2006 and 2007, as well as various non-U.S. audits. Specific
positions that may be resolved, and that may significantly reduce the related
amount of unrecognized tax benefits, include transfer pricing matters, tax
incentives and credits as well as various other foreign tax matters including
foreign tax loss utilization. The company estimates that the unrecognized tax
benefits at December 31, 2009 could be reduced by approximately $1,100 million.  

With limited exception, the
company is no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local or non-U.S.
income tax audits by taxing authorities for years through 2003. The years
subsequent to 2003 contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations
of applicable tax laws and regulations as it relates to the amount and/or
timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the outcome of tax
audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax
and interest have been provided for any adjustments that are expected to result
for these years.  

During the fourth quarter of
2008, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) concluded its examination of the
company s income tax returns for 2004 and 2005 and issued a final Revenue Agent s
Report (RAR). The company has agreed with all of the adjustments contained in
the RAR, with the exception of a proposed adjustment, with a pre-tax amount in
excess of $2 billion, relating to valuation matters associated with the
intercompany transfer of certain intellectual property in 2005 and
computational issues related to certain tax credits. The company disagrees with
the IRS position on these specific matters and in March 2009 filed a
protest with the IRS Appeals Office.  

The audit of the company s 2006
and 2007 U.S. income tax returns commenced in the first quarter of 2009. The
company anticipates that this audit will be completed by the end of 2010.  

The company has not provided
deferred taxes on $26.0 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries at December 31, 2009, as it is the company s policy to
indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations. However, the
company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that
it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the
deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested
earnings is not practicable.  

For additional information on
the company s effective tax rate refer to the  Looking Forward  section of the
Management Discussion on pages 47 to 49.  

Note Q.   

   Research, Development and Engineering   

RD E
expense was $5,820 million in 2009, $6,337 million in 2008 and $6,153 million
in 2007.  

The company incurred expense of
$5,523 million in 2009, $6,015 million in 2008 and $5,754 million in 2007 for
scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the
development of new and improved products and their uses, as well as services
and their application. Within these amounts, software-related expense was
$2,991 million, $3,359 million and $3,037 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007,
respectively. In addition, included in the expense was a charge of $24 million
in 2008 for acquired IPR D.  

Expense for product-related
engineering was $297 million, $322 million and $399 million in 2009, 2008 and
2007, respectively.  

103    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

N    ote R.   

   Earnings Per Share of Common Stock   

The
following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share of common stock.  

* Reflects the adoption
of the FASB guidance in determining whether instruments granted in share-based
payment transactions are participating securities. See note B,  Accounting Changes, 
on pages 79 to 82 for additional information.  

Stock
options to purchase 612,272 common shares in 2009, 42,981,463 common shares in
2008 and 62,782,516 common shares in 2007 were outstanding, but were not
included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price
of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares
for the applicable full year, and therefore, the effect would have been
antidilutive.  

Note S.   

   Rental Expense and Lease Commitments   

Rental
expense from continuing operations, including amounts charged to inventories
and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,677 million
in 2009, $1,681 million in 2008 and $1,559 million in 2007. Rental expense in
agreements  

104    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

with
rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis
over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the determination of
rental expense as accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum rental
commitments from continuing operations under noncancelable leases, amounts related
to vacant space associated with infrastructure reductions and restructuring
actions taken through 1994, and in 1999, 2002 and 2005 (previously reserved),
sublease income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts
reflect activities primarily related to office space, as well as manufacturing
facilities.  

($
in millions)  

Note T.   

   Stock-Based Compensation   

Stock-based
compensation cost is measured at grant date, based on the fair value of the
award, and is recognized over the employee requisite service period. See note A,
 Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 76 for additional information.  

The following table presents
total stock-based compensation cost included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

($ in millions)  

* Reflects the one-time effects
of the divestiture of the Printing Systems business in the second quarter of
2007.  

Total
unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at December 31,
2009 and 2008 was $1,082 million and $1,076 million, respectively, and is
expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.5
years.  

There was no significant
capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

Incentive Awards   

Stock-based
incentive awards are provided to employees under the terms of the company s
long-term performance plans (the  Plans ). The Plans are administered by the Executive
Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ).
Awards available under the Plans principally include stock options, restricted
stock units, performance share units or any combination thereof. The
nonmanagement members of the IBM Board of Directors also received stock options
under a director stock option plan through December 31, 2006. The director
stock option plan was terminated effective January 1, 2007.  

The amount of shares originally
authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans was 274.1 million at
December 31, 2009 and 2008. In addition, certain incentive awards granted under
previous Plans, if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under
the company s existing Plans. As such, 66.4 million and 47.6 million additional
awards were considered authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were 1.9 million and 23.8
million option awards outstanding (which were included in the total options
outstanding at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively) under previous Plans
that, if and when canceled, would increase the number of authorized shares. There
were 140.4 million and 130.1 million unused shares available to be granted
under the Plans as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

Under the company s
long-standing practices and policies, all awards are approved prior to or on
the date of grant. The exercise price of at-the-money stock options is the
average of the high and low market price on the date of grant. The options  

105    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

approval
process specifies the individual receiving the grant, the number of options or
the value of the award, the exercise price or formula for determining the
exercise price and the date of grant. All awards for senior management are
approved by the Committee. All awards for employees other than senior
management are approved by senior management pursuant to a series of
delegations that were approved by the Committee, and the grants made pursuant
to these delegations are reviewed periodically with the Committee. Awards that
are given as part of annual total compensation for senior management and other
employees are made on specific cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect
to awards given in connection with promotions or new hires, the company s
policy requires approval of such awards prior to the grant date, which is
typically the date of the promotion or the date of hire. The exercise price of
these options is the average of the high and low market price on the date of
grant.  

Stock Options   

Stock
Options are awards which allow the employee to purchase shares of the company s
stock at a fixed price. Stock options are granted at an exercise price equal to
the company stock price on the date of grant. These awards, which generally
vest 25 percent per year, are fully vested four years from the date of grant
and have a contractual term of ten years. The company also had a stock-based
program under the Plans for its senior executives, designed to drive improved
performance and increase the ownership executives have in the company. These
executives had the opportunity to receive at-the-money stock options by
agreeing to defer a certain percentage of their annual incentive compensation
into IBM equity, where it is held for three years or until retirement. In 2005,
this program was expanded to cover all executives of the company. Options under
this program become fully vested three years from the date of grant and have a
contractual term of ten years. The plan element permitting executives to defer
annual incentive compensation into IBM equity and receive at-the-money stock
options was terminated at December 31, 2006.  

The company estimates the fair value
of stock options using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and
assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the grant
price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the company s
stock, the risk-free rate and the company s dividend yield. Estimates of fair
value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately
realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not
indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made
by the company.  

The fair value of each stock
option grant was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option
pricing model. The following table presents the weighted-average assumptions
used in the valuation and the resulting weighted-average fair value per option
granted.  

*          During
the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, the company did not grant stock
options.  

**       The option term is the number of years that the company
estimates, based upon history, that options will be outstanding prior to
exercise or forfeiture.  

+          The
company s estimates of expected volatility are principally based on daily price
changes of the company s stock over the expected option term, as well as the
additional requirements included in accounting guidance on share-based
payments.  

The
following table summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

106    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The
shares under option at December 31, 2009 were in the following exercise price
ranges:  

In
connection with various acquisition transactions, there were an additional 1.1
million options outstanding at December 31, 2009, as a result of the company s
assumption of options granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average
exercise price of these options was $76 per share.  

Exercises of Employee Stock Options   

The
total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 was $639 million, $1,073 million and $1,414 million,
respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee
stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was
approximately $2,744 million, $3,320 million and $3,619 million, respectively.
In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company
for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $243 million, $356
million and $481 million, respectively.  

The company settles employee
stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common shares and,
occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury shares held at December 31,
2009 and 2008 were approximately 822 million and 758 million shares,
respectively.  

Stock Awards   

In lieu of stock options,
currently the company grants its employees stock awards. These awards are made
in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock
Units (RRSUs), or Performance Share Units (PSUs). RSUs are stock awards granted
to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award
vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards
is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price.
For RSUs awarded after December 31, 2007, dividend equivalents will not be
paid. The fair value of such RSUs is determined and fixed on the grant date
based on the company s stock price adjusted for the exclusion of dividend
equivalents.  

The tables on page 108
summarize RSU and PSU activity under the Plans during the years ended December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

107    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

RSUs   

PSUs   

*          Represents
additional shares issued to employees after vesting of PSUs because final
performance metrics exceeded specified targets.  

**       Represents the number of shares expected to be issued
based on achievement of grant date performance targets. The actual number of
shares issued depends on the company s performance against specified targets
over the vesting period.  

The
remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2009, 2008
and 2007 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the awards
will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value of RSUs
granted during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 was $467
million, $490 million and $513 million, respectively. The total fair value of
RSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 was $272 million, $311 million and $213 million, respectively. As of December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, there was $892 million, $863 million and $740 million,
respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs. The
company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and
release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007.  

PSUs are stock awards where the
number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on the company s
performance against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year
period. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the grant date, based on
the company s stock price, and assumes that performance targets will be
achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of stock that will
be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the probability of
achievement of performance targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and
the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a
comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. The fair
value of PSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007
was $159 million, $126 million and $116 million, respectively. Total fair value
of PSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and
2007 was $120 million, $78 million and $88 million, respectively.  

In connection with vesting and
release of RSUs and PSUs, the tax benefits realized by the company for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 were $156 million, $165 million and
$133 million, respectively.  

IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan   

The
company maintains a non-compensatory Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The
ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM
common stock at a five-percent discount off the average market price on the day
of purchase through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible
compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the
employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which
shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under
the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000
of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period.  

108    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Employees purchased 3.2
million, 3.5 million and 4.0 million shares under the ESPP during the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Cash dividends declared
and paid by the company on its common stock also include cash dividends on the
company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and
fractional shares and can be reinvested in the ESPP. The company stock
purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is included in the
weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing basic and diluted
earnings per share.  

Approximately 9.6 million, 12.8
million and 16.3 million shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December
31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.  

Note U.   

   Retirement-Related Benefits   

Description of Plans   

IBM
sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that
cover substantially all regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that
covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily
consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and
dependents.  

U.S. Plans   

DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS   

IBM Personal Pension Plan   

IBM
provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1,
2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal
Pension Plan. Prior to 2008, the IBM Personal Pension Plan consisted of a tax
qualified (qualified) plan and a non-tax qualified (nonqualified) plan. Effective
January 1, 2008, the nonqualified plan was renamed the Excess Personal Pension
Plan (Excess PPP) and the qualified plan is now referred to as the Qualified
PPP. The combined plan is now referred to as the PPP. The Qualified PPP is
funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for
the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The Excess PPP, which is
unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified plans.  

Benefits provided to the PPP
participants are calculated using benefit formulas that vary based on the
participant. Pension benefits are calculated using one of two methods based
upon specified criteria used to determine each participant s eligibility. The
first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that determines benefits based
on salary, years of service, mortality and other participant-specific factors. The
second method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a
percentage of employees  annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate.  

Benefit accruals under the IBM Personal
Pension Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants.  

U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan   

The
company also sponsors a nonqualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan
(Retention Plan). The Retention Plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits to
eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at
termination of employment. Effective July 1, 1999, the company replaced
the then effective Retention Plan with the current Retention Plan. Some
participants in the previous Retention Plan will still be eligible for benefits
under that prior plan if those benefits are greater than the benefits provided
under the current plan.  

Benefit accruals under the Retention
Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants.  

DEFINED CONTRIBUTION PLANS   

IBM 401(k) Plus Plan   

U.S.
regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the
IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under
section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Effective January 1,
2008, under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees receive a
dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions up to 6 percent of eligible
compensation for those hired prior to January 1, 2005, and up to 5 percent
of eligible compensation for those hired on or after January 1, 2005. In
addition, eligible employees receive automatic contributions from the company
equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of eligible compensation based on their eligibility
to participate in the PPP as of December 31, 2007. Employees receive automatic
contributions and matching contributions after the completion of one year of
service. Further, through June 30, 2009, IBM contributed transition
credits to eligible participants  401(k) Plus Plan accounts. The amount of
the transition credits was based on a participant s age and service as of June 30,
1999.  

Prior to January 1, 2008,
the company match equaled 50 percent of the first 6 percent of eligible
compensation that participants contributed to the plan for those hired before January 1,
2005, and 100 percent of the first 6 percent contributed for those hired after December
31, 2004.  

The company s matching
contributions vest immediately and participants are always fully vested in
their own contributions. All contributions, including the company match, are
made in cash and invested in accordance with participants  investment
elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in company stock,
and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of company stock to
another investment choice, other than excessive trading rules applicable
to such investments.  

109    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan   

Effective
January 1, 2008, the company replaced the IBM Executive Deferred Compensation
Plan, an unfunded, nonqualified, defined contribution plan, with the IBM Excess
401(k) Plus Plan (Excess 401(k)), an unfunded, nonqualified defined
contribution plan. All employees whose eligible compensation is expected to
exceed the IRS compensation limit for qualified plans are eligible to
participate in the Excess 401(k). The purpose of the Excess 401(k) is to
provide benefits that would be provided under the qualified IBM 401(k) Plus
Plan if the compensation limits did not apply.  

Amounts deferred into the Excess
401(k) are recordkeeping (notional) accounts and are not held in trust for
the participants. Participants in the Excess 401(k) may invest their
notional accounts in the primary investment options available to all employees
through the 401(k) Plus Plan.  p articipants
in the  e xcess 401(k) are
also eligible to receive company match and automatic contributions on eligible
compensation deferred into the  e xcess
401(k) and on compensation earned in excess of the Internal  r evenue  c ode pay limit once they have completed one year of service. Through
June 30, 2009, eligible participants also received transition credits. Amounts
deferred into the  e xcess 401(k),
including company contributions are recorded as liabilities.  

NONPENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN   

U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Plan   

The
company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that
provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible
dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Effective July 1,
1999, the company established a Future  h ealth
 a ccount (FHA) for employees who
were more than five years from retirement eligibility. Employees who were
within five years of retirement eligibility are covered under the company s
prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either the FHA or the prior
retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for
retiree health benefits.  

Since January 1, 2004, new
hires, as of that date or later, are not eligible for company subsidized
postretirement benefits.  

Non-U.S. Plans   

Most
subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor defined benefit
and/or defined contribution plans that cover substantially all regular
employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type
arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves
for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based
either on years of service and the employee s compensation (generally during a
fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The
range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans
reflect the different economic environments within the various countries.  

In addition, certain of the
company s non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor defined benefit nonpension
postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits to
eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance
for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most of the non-U.S. retirees
are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs.  

Plan Financial Information   

Summary of Financial Information   

The
following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net
periodic (income)/cost recorded in the  c onsolidated
 s tatement of  e arnings.  

($
in millions)  

* Reclassified to conform with
2009 presentation.  

110    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The
following table presents a summary of the total projected benefit obligation (PBO)
for defined benefit plans, accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO)
for nonpension postretirement benefit plans (benefit obligations), fair value
of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the  c onsolidated  s tatement of Financial  p osition.  

($ in millions)  

*                Funded
status is recognized in the  c onsolidated
 s tatement of Financial  p osition as follows:  a sset amounts as prepaid pension
assets; (liability) amounts as compensation and benefits (current liability)
and retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (noncurrent
liability).  

At
December 31, 2009, the company s qualified defined benefit pension plans
worldwide were 99 percent funded compared to the benefit obligations, with the U.S.
qualified PPP 101 percent funded. Overall, including nonqualifed plans, the
company s defined benefit pension plans were 91 percent funded, an improvement
of 6 points from the year-end 2008 position.  

Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit
Plan Financial Information   

The
tables on pages 112 to 114 represent financial information for the company s
retirement-related benefit plans. Defined benefit pension plans in the U.S. Plans
consist of the Qualified PPP, the  e xcess
PPP and the  r etention  p lan. Defined benefit pension plans in
the Non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the company s
subsidiaries. The nonpension postretirement benefit plan in the U.S. plan
represents the U.S.  n onpension  p ostretirement Benefit  p lan.  n onpension
postretirement benefit plans in the  n on-U.S.
Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries.  

The tables on page 112
present the components of net periodic (income)/cost of the company s
retirement-related benefit plans recognized in Consolidated Statement of  e arnings.  

111    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions)  

* Reclassified to conform with
2009 presentation.  

($ in millions)  

112    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The
following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets of
the company s retirement-related benefit plans.  

($ in millions)  

*                     Excludes a defined benefit pension plan in Brazil due
to restrictions on the use of plan assets imposed by governmental regulations.  

**              Represents the benefit obligation assuming no future
participant compensation increases.  

N/A not applicable  

The
following table presents the net funded status recognized in the  c onsolidated  s tatement of Financial  p osition.  

($ in millions)  

The
table on page 114 presents the pre-tax net loss and prior service
costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in other comprehensive
income/(loss) and the changes in pre-tax net loss, prior service
costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in accumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss) for the retirement-related benefit plans.  

113    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions)  

*                See
note N,  Equity Activity,  on page 98 for the total change in the accumulated
other comprehensive income/(loss) and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for components of net periodic (income)/cost, including the related tax
effects, recognized in other comprehensive income/(loss) for the
retirement-related benefit plans.  

The
following table presents the pre-tax estimated net loss, estimated prior
service costs/(credits) and estimated transition (assets)/liabilities of the
retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from accumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss) into net periodic (income)/cost and recorded in the
Consolidated Statement of Earnings in 2010.  

($
in millions)  

Defined   

Nonpension Post-   

Benefit Pension Plans   

retirement Benefit Plans   

U.S. Plans   

Non-U.S. Plans   

U.S. Plan   

Non-U.S. Plans   

Net loss  

$  

476  

$  

722  

$  

$  

9  

Prior service costs/(credits)  

10  

(165  

)  

(14  

)  

(5  

)  

Transition
  (assets)/liabilities  

0  

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, the company paid $140 million for
mandatory pension insolvency insurance coverage premiums in certain non-U.S.
countries (Germany, Canada, Luxembourg and the U.K.), an increase of $117
million from the year ended December 31, 2008, driven primarily by
premiums paid in Germany. These premiums relate to the rising level of plan
insolvencies experienced by other companies.  

During
the year ended December 31, 2009, the company approved changes to the United
Kingdom Pension Plan which included the elimination of accrued benefits under
this plan effective April 2011. As a result of this action, the company
recorded a curtailment gain of $124 million included in 2009 net periodic
(income)/cost and reduced the PBO by $85 million. The company also amended its
cash balance and defined contribution plans in Japan to reduce overall benefits
for active participants for future years of service. This amendment resulted in
a decrease in the PBO of $359 million and had no impact on 2009 net periodic
(income)/cost.  

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, the IBM Board of Directors approved a pension
adjustment for certain U.S. retirees and beneficiaries in the PPP. This
adjustment provided a pension increase to approximately 42,000 IBM retirees who
retired before January 1, 1997. This adjustment resulted in an increase in
the PBO of $222 million and had no impact on 2008 net periodic (income)/cost.  

During
the year ended December 31, 2008, the company terminated one of its
defined benefit pension plans in Japan that resulted in a settlement gain of
$140 million recorded as part of 2008 net periodic (income)/cost and resulted
in a decrease in the PBO of $157 million.  

114    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

No
significant amendments of retirement-related benefit plans occurred during the
year ended December 31, 2007 that had a material effect on the Consolidated
Statement of Earnings.  

Assumptions Used to Determine Plan Financial Information   

Underlying
both the measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic (income)/cost are
actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information
such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the
most significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return
on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and
mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum,
annually, and makes changes as necessary.  

The
table below presents the assumptions used to measure the net periodic
(income)/cost and the year-end benefit obligations for retirement-related
benefit plans.  

*    Rate of compensation increase is not
applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased
December 31, 2007 for all participants.  

  N/A Not applicable  

N/A Not
applicable  

DISCOUNT RATE   

The
discount rate assumptions used for retirement-related benefit plans accounting
reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed income debt instruments at
the measurement date. For the U.S. discount rate assumptions, a portfolio of
high-quality corporate bonds is used to construct a yield curve. The cash flows
from the company s expected benefit obligation payments are then matched to the
yield curve to derive the discount rates. In the non-U.S., where markets for
high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, a portfolio
of long-term government bonds is used as a base, to which a credit spread is
added to simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction
of each plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates.  

115    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

For
the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in discount rate
assumptions impacted the net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. The changes in
discount rate assumptions resulted in a decrease in 2009 net periodic income of
$70 million, an increase in 2008 net periodic income of $67 million and a
decrease in 2007 net periodic cost of $92 million. The changes in discount rate
assumptions resulted in an increase in the PBO of $703 million and $1,190
million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.  

For
the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the changes in discount rate
assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years ended December 31,
2009, 2008 and 2007 and on the APBO at December 31, 2009 and 2008.  

EXPECTED LONG-TERM RETURNS ON PLAN ASSETS   

Expected
returns on plan assets, a component of net periodic (income)/cost, represent
the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated
market-related value of plan assets. Expected long-term returns on plan assets
take into account long-term expectations for future returns and investment
policies and strategies as described on page 117. These rates of return
are developed by the company, calculated using an arithmetic average and are
tested for reasonableness against historical returns. The use of expected
long-term returns on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that
is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given
year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to
approximate the actual long-term returns, and therefore result in a pattern of
income and cost recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the
services provided by the employees. Differences between actual and expected
returns are recognized as a component of net loss or gain in accumulated other
comprehensive income/(loss), which is amortized as a component of net periodic
(income)/cost over the service lives or life expectancy of the plan
participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed certain
thresholds provided by accounting standards. The market-related value of plan
assets recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over
a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic
(income)/cost.  

For
the U.S. defined benefit pension plan, Qualified PPP, the expected long-term
rate of return on plan assets of 8.00 percent remained constant for the years
ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 and, consequently, had no
incremental impact on net periodic (income)/cost.  

For
the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company maintains a nominal,
highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure payments are made timely. As a
result, for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the expected
long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not
material.  

RATE OF COMPENSATION INCREASES AND MORTALITY RATE   

The
rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its
long-term plans for such increases. The rate of compensation increase is not
applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased
December 31, 2007 for all participants. Mortality rate assumptions are
based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants.
Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience.  

INTEREST CREDITING RATE   

Benefits
for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance
formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate,
which impacts both net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. This assumption
provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants
will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year
and is based on the average from August to October of the one-year
U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent.  

For
the PPP, the change in the interest crediting rate to 2.8 percent for the year
ended December 31, 2009 from 5.2 percent for the year ended December 31,
2008 resulted in an increase in 2009 net periodic income of $151 million. The
change in the interest crediting rate to 5.2 percent for the year ended December 31,
2008 from 6.0 percent for the year ended December 31, 2007 resulted in an
increase in 2008 net periodic income of $65 million. The change in the interest
crediting rate to 6.0 percent for the year ended December 31, 2007 from
5.0 percent for the year ended December 31, 2006 resulted in an increase
in 2007 net periodic cost of $125 million.  

116    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

HEALTHCARE COST TREND RATE   

For
nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external
data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the
healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an
insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of
the plan which limit the company s obligation to the participants. The company
assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2010 will be 7 percent. In
addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5
percent over the next three years. A one percentage point increase or decrease
in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have a material effect on
2009, 2008 and 2007 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations as of December 31,
2009 and 2008.  

Plan Assets   

Retirement-related
benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value as described in
note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 77. Because of the
inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements may not
necessarily reflect the amounts the company could realize in current market
transactions.  

INVESTMENT POLICIES AND STRATEGIES   

The
investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate
returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. The precise
amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events,
including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans  participants.
The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current
economic environment and other pertinent factors described on page 115.
The Qualified PPP portfolio s investment strategy balances the requirement to
generate returns, using potentially higher yielding assets such as equity
securities, with the need to control risk in the portfolio with less volatile
assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others,
inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could
cause the plan to become underfunded, thereby increasing its dependence on
contributions from the company. To mitigate any potential concentration risk,
careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry
sectors, companies and geographies, taking into account interest rate
sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that
affect investment returns. As a result, the Qualified PPP portfolio s target
allocation is 44 percent equity securities, 46 percent fixed income securities,
5 percent real estate and 5 percent other investments, which is consistent with
the allocation decisions made by the company s management and is similar to the
prior year target allocation. The table on page 118 details the actual
allocation of equity, fixed income, real estate and all other types of
investments for the Qualified PPP portfolio.  

The
assets are managed by professional investment firms and investment
professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by investment
mandates determined by the company s management and are measured against
specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not
limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment
style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies.  

Market
liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with only a modest percentage of the
Qualified PPP portfolio invested in private market assets consisting of private
equities and private real estate investments, which are less liquid than
publicly traded securities. As of December 31, 2009, the Qualified PPP
portfolio had $3,618 million in commitments for future investments in private
markets to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be
funded from plan assets.  

Derivatives
are used on a limited basis as an effective means to achieve investment
objectives and/or as a component of the plan s risk management strategy. The
primary reasons for the use of derivatives are fixed income management,
including duration, interest rate management and credit exposure, cash
equitization and as a means to gain exposure to the currency and commodities
markets.  

Outside
the U.S., the investment objectives are similar to those described above,
subject to local regulations. The weighted average target allocation for the
non-U.S. plans is 47 percent equity securities, 46 percent fixed income
securities, 2 percent real estate and 5 percent other investments, which is
consistent with the allocation decisions made by the company s management and
is similar to the prior year weighted average target allocation. The table on page 118
details the actual allocations of equity, fixed income, real estate and all
other types of investments for non-U.S. plans. In some countries, a higher
percentage allocation to fixed income securities is required. In others, the
responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that
may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This
can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously
described. Generally, these non-U.S. plans do not invest in illiquid assets and
their use of derivatives is usually limited to currency hedging, adjusting
portfolio durations and reducing specific market risks. There was no
significant change in the investment strategies of these plans during either
2009 or 2008.  

The
company s nonpension postretirement benefit plans are underfunded or unfunded.
For some plans, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund
balance to ensure timely benefit payments.  

117    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN ASSETS   

The
following table presents the company s defined benefit pension plans  major
asset categories and their associated fair value at December 31, 2009. The
U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the Non-U.S. Plans consist of all
plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries.  

($ in millions)  

(a)              Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan
includes IBM common stock of $122 million, representing 0.3 percent of the U.S.
Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $45 million,
representing 0.1 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets.  

(b)             C  ommingled funds represent pooled institutional
investments.  

(c)              Invests in predominantly equity securities.  

(d)             Includes debt issued by national, state and local
governments and agencies.  

(e)              Invests in predominantly fixed income securities.  

(f)                Includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term
marketable securities.  

(g)             Includes limited partnerships and venture capital
partnerships.  

(h)             P  rimarily includes interest rate derivatives and, to a
lesser extent, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter
derivatives.  

(i)                 Invests in both equity and fixed income securities.  

(j)                 R  epresents net unsettled transactions, relating
primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets.  

The
U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $33 million were invested
in fixed income commingled/mutual funds, categorized as Level 1 in the fair
value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of
$104 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South
Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed income
securities, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  

The
company s asset allocations at December 31, 2008 were as follows:  

(a)              T  he Qualified PPP portfolio (U.S. Plan) included private
market assets comprising approximately 12.9 percent of total assets.  

(b)             E  quity securities included IBM common stock of $83
million, representing 0.2 percent of the Qualified PPP portfolio plan assets.  

118    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

The
following table presents the reconciliation of the beginning and ending
balances of Level 3 assets for the year ended December 31, 2009 for the U.S.
Plan:  

($ in millions)  

The
following table presents the reconciliation of the beginning and ending
balances of Level 3 assets for the year ended December 31, 2009 for the
non-U.S. Plans:  

($ in millions)  

VALUATION TECHNIQUES   

The
following is a description of the valuation techniques used to measure plan
assets at fair value. There were no changes in valuation techniques during 2009
and 2008.  

Equity
securities are valued at the closing price reported on the stock exchange on
which the individual securities are traded. IBM common stock is valued at the
closing price reported on the New York Stock Exchange. Equity commingled/mutual
funds are typically valued using the net asset value (NAV) provided by the
administrator of the fund and reviewed by the company. The NAV is based on the
value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus liabilities and divided
by the number of shares or units outstanding. These assets are classified as Level
1, Level 2 or Level 3 depending on availability of quoted market prices.  

The
fair value of fixed income securities is typically estimated using pricing
models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted
cash flows and are generally classified as Level 2. If available, they are
valued using the closing price reported on the major market on which the
individual securities are traded.  

Cash
includes money market accounts that are valued at their cost plus interest on a
daily basis, which approximates fair value. Short-term investments represent
securities with original maturities of one year or less. These assets are
classified as Level 1 or Level 2.  

Private
equity and private real estate partnership valuations require significant
judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of
liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These assets are initially
valued at cost and are reviewed periodically utilizing available and relevant
market data to determine if the carrying value of these assets should be
adjusted. These investments are classified as Level 3. The valuation
methodology is applied consistently from period to period.  

119    

Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Exchange
traded derivatives are valued at the closing price reported on the exchange on
which the individual securities are traded, while forward contracts are valued
using a mid-close price. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued
using pricing models. The models require a variety of inputs, including, for
example, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility and foreign
exchange rates. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 depending on
availability of quoted market prices.  

EXPECTED CONTRIBUTIONS   

DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLANS   

It
is the company s general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to
meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws
and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional
amounts as it deems appropriate.  

The
company contributed $1,252 million and $917 million in cash to non-U.S. plans,
including non-U.S. multi-employer plans, during the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008, respectively.  

In
2010, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S.
defined benefit pension plans. However, depending on market conditions, or
other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the
Qualified PPP during the year.  

The
Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006, is a
comprehensive reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension
funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides
guidelines for measuring pension plan assets and pension obligations for
funding purposes and raises tax deduction limits for contributions to
retirement-related benefit plans. The additional funding requirements by the Act
apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2007. The Act was updated
by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, which revised the
funding requirements in the Act by clarifying that the company may smooth the change
in value of pension plan assets over 24 months. At December 31, 2009, no
mandatory contribution is required for 2010.  

In
2010, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. plans to be
approximately $800 million, which will be mainly contributed to defined benefit
pension plans in Japan, the Netherlands, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. This
amount represents the legally mandated minimum contributions. Financial market
performance in 2010 could increase the legally mandated minimum contribution in
certain countries which require monthly or daily remeasurement of the funded
status. The company could also elect to contribute more than the legally
mandated amount based on market conditions or other factors.  

NONPENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS   

T  he
company contributed $293 million and $10 million to the nonpension
postretirement benefit plans during the years ended December 31, 2009 and
2008. These contribution amounts exclude the Medicare-related subsidy discussed
below.  

Expected Benefit Payments   

DEFINED BENEFIT PENSION PLAN EXPECTED PAYMENTS   

The
following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit
pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same
assumptions used to measure the plans  PBO at December 31, 2009 and
include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases, where
applicable.  

($ in millions)  

The
2010 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not
covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans) represent a component
of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position.  

120    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

NONPENSION POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLAN   

EXPECTED PAYMENTS   

The
following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension
postretirement benefit plan participants, as well as the expected receipt of
the company s share of the Medicare subsidy described below. These payments
have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plan s APBO
at December 31, 2009.  

($ in millions)  

The
2010 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan
participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of
compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement
of Financial Position.  

Medicare Prescription Drug Act   

In
connection with the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act
of 2003, the company is expected to continue to receive a federal subsidy of
approximately $229 million to subsidize the prescription drug coverage provided
by the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan, which is expected to extend
until 2013. Approximately $111 million of the subsidy will be used by the
company to reduce its obligation and cost related to the U.S. nonpension
postretirement benefit plan. The company will contribute the remaining subsidy
of $118 million to the plan in order to reduce contributions required by the
participants. The company received a total subsidy of $45 million for
prescription drug-related coverage during each of the years ended December 31,
2009 and 2008, which was utilized to reduce the company contributions to the U.S.
nonpension postretirement benefit plan.  

The
company has included the impact of its portion of the subsidy in the
determination of net periodic cost and APBO for the U.S. nonpension
postretirement benefit plan at and for the years ended December 31, 2009,
2008 and 2007. The impact of the subsidy resulted in a reduction in APBO of
$100 million and $127 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
The impact of the subsidy resulted in a reduction in 2009, 2008 and 2007 net
periodic cost of $28 million, $40 million and $36 million, respectively.  

Other Plan Information   

The
following table presents information for defined benefit pension plans with
accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) in excess of plan assets. For a more
detailed presentation of the funded status of the company s defined benefit
pension plans, see the table on page 113.  

($ in millions)  

121    

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Note V.    

   Segment Information   

The
company creates business value for clients and solves business problems through
integrated solutions that leverage information technology and deep knowledge of
business processes. IBM solutions typically create value by reducing a client s
operational costs or by enabling new capabilities that generate revenue. These
solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting, delivery and
implementation services, enterprise software, systems and financing.   

The company s major operations comprise: a Global Technology
Services segment; a Global Business Services segment; a Software segment; a Systems
and Technology segment; and a Global Financing segment. The segments represent
components of the company for which separate financial information is available
that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief executive officer in
determining how to allocate the company s resources and evaluate performance.
The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base,
homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic
characteristics.  

Information about each segment s business and the
products and services that generate each segment s revenue is located in the  Description
of Business  section of the Management Discussion on pages 20 to 25, and  Segment
Details,  on pages 25 to 31.  

Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions
between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer
price. Systems and software that is used by the Global Technology Services
segment in outsourcing engagements is primarily sourced internally from the Systems
and Technology and Software segments. For the internal use of IT services,
Global Technology Services and Global Business Services recover cost, as well
as a reasonable fee, reflecting the arm s-length value of providing the
services. The Global Services segments enter into arm s-length leases and loans
at prices equivalent to market rates with the Global Financing segment to
facilitate the acquisition of equipment used in services engagements. All
internal transaction prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate.  

The company utilizes globally integrated support
organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. As
a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the segments. This
shared expense includes sales coverage, marketing and support functions such as
Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections.
Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of
expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be
identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is
consistent with the company s management system; e.g., advertising expense is
allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. The unallocated corporate
amounts arising from certain divestitures, indirect infrastructure reductions,
miscellaneous tax items and the unallocated corporate expense pool are recorded
in net income but are not allocated to the segments.  

The following tables reflect the results of continuing
operations of the segments consistent with the company s management and
measurement system. These results are not necessarily a depiction that is in
conformity with GAAP. Performance measurement is based on pre-tax income. These
results are used, in part, by senior management, both in evaluating the
performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.  

122    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

INTERNATIONAL
  BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Management System Segment View   

($ in millions)  

123    

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Reconciliations of IBM as Reported   

($ in
millions)  

($ in millions)  

*                Includes
a provision related to a joint venture investment (2009 only); gains related to
the divestiture of the printing business (2007-2009), interest expense
associated with debt related to the 2007 accelerated share repurchase
(2007-2009); and gains related to the sale of Lenovo stock (2008 and 2007).  

Immaterial items   

Investment in Equity Alliances and Equity Alliances
Gains/(Losses)   

The
investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these
investments that are attributable to the segments did not have a material
effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments.  

Segment Assets and Other Items   

Global Technology
Services assets are primarily accounts receivable, plant, property and
equipment including those associated with the segment s outsourcing business,
goodwill, acquired intangible assets, deferred services arrangement transition
costs and maintenance parts inventory. Global Business Services assets are
primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Software segment assets are mainly
goodwill, acquired intangible assets and accounts receivable. Systems and Technology
assets are primarily plant, property and equipment, manufacturing inventory and
accounts receivable. The assets of the Global Financing segment are primarily
financing receivables and fixed assets under operating leases.  

To ensure the efficient use of the company s space and
equipment, it usually is necessary for several segments to share plant,
property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of
the assets is assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user
segment. This is consistent with the company s management system and is
reflected accordingly in the table below. In those cases, there will not be a
precise correlation between segment pre-tax income and segment assets.  

Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each
segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent
with the amounts that are included in the segments  pre-tax income. The amounts
that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord
segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system.
Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with
the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment.  

The Global Financing segment amounts for interest
income and interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense
associated with the Global Financing business, including the intercompany
financing activities discussed on page 24, as well as the income from
investment in cash and marketable securities. The explanation of the difference
between cost of financing and interest expense for segment presentation versus
presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on
page 60 of the Management Discussion.  

124    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

INTERNATIONAL
  BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Management System Segment View   

($ in millions)  

Reconciliations of IBM as Reported   

($ in millions)  

Major Clients   

No
single client represents 10 percent or more of the company s total revenue.  

Geographic Information   

The
following provides information for those countries that are 10 percent or more
of the specific category.  

Revenue*   

($ in
millions)  

*Revenues are attributed to countries based on location
of client.  

Net Plant, Property
and Equipment   

($ in
millions)  

125    

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Revenue by Classes of Similar Products or Services   

The
table presents external revenue for similar classes of products or services
within the company s reportable segments. Within Global Technology Services and
Global Business Services, client solutions often include IBM software and
systems and other suppliers  products if the client solution requires it.
Within Software, product license charges and ongoing subscription and support
are reported as Software and consulting, education, training and other
product-related services are reported as Services. Within Systems and Technology,
Microelectronics original equipment manufacturer (OEM) revenue is primarily
from the sale of semiconductors. Microelectronics Services revenue includes
circuit and component design services and technology and manufacturing
consulting services. See  Description of the Business  beginning on
page 20 for additional information.  The data is presented on a continuing
operations basis.  

($ in millions)  

Note W.   

   Subsequent Events   

On
January 20, 2010, the company announced that it signed a definitive
agreement to acquire National Interest Security Company, LLC (NISC). NISC, a
privately held company, will strengthen the company s ability to deliver
advanced analytics and IT solutions to the public sector. The transaction is
subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory reviews, and is
expected to be completed in the first quarter of 2010.  

On January 26, 2010, the
company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of
$0.55 per common share. The dividend is payable March 10, 2010 to
shareholders of record on February 10, 2010.  

On January 26, 2010, the
company announced that it completed the acquisition of Lombardi, a privately
held software company based in Austin, Texas. Lombardi is a leading provider of
business process management software and services. Lombardi will become a part
of the company s application integration software portfolio. At the date of
issuance of the financial statements, the initial purchase accounting was not
complete.  

On February 3, 2010, the
company announced that it signed a definitive agreement to acquire Initiate Systems.
Initiate Systems, a privately held company based in Chicago, Illinois is a
leading provider of data integrity software for information sharing among
healthcare and government organizations.  The transaction is subject to customary
closing conditions, including regulatory reviews, and is expected to be
completed in the first quarter of 2010.  

On
February 16, 2010, the company announced that it had completed the acquisition
of Intelliden Inc., a privately held software company based in Menlo Park,
California. Intelliden will extend the company s network management offerings.
At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the initial purchase
accounting was not complete.  

126    

Five-year Comparison of
Selected Financial Data   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($
in millions except per share amounts)  

*                    Reflects the adoption of the FASB
guidance in determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment
transactions are participating securities. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on
pages 79 to 82 for additional information. 

**             Reflects the adoption of the FASB
guidance in accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations. 

+                    Reflects the adoption of the FASB
guidance on noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements. See
note B,  Accounting Changes,  on pages 79 to 82 for additional
information. 

127    

Selected
Quarterly Data   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

($ in millions except per share
amounts and stock prices)  

*                    Earnings
Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed using the weighted-average number
of shares outstanding during that quarter while EPS for the full year is computed
using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the year. Thus,
the sum of the four quarter s EPS does not equal the full-year EPS. 

**             The
stock prices reflect the high and low prices for IBM s common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange composite tape for the last two years. 

+                    Reflects the adoption of the
FASB guidance in determining whether instruments granted in share-based payment
transactions are participating securities. See note B,  Accounting Changes,  on
pages 79 to 82 for additional information. 

128    

Performance Graphs   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Comparison of One-,
Five- and Ten-year Cumulative Total Return for IBM, S P 500 Stock Index and
S P Information Technology Index   

The
following graphs compare the one-, five- and ten-year cumulative total returns
for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain Standard  
Poor s (S P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the
S P 500 Stock Index, the SEC s rules require the use of that index for
the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the second index used for
comparison may be a published industry or line-of-business index. The S P
Information Technology Index is such an index. IBM is also included in this
index.  

Each graph assumes $100
invested on December 31 (of the initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common
stock and $100 invested on the same date in each of the S P indices. The
comparisons assume that all dividends are reinvested.  

One-year   

Five-year   

One-year   

129    

Performance
Graphs   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Ten-year   

Ten-year   

130    

Board of Directors and Senior Leadership   

  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND
SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

Board of Directors   

Alain J.P. Belda   
    Chairman   
    Alcoa Inc.   
    and  
    Managing Director   
    Warburg Pincus LLC  
         
     Cathleen Black    
    President   
    Hearst Magazines  
         
     William R. Brody    
    President   
    Salk Institute for Biological Studies  
       
     Kenneth I. Chenault    
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
    American Express Company  
       
     Michael L. Eskew    
    Retired Chairman and   
    Chief Executive Officer   
    United Parcel Service, Inc.  

Shirley Ann Jackson    
    President   
    Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  
       
     Andrew N. Liveris   
    Chairman, President and  
    Chief Executive Officer   
    The Dow Chemical Company  
       
     W. James McNerney, Jr.    
    Chairman, President and   
    Chief Executive Officer   
    The Boeing Company  

Taizo Nishimuro    
    Chairman   
    Tokyo Stock Exchange Group, Inc.  

James W. Owens     
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
    Caterpillar Inc.  
       
     Samuel J. Palmisano    
    Chairman, President and   
    Chief Executive Officer   
    IBM  
       
     Joan E. Spero    
    Visiting Fellow   
    Foundation Center  
       
     Sidney Taurel    
    Chairman Emeritus   
    Eli Lilly and Company  
         
     Lorenzo H. Zambrano    
    Chairman and   
    Chief Executive Officer   
    CEMEX, S.A.B. de C.V.  

Senior Leadership   

Rodney C. Adkins    
    Senior Vice President   
    Systems and Technology Group  

John E. Kelly III    
    Senior Vice President   
    Research and Intellectual Property  

Michael D. Rhodin    
    Senior Vice President   
    Software Solutions Group  

Colleen F. Arnold    
    Senior Vice President   
    Application Management Services  

R. Franklin Kern III    
    Senior Vice President   
    Global Business Services  

Virginia M. Rometty    
    Senior Vice President   
    Global Sales and Distribution  

Andrew Bonzani         
    Vice President,   
    Assistant General Counsel and   
    Secretary  

Robert J. LeBlanc    
    Senior Vice President   
    Software Middleware Group  

Linda S. Sanford    
    Senior Vice President   
    Enterprise Transformation  

Michael E. Daniels    
    Senior Vice President   
    Global Technology Services  

Mark Loughridge    
    Senior Vice President and   
    Chief Financial Officer  

Martin J. Schroeter    
    Treasurer  
       
     Timothy S. Shaughnessy    

Jesse J. Greene, Jr.         
    Vice President   
    Financial Management and   
    Chief Financial Risk Officer  

J. Randall MacDonald    
    Senior Vice President   
    Human Resources  
       
     Steven A. Mills    

Senior Vice President   
    Services Delivery  
       
     Robert C. Weber    
    Senior Vice President   

Jon C. Iwata    
    Senior Vice President   
    Marketing and Communications  

Senior Vice President   
    Software Group  
       
     Samuel J. Palmisano    

Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and   
    General Counsel  

James J. Kavanaugh         
    Vice President and Controller  

Chairman, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer  

131    

Stockholder Information   

  INTERNATIONAL
BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES  

IBM STOCKHOLDER SERVICES   

Stockholders
with questions about their accounts should contact:  

Computershare
Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43072, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3072
(888) IBM-6700  

Investors
residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781)
575-2727.  

Stockholders
can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at:
ibm@computershare.com  

Hearing-impaired
stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate
directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493.
Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should
call (781) 575-2694.  

IBM ON THE INTERNET   

Topics
featured in this Annual Report can be found via the IBM home page on the
Internet (http://www.ibm.com). Financial results, news on IBM products,
services and other activities can also be found via that address.  

Stockholders
of record can receive online account information and answers to frequently
asked questions regarding stockholder accounts via the Internet
(http://www.ibm.com/investor).  

Stockholders
of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports and Proxy
Statements online through the Internet at this site.  

IBM
files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current
reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC.  

IBM s
website (http://www.ibm.com) contains a significant amount of information about
IBM, including the company s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports
on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to
those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is
electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC (http:// www.ibm.com/investor).
These materials are available free of charge on or through our website.  

The
public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the
SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The
public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by
calling the SEC at 800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an Internet site
(http://www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements,
and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  

IBM INVESTOR SERVICES PROGRAM   

The
Investor Services Program brochure outlines a number of services provided for
IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of
dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for
safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing
outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  

Investors
with other requests may write to: IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road,
Armonk, New York 10504  

IBM STOCK   

IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock
Exchange, and outside the United States.  

ANNUAL MEETING   

The
IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 27,
2010, at 10 a.m. at the Midwest Airlines Center, 400 West Wisconsin
Avenue, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  

STOCKHOLDER COMMUNICATIONS   

Stockholders
in the United States and Canada can get quarterly financial results, listen to
a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks and hear voting results from the
meeting by calling (800) IBM-7800. Callers can also request printed copies of
the information via mail or fax. Stockholders residing outside the United
States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (402) 573-9861.  

LITERATURE FOR IBM STOCKHOLDERS   

The
following literature on IBM is available without charge from:  

Computershare
Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43072, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3072
(888) IBM-6700  

Investors
residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781)
575-2727.  

The
Form 10-K Annual Report and Form 10-Q Quarterly Reports to the SEC
provide additional information on IBM s business. The 10-K report is released
by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and
November.  

An
audio recording of the 2009 Annual Report will be available for sight-impaired
stockholders in June.  

The
IBM Corporate Responsibility Report details the company s distinct strategy,
results and key performance metrics in the areas of employees, communities,
environment, supply chain, public policy and governance. The report highlights
IBM s values-based leadership of IBMers, leadership that drives not just our
corporate social responsibility efforts, but also our hiring decisions, our
partnering strategy and our client engagements. The report is available in
printed form, online and downloadable at ibm.com/responsibility.  

GENERAL INFORMATION   

For
answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United
States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto
Rico, call (914)-499-1900.  

132    

CORPORATE OFFICES   

International
Business Machines Corporation, New Orchard Road, Armonk, New York 10504 (914)
499-1900  

The
IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable.  

CloudBurst,
Cognos, DataMirror, DataPower, Diligent Technologies, DS8000, IBM, ILOG,
InfoSphere, Jazz, Lotus, POWER, POWER6, POWER7, Rational, Smarter Planet, SPSS,
System i, System p, System x, System z, Tivoli, Watchfire, WebDialogs,
WebSphere, XIV and z10 are trademarks or registered trademarks of International
Business Machines Corporation or its 
wholly owned subsidiaries. Java is a trademark of Sun Microsystems, Inc.
Linux is a trademark of Linus Torvalds. UNIX is a registered trademark of The
Open Group in the United States  and
other countries. Other company product  and
service names may be trademarks or service marks of others.  

Printed
in the U.S.A. COL03002-USEN-00  

133    

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 8
 a2195966zex-21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 21            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES            

  Subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2009   

(A)    Minor
percentage held by other IBM shareholders subject to repurchase option.    

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 21   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 a2195966zex-23_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos.
2-77235, 33-29022, 33-33458, 33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815,
333-01411, 33-52931, 33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305,
333-41813, 333-44981, 333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751, 333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424,
333-33692, 333-36510, 333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327, 333-148964 and
333-151673) and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 333-03763, 333-27669, 333-32690,
333-101034, 333-145104 and 333-145104-01) of International Business Machines Corporation of our report dated February 23, 2010, relating to the financial statements and
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in the 2009 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We
also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated February 23, 2010, relating to the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

  /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 
New York, New York 
February 23, 2010   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 10
 a2195966zex-24_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.1

EXHIBIT 24.1   

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF SAMUEL J. PALMISANO   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of International
Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of
the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby
constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J.
Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto,
and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and
all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power
of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/
  Samuel J. Palmisano  

Samuel
  J. Palmisano  

Chairman
  of the Board, President  

and
  Chief Executive Officer  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF MARK LOUGHRIDGE   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of International Business
Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of
the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby
constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J.
Kavanaugh, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful
attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto,
and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and
all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/
  Mark Loughridge  

Mark
  Loughridge  

Senior
  Vice President and  

Chief
  Financial Officer  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF JAMES J. KAVANAUGH   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Vice President and Controller of International Business Machines Corporation, a
New York corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange
Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an
Annual Report for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints
Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., Mark Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano
and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each
of them with full power to act without the others, for him and in his name,
place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and
any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto
said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority
to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be
done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he
might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said
attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done
by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney
may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that
expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/
  James J. Kavanaugh  

James
  J. Kavanaugh  

Vice
  President and Controller  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse
J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano
and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the
undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without the
others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and
all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any
and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in
person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ Cathleen Black  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any
and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by
a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this
power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ William R. Brody  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any
and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ Michael L. Eskew  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto,
and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities
and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and
agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and
all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ Shirley Ann Jackson  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation,
which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C.,
under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2009 on Form 10-K,
hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani, Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James
J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J. Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true
and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned director, and each
of them with full power to act without the others, for such director and in his
or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign said 10-K
Annual Report and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other
documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full
power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and
necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and
purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming
all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or
cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This
Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the
undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and
subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ W. James McNerney, Jr.  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any
and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ Taizo Nishimuro  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and
all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ James W. Owens  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any
and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue
hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only
be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly
revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ Joan E. Spero  

Director  

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned
Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York
corporation, which will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report
for 2009 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Andrew Bonzani,
Jesse J. Greene, Jr., James J. Kavanaugh, Mark Loughridge, Samuel J.
Palmisano and Robert C. Weber as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents
for the undersigned director, and each of them with full power to act without
the others, for such director and in his or her name, place and stead, in any
and all capacities, to sign said 10-K Annual Report and any and all amendments
thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact
and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any
and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done in and about the
premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do
in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and
agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by
a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this
power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this
Power of Attorney this 23rd day of February 2010.  

/s/ Sidney Taurel  

Director  

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 11
 a2195966zex-24_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 24.2

EXHIBIT 24.2   

RESOLUTION REGARDING FILING OF THE FORM 10-K
ANNUAL REPORT   

RESOLVED, that the Form 10-K
Annual Report for the year 2009 be, and hereby is, approved and that the
Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to
execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K and to make such additions,
supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion may be necessary or
desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies.  

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 a2195966zex-31_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS 
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Samuel J. Palmisano, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date:
February 23, 2010   

/s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 a2195966zex-31_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Mark Loughridge, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements
made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the
financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and
15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of
the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to
adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over
financial reporting.    

Date:
February 23, 2010   

/s/ MARK LOUGHRIDGE 

Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 a2195966zex-32_1.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In
connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2009, as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Samuel J. Palmisano, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18
U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ SAMUEL J. PALMISANO 

Samuel J. Palmisano 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
February 23, 2010  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 a2195966zex-32_2.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for
the period ending December 31, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Mark Loughridge, Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer,
of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MARK LOUGHRIDGE 

Mark Loughridge 
Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
February 23, 2010  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 ibm-20091231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 ibm-20091231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 ibm-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 ibm-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 ibm-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 ibm-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

