<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170228_10-K_edgar_data_51143_0001047469-17-001061_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>37895734</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>750001</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1282288</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>10556644</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>15498562</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>7831481</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>183</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>22</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001047469-17-001061.hdr.sgml : 20170228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170228162336
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001047469-17-001061
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		190
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000051143
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	COMPUTER & OFFICE EQUIPMENT [3570]
		IRS NUMBER:				130871985
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-02360
		FILM NUMBER:		17647989

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD ROAD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9144991900

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1 NEW ORCHARD RD
		CITY:			ARMONK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10504

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001047469-17-001061.txt : 20170228

10-K
 1
 a2230222z10-k.htm
 10-K

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

UNITED STATES 
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION       WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549     

FORM 10-K       ANNUAL REPORT 
pursuant to Section 13 or 15 (d) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2016     

     1-2360       (Commission file number)   

    INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)   

914-499-1900       (Registrant's telephone number)   

   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.
Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the
past 90 days. Yes        No       

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to
be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No       

            Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.       

            Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the
definitions of "large accelerated filer," "accelerated filer" and "smaller reporting company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.   

Large accelerated filer      
     
  Accelerated filer      
     
  Non-Accelerated filer      

Smaller reporting company      

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)  

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2).
Yes        No       

            The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed
second fiscal quarter was $145.0 billion.   

  Documents
incorporated by reference:   

            Portions
of IBM's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2016 are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form 10-K.   

            Portions
of IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
to be held April 25, 2017 are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.   

PART I            

Item 1. Business:     

          International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) was incorporated in the State of New York on June 16, 1911, as the
Computing-Tabulating-Recording Co. (C-T-R), a consolidation of the Computing Scale Co. of America, the Tabulating Machine Co. and The International Time Recording Co. of New York. Since that time, IBM
has focused on the intersection of business insight and technological innovation, and its operations and aims have been international in nature. This was signaled over 90 years ago, in 1924, when
C-T-R changed its name to International Business Machines Corporation. And it continues today the company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage
data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities
for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT
implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software; all bolstered by one of the world's leading research organizations.   

Strategy     

          IBM has a history of continuous re-invention, transforming itself throughout its 100-plus year history. In the past five decades alone, IBM has
ushered in the eras of the mainframe, the personal computer, IT services and enterprise software. In its current transformation, IBM is once again leading the reordering of the technology industry.   

          A
number of years ago, the company declared its focus on the strategic forces behind the "digital" revolution; data, cloud and engagement, driven by mobile and social, and underpinned by
security. Since 2010, IBM has invested approximately $40 billion in these areas, built out the IBM Cloud on a global scale and extended cognitive systems to numerous enterprises and industries.
The company made 55 acquisitions and has formed partnerships with organizations that are leading players in key industries.   

Because
of this transformation, IBM today is much more than a hardware, software and services company; IBM is a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company, with a focus on industry
capabilities and expertise:   

            Cognitive Solutions:       With the highest level of intelligence that exists in technology systems, these solutions tackle challenges
ranging from
answering client inquiries to helping physicians fight cancer.   

Cloud Platform:       IBM Cloud is the leading cloud platform for the enterprise, providing what enterprises need for speed, agility and,
combined with
Watson, for cognitive capability.   

            Industry Focus:       As IBM brings higher levels of value to its clients, as its offerings are being built for the needs of individual
industries.
Healthcare and Financial Services are two examples of the company's initial cognitive focus.   

Cognitive Solutions     

          Since IBM's Watson was introduced in 2011, the company has been developing a new generation of cognitive systems that can see and analyze the
massive amounts of data that have previously been invisible to computers and enterprises. IBM's cognitive systems have the capability to inject a kind of thinking ability into every digitized object,
process and service, and learn from interactions. IBM is on the forefront of deploying these systems and helping clients to embrace the cognitive era.   

  1  

Cognitive
systems are not programmed; like humans, they learn from experts and from every interaction, and they are uniquely able to find patterns in big data. They learn by using
advanced algorithms to sense, predict and infer. Doing so, they augment human intelligence, allowing individuals to make faster and more informed decisions.   

          Since
Watson's debut, many technologies have entered the market under the banner of artificial intelligence. However, IBM's approach to cognitive systems is quite
unique:  

Highly adaptable intelligence systems: Watson has broad applicability and can help clients tackle challenges ranging from oncology to customer
support.   
            Protect and respect client data: Watson learns through data, both public data as well as clients' private data. Clients choose whether their
data or insights are shared. IBM respects the clients' ownership and control of their own data.   
            Easy entry points: Watson's open APIs offer easy on-ramps to experiment with speech, vision and other data.    
            Trained in domain depth: Watson is trained to be an expert in industries and functional specialties. It augments the knowledge of
professionals, giving them access to the insights of their best colleagues and the world's leading experts.   
            Transformational services: IBM's Cognitive Solutions and Watson Internet of Things (IoT) practices help clients build their cognitive
strategies. GBS provides outcome-focused methodologies, domain skills and deep industry expertise.    

Cloud Platform     

          Cloud represents more than a new architecture for delivering infrastructure and applications as services; it is also a catalyst for innovation,
speed and agility. Cloud enables companies to focus on differentiating their strategies, capabilities and business models rather than on the underlying technology.   

          The
IBM Cloud brings a unique set of characteristics to clients:  

It is a world-class cloud platform designed for enterprises, where security, reliability, scalability and performance are critical.    
            It is the industry-leading hybrid cloud, enabling clients to extend their existing IT investments, connecting valuable data and applications
across public and private clouds.   
            It is a world-class cognitive cloud platform with IBM Watson services that developers can embed into their applications to create
differentiating customer experiences and powerful insights.    

The
IBM Cloud has a strong global presence, with more than 50 cloud data centers around the world giving clients the flexibility to optimize the deployment of data and application, for
performance, security and compliance.   

          The
IBM Cloud is also continually expanding its base of advanced capabilities including cloud data services, cloud object storage, cloud video services, as well as Internet of Things,
blockchain and analytics services. In 2016, IBM brought new cognitive solutions to professionals in marketing, commerce, supply chain and human resources, extending industry clouds to further
differentiate its cloud offerings.   

Industry Focus     

          To bring higher value to clients, IBM is providing solutions that are specific and tailored to challenges clients face in their industry, using
the power of IBM's advanced cognitive computing   

  2  

capabilities
built on the IBM Cloud. In 2016, IBM deepened its commitment to delivering higher value in several key ways:  

In the healthcare industry, IBM Watson Health combines the power of cloud and cognitive with value-based solutions to optimize performance,
engage consumers, enable effective care and manage population health. Significant investment in the healthcare space, including the acquisition of Merge and Truven, has enabled the company to expand
the scope of solutions aimed at solving some of the most pressing health challenges.   
            IBM continues to partner with financial services clients to build a robust infrastructure addressing increasingly complex and fast-changing
demands. From preventing fraud to supporting cyber security efforts, IBM is becoming ever-more essential to the financial industry.   
            IBM offers analytics to help clients assess their risk and compliance against industry guidelines, and uses a cognitive approach to provide
deeper and faster findings. In late 2016, the company acquired Promontory Financial Group, LLC (Promontory), one of the world's leading regulatory consulting firms. Promontory is training
Watson to be a market-leading expert in the regulatory field, which will allow the company to deliver services at new levels of efficiency and transparency.   
            IBM is committed to blockchain to provide a highly secure method of facilitating multi-step transactions, reducing the number of disputes and
points of friction, including its participation in the Hyperledger Project. This cross-industry consortium is working to build the blockchain network in the cloud, doing for trusted transactions what
the Internet did for information, and setting industry standards for years to come. Blockchain will enable financial institutions to settle securities in minutes instead of days; manufacturers to
reduce product recalls by sharing production logs along their supply chain; and businesses of all types to more closely manage the flow of goods and payments. IBM is working with companies ranging
from retailers, banks and shippers to apply this technology to transform their ecosystems through open standards and open platforms.   
            IBM's Global Business Services consulting business, with broad expertise across industries and a strong global footprint and scale, provides a
unique combination of technologies and services to help clients achieve their business outcomes.    

Transforming Core Businesses     

          While the company is focused on cognitive solutions, cloud platform and industry, it is important to note cognitive, cloud and industry are
being embedded across IBM's offerings. These core businesses continue to run clients' most critical business processes. IBM's hardware systems are being designed from the ground up to power the cloud
and cognitive systems of the future. The company's technology services help clients move to the cloud, embedding cognitive capabilities tailored for their industry. The company's software offerings
are simultaneously being made available for the cloud as well as being connected to the cloud where our clients choose to keep them on premises. Additionally, cognitive capabilities are being added to
these offerings to provide new levels of innovation. In short, all of IBM is transforming to support the way its clients are transforming.   

Summary     

          Each transformation of IBM ushers in a new capability to the world. More than 50 years ago, IBM introduced the programmable era and
transformed the world's transactions through the mainframe. In the decades that followed, IBM commercialized the personal computer, created an industry around IT services and a software market around
middleware. Each of these innovations remains essential to business and the world today.   

  3  

The
company's current chapter is ushering in an entirely new era of human-computer interaction, embodied in cognitive solutions and the cloud platform for the needs of industries. The
company is embarking on an era where it will create new capabilities at speeds and depth never previously witnessed.   

Business Model     

          The company's business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to become more innovative, efficient and
competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments
in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.   

          The
company's global capabilities as a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of
businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions and platforms to the company's clients.   

          The
business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including the company's transformation into cloud and as-a-Service delivery
models. The company continues to strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas, strengthening its industry expertise and applying advanced
analytics across virtually all its offerings. In addition, the company is transforming into a more agile enterprise to drive innovation and speed, as well as helping to drive productivity, which
supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity.   

          This
business model, supported by the company's financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term.   

Business Segments and Capabilities     

          The company's major operations consist of five business segments: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services  
Cloud Platforms, Systems and Global Financing.   

             Cognitive Solutions    comprises a broad portfolio of capabilities that help IBM's clients to identify actionable new insights and inform
decision-making for competitive advantage. Leveraging IBM's research, technology and industry expertise, this business delivers a full spectrum of capabilities, from descriptive, predictive and
prescriptive analytics to cognitive systems. Cognitive Solutions includes Watson, the first commercially available cognitive computing platform that has the ability to interact in
natural language, process vast amounts of big data, and learn from interactions with people and computers. These solutions are provided through the most contemporary delivery methods including through
cloud environments and "as-a-Service" models. Cognitive Solutions consists of Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software.   

Cognitive Solutions Capabilities     

             Solutions Software:    provides the basis for many of the company's strategic areas including
analytics, security and social. IBM has established the world's deepest portfolio of data and analytics solutions, including analytics and data management platforms, cloud data services, enterprise
social software, talent management solutions, and solutions tailored by industry. Watson Platform, Watson Health and Watson Internet of Things capabilities are included in Solutions Software. IBM's
world-class security platform delivers integrated security intelligence across clients' entire operations, including their cloud, applications, networks and data, helping them to prevent, detect and
remediate potential threats.   

  4  

Transaction Processing Software:    includes software that primarily runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines
and retail. Most of this software is on-premise and annuity in nature.   

             Global Business Services (GBS)    provides clients with consulting, application management services and global process services. These
professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry, technology and business process expertise. GBS is the digital reinvention partner for
IBM clients, combining industry knowledge, functional expertise, and applications with the power of design, cognitive and cloud. The full portfolio of GBS services is backed by its globally integrated
delivery network and integration with IBM solutions and services including Watson, cloud, blockchain, and Technology Services. To deepen its capabilities, in 2016 IBM acquired four consulting and
design firms to enhance the GBS global network of 35 digital experience design studios. IBM also announced Watson IoT Consulting Solutions, a new practice that brings together IBM's industry and
technical expertise to help clients introduce IoT innovation into their businesses.   

GBS Capabilities   

             Consulting:    provides business consulting services focused on bringing to market solutions that help clients shape their
digital blueprints and customer experiences, define their cognitive operating models, set their next-generation talent strategies and create new technology visions and architectures in a cloud-centric
world.   

             Application Management:    delivers system integration, application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as
well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as security and privacy, application testing and modernization, cloud application migration and
automation.   

             Global Process Services:    GBS' business process outsourcing service line, delivers finance, procurement, HR, and industry-specific business
processes. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client's business processes, applications and infrastructure. GBS is
redefining the efficiency and cost profiles of clients' core processes through the application of the power of Watson, cognitive and deep analytics.   

             Technology Services   Cloud Platforms    provides comprehensive IT infrastructure services creating business value for clients through
integrated services that incorporate unique intellectual property within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM's global scale, skills and technology, with
applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes.   

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms Capabilities   

             Infrastructure Services:    delivers a portfolio of cloud, project-based, outsourcing and other managed services focused on
clients' enterprise IT infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation and deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The portfolio includes a
comprehensive set of hybrid cloud services and solutions to assist clients in building and running enterprise IT environments that utilize public and private clouds and traditional IT. The IBM Cloud
Platform offers leading edge services to developers and IBM's Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service covers a wide variety of workloads with unprecedented performance. These offerings integrate
long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to utilize the power of new technologies, including those from other IBM business segments. The portfolio is built around
a key set of predictive and proactive solutions addressing systems, mobility, resiliency, networking, cloud and security. The company's capabilities, including IBM Cloud, cognitive computing
and hybrid cloud implementation, can help to deliver high-performance, end-to-end innovation and an improved ability to achieve business objectives.   

  5  

Technical Support Services:    delivers a comprehensive line of support services to maintain and improve the availability of clients' IT
infrastructures. These offerings include maintenance for IBM products and other technology platforms, as well as software and solution support.   

             Integration Software:    delivers industry-leading hybrid cloud solutions that empower clients to achieve rapid innovation, hybrid
integration, and process transformation with choice and consistency across public, dedicated and local cloud environments, leveraging IBM's Bluemix Platform-as-a-Service solution. Integration Software
offerings and capabilities help clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses.   

             Systems    provides clients with innovative infrastructure technologies to help meet the new requirements of hybrid cloud and cognitive
workloads from deploying advanced analytics, to moving to digital service delivery with the cloud, and securing mobile transaction processing. Approximately half of Systems Hardware's
server and storage sales transactions are through the company's business partners, with the balance direct to end-user clients. IBM Systems also designs advanced semiconductor and systems technology
in collaboration with IBM Research, primarily for use in the company's systems.   

Systems Capabilities   

             Servers:    a range of high-performance systems designed to address computing capacity, security and performance needs of
businesses, hyperscale cloud service providers and scientific computing organizations. The portfolio includes z Systems, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight,
and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data and analytics, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER.   

          The
company is a founding member of the OpenPOWER foundation, a group of industry-leading companies developing high-performance compute technologies and solutions based on the IBM POWER
architecture.   

             Storage:    data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital
information and to fuel data-centric cognitive applications. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization
including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software-defined storage solutions, flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions.   

             Operating Systems Software:    The company's z/OS is a security-rich, scalable, high-performance enterprise operating system for z Systems.
Power Systems offers a choice of AIX or Linux operating systems. These operating systems leverage POWER architecture to deliver secure, reliable and high- performing enterprise-class workloads across
a breadth of server offerings.   

             Global Financing    facilitates IBM clients' acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing
solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users' business operations. These
financing contracts are entered into after a comprehensive credit evaluation and are secured by legal contracts. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its
client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks, credit and residual value, associated with
financing while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with the companies' clients through various stages of IT asset life cycle from
initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions.   

  6  

Global Financing Capabilities   

             Client Financing:    lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to
seven years. Assets financed are primarily new and used IT hardware, software and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Technology
Services   Cloud Platforms' long-term client service contracts. All internal financing arrangements are at arm's-length rates and are based upon market conditions.   

             Commercial Financing:    short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to suppliers, distributors and remarketers of IBM and OEM
products. This includes internal activity where Global Financing factors a selected portion of the company's accounts receivable primarily for cash management purposes, at arm's-length rates.   

             Remanufacturing and Remarketing:    assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used and surplus equipment acquired
internally or externally. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents
sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology Services   Cloud
Platforms. Systems may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients.   

IBM Worldwide Organizations     

          The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM's delivery of value to its clients:  

Global Markets (formerly Sales and Distribution)   
            Research, Development and Intellectual Property   
            Integrated Supply Chain    

Global Markets     

          IBM has a global presence, operating in more than 175 countries with a broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company's Global
Markets organization manages IBM's global footprint, working closely with dedicated country-based operating units to serve clients locally. These country teams have client relationship managers who
lead integrated teams of consultants, solution specialists and delivery professionals to enable clients' growth and innovation. These local teams develop deep relationships with their clients to bring
together capabilities from IBM and its network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions.   

By
complementing local expertise with global experience and digital capabilities, IBM builds broad-based client relationships. This local management focus fosters speed in addressing new
markets and making investments in emerging opportunities. The Global Markets organization serves clients with expertise in their industry as well as through the products and services that IBM and
partners supply. IBM is also expanding its reach to smaller clients through digital marketing, digital marketplaces, inside sales and local Business Partner resources.   

          IBM
continues to invest to capture opportunities in key growth markets around the world India, China and Southeast Asia; Eastern Europe; the Middle East and Africa; and Latin
America. Major IBM markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.), as well as Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the
Caribbean, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.   

  7  

Research, Development and Intellectual Property      

          IBM's research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests 6 to 7 percent of
total revenue for R D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company's business units through global labs on near-term and midterm innovations. It
contributes many new technologies to IBM's portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research scientists are conducting pioneering work in artificial
intelligence, analytics, security, nanotechnology, cloud computing, blockchain, quantum computing, silicon and post-silicon computing architectures, data-centric systems and more applying
these technologies across industries including healthcare, Internet of Things, education and financial services.   

In
2016, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 24th consecutive year. IBM's 8,088 patents awarded in 2016 represent a diverse range of inventions in
artificial intelligence and cognitive computing, cognitive health, cloud, cybersecurity and other strategic growth areas for the company.   

          The
company continues to actively seek intellectual property (IP) protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership.
Some of IBM's technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. As part of its business
model, the company licenses certain of its intellectual property, which is high-value technology, but may be in more mature markets. The licensee drives the future development of the IP and ultimately
expands the customer base. This generates IP income for the company both upon licensing, and with ongoing royalty arrangements between it and the licensee. While the company's various proprietary IP
rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or
is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products.   

Integrated Supply Chain      

          IBM has an extensive integrated supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. Additionally, growth in client spend managed by IBM's
procurement organization continues to demonstrate clients' faith that IBM can reduce clients' cost through the transformation of source-to-pay operations. The supply, manufacturing and logistics
operations are seamlessly integrated and have optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and
efficiency. Supply chain resiliency enables IBM to reduce its risk during marketplace changes.   

The
company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages
its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients' end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to
logistics. Utilizing analytics, mobile, cloud and social with numerous projects, has allowed the integrated supply chain to drive positive business outcomes for the company and its
clients.   

  8  

COMPETITION     

          The company is a globally-integrated enterprise, operating in more than 175 countries. The company participates in a highly competitive
environment, where its competitors vary by industry segment, and range from large multinational enterprises to smaller, more narrowly focused entities. Overall, across its business segments, the
company recognizes hundreds of competitors worldwide.   

          Across
its business, the company's principal methods of competition are: technology innovation; performance; price; quality; brand; its broad range of capabilities, products and
services; client relationships; the ability to deliver business value to clients; and service and support. In order to maintain leadership, a corporation must continue to invest, innovate and
integrate. The company has been executing a strategy to transform its business, including shifting to higher value market segments and offerings and increasing its capabilities through organic
investments, partnerships and strategic acquisitions. As the company executes its strategy, it has entered into new markets, such as cloud and cognitive, including business analytics and
"as-a-service" solutions, which exposes the company to new competitors. Overall, the company is the leader or among the leaders in each of its business segments.   

A
summary of the competitive environment for each business segment is included below:   

Cognitive Solutions:      

          The Cognitive Solutions segment leads the burgeoning market for artificial intelligence infused software solutions. Increasingly, technology
companies are looking to implement software solutions that will take advantage of the massive amounts of data businesses hold in order to improve business outcomes for their clients. The Watson
platform is integrated throughout the Cognitive Solutions segment. Watson is the first commercially available cognitive computing capability, representing a new era in computing. Delivered through the
cloud, the platform analyzes high volumes of data, understands complex questions posed in natural language, and proposes evidence-based answers. Watson continuously learns in three ways: by being
taught by its users, by learning from prior interactions, and by being presented with new information.   

          Its
key competitive factors include a wide range of powerful cognitive services from conversation services and machine vision to deep learning. IBM is unique amongst its
competitors in providing transparency so users and decision makers can see the data sources and training methods and thus have confidence in the recommendations. The insights produced by IBM's
cognitive systems are trained and designed for specific industries including Health, Financial Services, Education, Retail and others.   

Specifically,
Cognitive Solutions includes solutions software, delivered both on-premise and "as-a-service", and transaction processing software. The solutions software portfolio, which
spans Watson data management, analytics, security, and social capabilities, provides comprehensive business and industry-specific offerings to IT decision makers. IT buyers include chief information
officers as well as line of business buyers, such as chief marketing and procurement officers, chief information security officers and chief financial officers. The transaction processing software
portfolio, mostly delivered on-premise, runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail.   

The
depth and breadth of the software offerings, coupled with the company's global markets and technical support infrastructure, differentiate its capabilities from its competitors. The
company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio also contribute to its differentiation. The company's principal competitors in this segment include Alphabet
Inc. (Google), Amazon.com, Inc. (Amazon) Cisco Systems, Inc. (Cisco), Microsoft Corporation (Microsoft), Oracle Corporation (Oracle), Salesforce.com and SAP. The company also competes with
smaller, niche competitors in specific geographic or product markets worldwide.   

  9  

Global Business Services and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms:      

          The company's services segments, Global Business Services and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, operate in a highly competitive and
continually evolving global market. The principal competitive factors in these business segments include: technical skills and capabilities, innovative service and product offerings, industry
knowledge and experience, value and speed, price, client relationships, quality of sales and delivery, reliability, security and the availability of resources. The company's competitive advantages in
these businesses include its global reach and scale, global delivery model, best-of-breed process and industry skills, extensive technology expertise, services assets, an ability to deliver integrated
solutions that can address clients' needs in any environment and with a strong set of relationships with clients and strategic business partners worldwide.   

Global Business Services:      

          GBS competes in consulting, systems integration, application management and business process outsourcing services. The company competes with
broad based competitors including: Accenture, Capgemini, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Google, Hewlett-Packard (HPE) and Microsoft; India-based service providers; the consulting practices of
public accounting firms; and many companies that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.   

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms:      

          Technology Services   Cloud Platforms competes in strategic outsourcing, cloud services, and a wide range of technical and IT support services.
The company competes with broad based competitors including: Accenture, Amazon, Computer Sciences Corporation, Fujitsu, Google, HPE and Microsoft; India-based service providers; and many companies
that primarily focus on local markets or niche service areas.   

          This
segment also includes the company's Integration Software offerings. Integration Software helps clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their
applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses. The company competes with Amazon,
BMC, Microsoft, Oracle, VMWare as well as companies that primarily focus on niche solutions and offerings.   

Systems:      

          The enterprise server and storage market is characterized by competition in technology and service innovation focused on value, function,
reliability, price and cost performance. The company's principal competitors include Dell Technologies, HPE, Intel, Pure Storage, Oracle, and lower cost original device manufacturer systems that are
often re-branded. Also, alternative as-a-service providers are leveraging innovation in technology and service delivery both to compete with traditional providers and to offer new routes to market for
server and storage systems. These alternative providers include Amazon, Google, Microsoft, and IBM's own cloud-based services.   

The
company gains advantage and differentiation through investments in higher value capabilities from semiconductor through software stack innovation that
increase efficiency, lower cost and improve performance. The company's research and development capabilities and intellectual property patent portfolio contribute significantly to this segment's
leadership across areas as diverse as high performance computing, virtualization technologies, software optimization, power management, security, multi-operating system capabilities and open
technologies like interconnect standards to be leveraged by broad ecosystems.   

  10  

Global Financing:      

          Global Financing provides client financing, commercial financing and participates in the remarketing of used equipment. Global Financing's
access to capital and its ability to manage increased exposures provide a competitive advantage for the company. The key competitive factors include price, IT product expertise, client service,
contract flexibility, ease of doing business, global capabilities and residual values. In client and commercial financing, Global Financing competes with three types of companies in providing
financial services to IT customers: other captive financing entities of IT companies such as Cisco and HP, non-captive financing entities of companies such as General Electric Company and banks or
financial institutions. In remarketing, the company competes with local
and regional brokers plus original manufacturers in the fragmented worldwide used IT equipment market.   

Forward-looking and Cautionary Statements     

          Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Reform Act"). Forward-looking statements are based on the company's current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements by their
nature address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. The company may also make forward-looking statements in other reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in materials
delivered to stockholders and in press releases. In addition, the company's representatives may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements provide current
expectations of future events based on certain assumptions and include any statement that does not directly relate to any historical or current fact. Words such as "anticipates," "believes,"
"expects," "estimates," "intends," "plans," "projects," and similar expressions, may identify such forward-looking statements. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-K speaks only as of
the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements. In accordance with the Reform Act, set forth under Item 1A. "Risk Factors" on
pages 12 to 18 are cautionary statements that accompany those forward-looking statements. Readers should carefully review such cautionary statements as they identify certain important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements and from historical trends. Those cautionary statements are not exclusive and are in addition to other
factors discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K, in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission or in materials incorporated therein by reference.   

The
following information is included in IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference:   

          Segment
information and revenue by classes of similar products or services pages 150 to 154.   

          Financial
information by geographic areas page 154.   

          Amount
spent during each of the last three years on R D activities page 132.   

Financial
information regarding environmental activities page 123.   

          The
number of persons employed by the registrant page 76.   

          The
management discussion overview pages 27 to 30.   

          Available
information page 159.   

  Also
refer to Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors" in Part I of this Form.   

  11  

Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 28, 2017):     

Age    
     
   Officer since    

Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer*  

59  

2005  

Michelle H. Browdy, Senior Vice President, Legal and Regulatory Affairs, and General Counsel  

52  

2015  

Erich Clementi, Senior Vice President, IBM Global Markets  

58  

2010  

Robert F. Del Bene, Vice President and Controller  

57  

2017  

Diane J. Gherson, Senior Vice President, Human Resources  

59  

2013  

James J. Kavanaugh, Senior Vice President, Transformation and Operations  

50  

2008  

John E. Kelly III, Senior Vice President, IBM Cognitive Solutions and IBM Research  

63  

2000  

Kenneth M. Keverian, Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy  

60  

2014  

Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

52  

2014  

*    Member
of the Board of Directors.     

All
executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors annually as provided in the By-laws. Each executive officer named above, with the exception of Kenneth M. Keverian, has been
an executive of IBM or its subsidiaries during the past five years.   

          Mr.
Keverian was a Senior Partner at the Boston Consulting Group, a global management consulting firm, until joining IBM in 2014. He was with Boston Consulting Group for 26 years and he
focused on serving technology companies in the computing and communications sectors.   

Item 1A. Risk Factors:            

             Downturn in Economic Environment and Client Spending Budgets could impact the Company's
Business:    If overall demand for IBM's products and solutions decreases, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in client buying patterns, the company's revenue
and profit could be impacted.   

             The Company may not meet its Growth and Productivity Objectives under its Internal Business Transformation and Global Integration
Initiatives:    On an ongoing basis, IBM seeks to drive greater agility, productivity, flexibility and cost savings by transforming and globally integrating its own business
processes, functions and technologies to remain competitive and to enable scaling of resources and offerings in both emerging and more established markets. These various initiatives may not yield
their intended gains in speed, quality, productivity and enablement of rapid scaling, which may impact the company's competitiveness and its ability to meet its growth and productivity objectives.   

             Failure of Innovation Initiatives could impact the Long-Term Success of the Company:    IBM has been moving away from certain segments of the
IT industry and into areas in which it can differentiate itself through innovation, by leveraging its investments in R D and attracting a successful developer ecosystem. If IBM is unable to continue
its cutting-edge innovation in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving environment or is unable to commercialize such innovations, expand and scale them with sufficient speed and versatility, the
company could fail in its ongoing efforts to maintain and increase its market share and its profit margins. In addition, IBM has one of the strongest brand names in the world, and its brand and
overall reputation could be negatively impacted by many factors, including if the company does not continue to be recognized for its industry-leading technology and solutions and as a cognitive
leader. If the company's brand image is tarnished by negative perceptions, its ability to attract and retain customers could be impacted.   

Risks from Investing in Growth Opportunities could impact the Company's Business:    The company continues to invest significantly in its
strategic imperatives to drive revenue growth and market share   

  12  

gains.
Client adoption rates and viable economic models are less certain in the high-value, highly competitive, and rapidly-growing segments, and new delivery models may unfavorably impact demand and
profitability for our other products or services. In addition, as the company expands to capture emerging growth opportunities, it needs to rapidly secure the appropriate mix of trained, skilled and
experienced personnel, and develop ecosystems and collaborative partnerships. In emerging growth countries, the developing nature presents potential political, social, legal and economic risks from
evolving governmental policy, inadequate infrastructure, creditworthiness of customers and business partners, labor disruption and corruption, which could impact the company's ability to meet its
growth objectives and to deliver to its clients around the world.   

             IBM's Intellectual Property Portfolio may not prevent Competitive Offerings, and IBM may not be able to Obtain Necessary Licenses:    The
company's patents and other intellectual property may not prevent competitors from independently developing products and services similar to or duplicative to the company's, nor can there be any
assurance that the resources invested by the company to protect its intellectual property will be sufficient or that the company's intellectual property portfolio will adequately deter
misappropriation or improper use of the company's technology. In addition, the company may be the target of aggressive and opportunistic enforcement of patents by third parties, including
non-practicing entities. Also, there can be no assurances that IBM will be able to obtain from third parties the licenses it needs in the future. The company's ability to protect its intellectual
property could also be impacted by changes to existing laws, legal principles and regulations governing intellectual property, including the ownership and protection of patents.   

             Cybersecurity and Privacy Considerations could impact the Company's Business:    The company's products, services, and systems may affect
critical third party operations or involve the storage, processing and transmission of sensitive data, including valuable intellectual property, other proprietary or confidential data, regulated data,
and personal information of employees, customers and others. In the current environment there are numerous and evolving risks to cybersecurity and privacy, including criminal hackers, hacktivists,
state-sponsored intrusions, industrial espionage, employee malfeasance, and human or technological error. As a global enterprise, the regulatory environment with regard to cybersecurity, privacy and
data protection issues is increasingly challenging and may have impacts on the company's business, including increased risk, costs, and expanded compliance obligations. As the company's business focus
on data grows, the potential impact of these vulnerabilities and regulations on the company's business, risks, and reputation may grow accordingly. The General Data Protection Regulation that will
come into force in the European Union in May 2018 will cause the company to incur additional compliance costs.   

          Computer
hackers and others routinely attempt to breach the security of technology products, services and systems, and to fraudulently induce employees, customers, or others to disclose
information or unwittingly provide access to systems or data. The risk of such attacks to the company includes attempted breaches not only of our own products, services and systems, but also those of
customers,
contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties. Successful breaches, employee malfeasance, or human or technological error could result in, for example, unauthorized access to,
disclosure, modification, misuse, loss, or destruction of company, customer, or other third party data or systems; theft of sensitive, regulated, or confidential data including personal information
and intellectual property; the loss of access to critical data or systems through ransomware or other attacks; and business delays, service or system disruptions or denial of service. In the event of
such actions, the company, its customers or other third parties could be exposed to potential liability, litigation, and regulatory or other government action, as well as the loss of existing or
potential customers, damage to brand and reputation, and other financial loss. In addition, the cost and operational consequences of responding to breaches and implementing remediation measures could
be significant. The company experiences and responds to cybersecurity threats, although none has had a material adverse effect on the company to date. As the company's business and the cybersecurity   

  13  

landscape
evolve, the company may also find it necessary to make significant further investments to protect data and infrastructure. Cybersecurity risk to the company and its customers will also
depend on factors such as actions, practices and investments of customers, contractors, business partners, vendors and other third parties. Cyber attacks or other catastrophic events resulting in
disruptions to or failures in power, information technology, communication systems or other critical infrastructure could result in interruptions or delays to company, customer, or other third party
operations or services, financial loss, injury to persons or property, potential liability, and damage to brand and reputation.   

             The Company's Financial Results for Particular Periods are Difficult to Predict:    IBM's revenues are affected by such factors as the
introduction of new products and services, our ability to compete effectively in increasingly competitive marketplaces, the length of the sales cycles and the seasonality of technology purchases.
Moreover, the company's strategic imperatives involve new products, new customers, new and evolving competitors, and new markets, all of which contribute to the difficulty of predicting the company's
financial results. The company's financial results may also be impacted by the structure of products and services contracts and the nature of its customers' businesses; for example, certain of the
company's services contracts with commercial customers in regulated industries are subject to periodic review by regulators with respect to controls and processes. As a result of the above-mentioned
factors, the company's financial results are difficult to predict. Historically, the company has had lower revenue in the first quarter than in the immediately preceding fourth quarter. In addition,
the high volume of products typically ordered at the end of each quarter, especially at the end of the fourth quarter, may affect IBM's ability to successfully ship all orders before the end of the
quarter.   

             Due to the Company's Global Presence, its Business and Operations could be impacted by Local Legal, Economic, Political and Health
Conditions:    The company is a globally integrated entity, operating in over 175 countries worldwide and deriving more than sixty percent of its revenues from sales outside the
United States. Changes in the laws or policies of the countries in which the company operates, or inadequate enforcement of laws or policies, could affect the company's business and the company's
overall results of operations. The company's results of operations also could be affected by economic
and political changes in those countries and by macroeconomic changes, including recessions, inflation, currency fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and non-U.S. currencies and adverse changes in
trade relationships amongst those countries. Further, as the company expands its customer base and the scope of its offerings, both within the U.S. and globally, it may be impacted by additional
regulatory or other risks. In addition, any widespread outbreak of an illness, pandemic or other local or global health issue or uncertain political climates, international hostilities, natural
disasters, or any terrorist activities, could adversely affect customer demand and the company's operations and its ability to source and deliver products and services to its customers.   

             The Company could incur Substantial Costs for Environmental Matters:    The company is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign
laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise related to environmental protection, including the U.S. Superfund law. The company could incur substantial
costs, including cleanup costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions, as well as third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, if it were to violate or become liable under environmental
laws and regulations. Compliance with environmental laws and regulations is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the company's financial position, results of operations and competitive
position.   

             Tax Matters could impact the Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition:    The company is subject to income taxes in both the
United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. IBM's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability in the future could be adversely affected by numerous factors including, but not limited to,
income before taxes being lower than anticipated in countries with lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in countries with higher statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of
deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in tax laws, regulations, accounting principles or interpretations thereof, which could adversely impact the company's results of   

  14  

operations
and financial condition in future periods. The Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) is issuing guidelines that are different, in some respects, than long-standing
international tax principles. As countries unilaterally amend their tax laws to adopt certain parts of the OECD guidelines, this may increase tax uncertainty and may adversely impact the company's
income taxes. Local country, state, provincial or municipal taxation may also be subject to review and potential override by regional, federal, national or similar forms of government. In addition,
IBM is subject to the continuous examination of its income tax returns by the United States Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities around the world. The company regularly assesses the
likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of its provision for income taxes. There can be no assurance that the outcomes from these examinations will
not have an adverse effect on the company's provision for income taxes and cash tax liability.   

             The Company's Results of Operations and Financial Condition could be negatively impacted by its U.S. and non-U.S. Pension Plans:    Adverse
financial market conditions and volatility in the credit markets may
have an unfavorable impact on the value of the company's pension trust assets and its future estimated pension liabilities. As a result, the company's financial results in any period could be
negatively impacted. In addition, in a period of an extended financial market downturn, the company could be required to provide incremental pension plan funding with resulting liquidity risk which
could negatively impact the company's financial flexibility. Further, the company's results could be negatively impacted by premiums for mandatory pension insolvency insurance coverage outside the
United States. Premium increases could be significant due to the level of insolvencies of unrelated companies in the country at issue. IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information
about potential impacts from pension funding and the use of certain assumptions regarding pension matters.   

             Ineffective Internal Controls could impact the Company's Business and Operating Results:    The company's internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations, including the possibility of human error, the circumvention or overriding of controls, or fraud. Even effective
internal controls can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements. If the company fails to maintain the adequacy of its internal
controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if the company experiences difficulties in their implementation, the company's business and operating results could
be harmed and the company could fail to meet its financial reporting obligations.   

             The Company's Use of Accounting Estimates involves Judgment and could impact the Company's Financial Results:    The application of generally
accepted accounting principles requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported financial condition. The company's most
critical accounting estimates are described in the Management Discussion in IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, under "Critical Accounting Estimates." In addition, as discussed in note M,
"Contingencies and Commitments," in IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, the company makes certain estimates including decisions related to legal proceedings and reserves. These estimates and
assumptions involve the use of judgment. As a result, actual financial results may differ.   

             The Company Depends on Skilled Personnel and could be impacted by the loss of Critical Skills:    Much of the future success of the company
depends on the continued service, availability and integrity of skilled personnel, including technical, marketing and staff resources. Skilled and experienced personnel in the areas where the company
competes are in high demand, and competition for their talents is intense. Changing demographics and labor work force trends may result in a loss of or insufficient knowledge and skills. In addition,
as global opportunities and industry demand shifts, realignment, training and scaling of skilled resources may not be sufficiently rapid or successful. Further, many of IBM's key personnel receive a
total compensation package that includes equity awards. Any new regulations, volatility in the stock market and other factors could diminish the   

  15  

company's
use, and the value, of the company's equity awards, putting the company at a competitive disadvantage or forcing the company to use more cash compensation.   

             The Company's Business could be impacted by its Relationships with Critical Suppliers:    IBM's business employs a wide variety of
components, supplies, services and raw materials from a substantial number of suppliers around the world. Certain of the company's businesses rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, and
with the completion of GLOBALFOUNDRIES' acquisition of IBM's global commercial semiconductor business in 2015, it became IBM's exclusive server processor technology provider for certain
semiconductors. Changes in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of these suppliers could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring products to market. Further, the
failure of the company's suppliers to deliver components, supplies, services and raw materials in sufficient quantities, in a timely manner, and in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations
could adversely affect the company's business. In addition, any defective components, supplies or materials, or inadequate services received from suppliers could reduce the reliability of the
company's products and services and harm the company's reputation.   

             Product Quality Issues could impact the Company's Business and Operating Results:    The company has rigorous quality control standards and
processes intended to prevent, detect and correct errors, malfunctions and other defects in its products and services. If errors, malfunctions, defects or disruptions in service are experienced by
customers, there could be negative consequences that could impact customers' business operations and harm the company's business's operating results.   

             The Company could be impacted by its Business with Government Clients:    The company's customers include numerous governmental entities
within and outside the U.S., including the U.S. Federal Government and state and local entities. Some of the company's agreements with these customers may be subject to periodic funding approval.
Funding reductions or delays could adversely impact public sector demand for our products and services. Also, some agreements may contain provisions allowing the customer to terminate without cause
and providing for higher liability limits for certain losses. In addition, the company could be suspended or debarred as a governmental contractor and could incur civil and criminal fines and
penalties, which could negatively impact the company's results of operations and financial results.   

             The Company is exposed to Currency and Financing Risks that could impact its Revenue and Business:    The company derives a significant
percentage of its revenues and costs from its affiliates operating in local currency environments, and those results are affected by changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies and the U.S.
dollar. Further, inherent in the company's financing business are risks related to the concentration of credit, client creditworthiness, interest rate and currency fluctuations on the associated debt
and liabilities, the determination of residual values and the financing of other than traditional IT assets. The company employs a number of strategies to manage these risks, including the use of
derivative financial instruments, which involve the risk of non-performance by the counterparty.
In addition, there can be no assurance that the company's efforts to manage its currency and financing risks will be successful.   

The Company's Financial Performance could be impacted by Changes in Market Liquidity Conditions and by Customer Credit Risk on
Receivables:    The company's financial performance is exposed to a wide variety of industry sector dynamics worldwide. The company's earnings and cash flows, as well as its
access to funding, could be negatively impacted by changes in market liquidity conditions. IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders includes information about the company's liquidity position. The
company's client base includes many worldwide enterprises, from small and medium businesses to the world's largest organizations and governments, with a significant portion of the company's revenue
coming from global clients across many sectors. Most of the company's sales are on an open credit basis, and the company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its clients' financial conditions. If
the company becomes aware of information related to the creditworthiness of a major customer, or, if   

  16  

future
actual default rates on receivables in general differ from those currently anticipated, the company may have to adjust its allowance for credit losses, which could affect the company's
consolidated net income in the period the adjustments are made.   

             The Company's Reliance on Third Party Distribution Channels and Ecosystems could impact its Business:    The company offers its products
directly and through a variety of third party distributors, resellers and ecosystem partners. Changes in the business condition (financial or otherwise) of these distributors, resellers and ecosystem
partners could subject the company to losses and affect its ability to bring its products to market. As the company moves into new areas, distributors, resellers and ecosystem partners may be unable
to keep up with changes in technology and offerings, and the company may be unable to recruit and enable appropriate partners to achieve growth objectives. In addition, the failure of third party
distributors, resellers and ecosystem partners to comply with all applicable laws and regulations may prevent the company from working with them and could subject the company to losses and affect its
ability to bring products to market.   

             Risks to the Company from Acquisitions, Alliances and Dispositions include Integration Challenges, Failure to Achieve Objectives, and the Assumption of
Liabilities:    The company has made and expects to continue to make acquisitions, alliances and dispositions. Acquisitions and alliances present significant challenges and risks
relating to the integration of the business into the company, and there can be no assurances that the company will manage acquisitions and alliances successfully or that strategic acquisition
opportunities will be available to the company on acceptable terms or at all. The related risks include the company failing to achieve strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and
cost savings, as well as the failure to retain key personnel of the acquired business and the assumption of liabilities related to litigation or other legal proceedings involving the acquired
business. From time to time, the company disposes or attempts to dispose of assets that are no longer central to its strategic objectives. Any such disposition or attempted disposition is subject to
risks, including risks related to
the terms and timing of such disposition, risks related to obtaining necessary governmental or regulatory approvals and risks related to retained liabilities not subject to the company's control.   

The Company is Subject to Legal Proceedings Risks:    As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175
countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary
course of its business. The risks associated with such legal proceedings are described in more detail in note M, "Contingencies and Commitments," in IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders.
The company believes it has adopted appropriate risk management and compliance programs. Legal and compliance risks, however, will continue to exist and additional legal proceedings and other
contingencies, the outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty, may arise from time to time.   

Risk Factors Related to IBM Securities:    The company and its subsidiaries issue debt securities in the worldwide capital markets from time
to time, with a variety of different maturities and in different currencies. The value of the company's debt securities fluctuates based on many factors, including the methods employed for calculating
principal and interest, the maturity of the securities, the aggregate principal amount of securities outstanding, the redemption features for the securities, the level, direction and volatility of
interest rates, changes in exchange rates, exchange controls, governmental and stock exchange regulations and other factors over which the company has little or no control. The company's ability to
pay interest and repay the principal for its debt securities is dependent upon its ability to manage its business operations, as well as the other risks described under this Item 1A. entitled
"Risk Factors." There can be no assurance that the company will be able to manage any of these risks successfully.   

          The
company also issues its common stock from time to time in connection with various compensation plans, contributions to its pension plan and certain acquisitions. The market price of   

  17  

IBM
common stock is subject to significant volatility, due to other factors described under this Item 1A. entitled "Risk Factors," as well as economic and geopolitical conditions generally,
trading volumes, speculation by the press or investment community about the company's financial condition, and other factors, many of which are beyond the company's control. Since the market price of
IBM's common stock fluctuates significantly, stockholders may not be able to sell the company's stock at attractive prices.   

          In
addition, changes by any rating agency to the company's outlook or credit ratings can negatively impact the value and liquidity of both the company's debt and equity securities. The
company does not
make a market in either its debt or equity securities and cannot provide any assurances with respect to the liquidity or value of such securities.   

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments:            

          Not applicable.   

Item 2. Properties:            

          At December 31, 2016, IBM's manufacturing and development facilities in the United States had aggregate floor space of 8 million
square feet, of which 7 million was owned and 1 million was leased. Similar facilities in 16 other countries totaled 6 million square feet, of which 2 million was owned and
4 million was leased. The company's facilities are utilized for current operations of all its segments.   

          Although
improved production techniques, productivity gains, divestitures and infrastructure reduction actions have resulted in reduced manufacturing floor space, continuous maintenance
and upgrading of facilities is essential to maintain technological leadership, improve productivity and meet customer demand.   

Item 3. Legal Proceedings:            

          Refer to note M, "Contingencies and Commitments," on pages 127 to 129 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is
incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures:            

          Not applicable.   

  18  

PART II            

Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of  Equity Securities:   

          Refer
to pages 156 and 159 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference solely as they relate to this item.   

          IBM
common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. There were 425,272 common stockholders of record at February 10, 2017.   

The
following table provides information relating to the company's repurchase of common stock for the fourth quarter of 2016.   

(1)    On
October 27, 2015, the Board of Directors authorized $4.0 billion in funds for use in the company's common stock repurchase program. On October 25,
2016, the Board of Directors authorized an additional $3.0 billion in funds for use in such program. In each case, the company stated that it would repurchase shares on the open market or in
private transactions depending on market conditions. The common stock repurchase program does not have an expiration date. This table does not include shares tendered to satisfy the exercise price in
connection with cashless exercises of employee stock options or shares tendered to satisfy tax withholding obligations in connection with employee equity awards.     

Item 6. Selected Financial Data:            

Refer to pages 155 and 156 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations:            

          Refer to pages 26 through 81 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk:            

          Refer to the section titled "Market Risk" on pages 74 and 75 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated
herein by reference.   

  19  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data:            

          Refer to pages 84 through 154 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to the
Financial Statement Schedule on page S-1 of this Form 10-K.   

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial  Disclosure:   

          Not
applicable.   

Item 9A. Controls and Procedures:            

          The company's management evaluated, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of the
company's disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that
the company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.   

          Refer
to "Report of Management" and "Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" on pages 82 and 83 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are
incorporated herein by reference. There has been no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.   

Item 9B. Other Information:            

          Due to retirement, Joan E. Spero will not stand for re-election at the company's annual meeting of stockholders on April 25, 2017. As a
result, Article III, Section 2 of the company's By-Laws was amended to decrease the number of directors to thirteen, effective April 25, 2017. The full text of IBM's By-Laws, as
amended effective April 25, 2017, is included as Exhibit 3.2 to this report.   

  20  

PART III            

Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Election of Directors for a Term of One Year," "General Information Committees of the
Board," "General Information Audit Committee" and "2016 Director Compensation Narrative Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance" in IBM's definitive
Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017, all of
which information is incorporated herein by reference. Also refer to Item 1 of this Form 10-K under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant (at February 28, 2017)" on
page 12 for additional information on the company's executive officers.   

Item 11. Executive Compensation:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "2016 Director Compensation Narrative," "2016 Director Compensation
Narrative 2016 Director Compensation Table," "2016 Compensation Discussion and Analysis," "2016 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," "2016 Summary Compensation Table," "2016 Grants of
Plan-Based Awards Table," "2016 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Narrative," "2016 Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End Table," "2016 Option Exercises and Stock Vested Table,"
"2016 Retention Plan Narrative," "2016 Retention Plan Table," "2016 Pension Benefits Narrative," "2016 Pension Benefits Table," "2016 Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Narrative," "2016 Nonqualified
Deferred Compensation Table," "2016 Potential Payments Upon Termination Narrative," "2016 Potential Payments Upon Termination Table," "General Information Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation" and "Executive Compensation 2016 Report of the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors" in IBM's definitive Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017, all of which
information is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder  Matters:            

          Refer to the information under the caption "Ownership of Securities Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" and "Ownership
of Securities Common Stock and Stock-based Holdings of Directors and Executive Officers" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and
delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017, all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  21  

EQUITY COMPENSATION PLAN INFORMATION     

N/A
is not applicable   

  RSUs =
Restricted Stock Units, including Retention Restricted Stock Units   

  PSUs =
Performance Share Units   

  DCEAP
Shares = Promised Fee Shares under the DCEAP (see plan description below)   

(1)    In
connection with 39 acquisition transactions, 604,784 additional share based awards, consisting of stock options, were outstanding at December 31, 2016 as a
result of the Company's assumption of awards granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these awards was $33.16. The Company has not made, and will not make, any further
grants or awards of equity securities under the plans of these acquired companies.
      (2)    The
numbers included for PSUs in column (a) above reflect the maximum number payout. Assuming target number payout, the number of securities to be issued upon
exercise of PSUs for equity compensation plans approved by security holders is 2,763,800 and for equity compensation plans not approved by security holders is 110,958. For additional information about
PSUs, including payout calculations, refer to the information under "2016 Summary Compensation Table Narrative," in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017.     

The
material features of each equity compensation plan under which equity securities are authorized for issuance that was adopted without stockholder approval are described below:   

2001 Long-Term Performance PIan     

          The 2001 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "2001 Plan") has been used to fund awards for employees other than senior executives of the Company.
Awards for senior executives of the Company have been and will continue to be funded from the stockholder-approved 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan (the "1999 Plan"); the 1999 Plan is also used to fund
awards for employees other than senior   

  22  

executives,
Otherwise, the provisions of the 2001 Plan are identical to the 1999 Plan, including the type of awards that may be granted under the plan (stock options, restricted stock and unit awards
and long-term performance incentive awards).   

          The
2001 Plan is administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the "Committee"), and that Committee may delegate to officers of
the company certain of its duties, powers and authority. Payment of awards may be made in the form of cash, stock or combinations thereof and may be deferred with Committee approval. Awards are not
transferable or assignable except (i) by law, will or the laws of descent and distribution, (ii) as a result of the disability of the recipient, or (iii) with the approval of the
Committee.   

          If
the employment of a participant terminates, other than as a result of the death or disability of a participant, all unexercised, deferred and unpaid awards shall be canceled
immediately, unless the award agreement provides otherwise. In the event of the death of a participant or in the event a participant is deemed by the company to be disabled and eligible for benefits
under the terms of the
IBM Long-Term Disability Plan (or any successor plan or similar plan of another employer), the participant's estate, beneficiaries or representative, as the case may be, shall have the rights and
duties of the participant under the applicable award agreement. In addition, unless the award agreement specifies otherwise, the Committee may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or
restrict any unexpired, unpaid, or deferred award at any time if the participant is not in compliance with all applicable provisions of the awards agreement and the 2001 Plan. In addition, awards may
be cancelled if the participant engages in any conduct or act determined to be injurious, detrimental or prejudicial to any interest of the company.   

PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan     

          The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan (the "PWCC Plan") was adopted by the Board of Directors in connection with the company's
acquisition of PricewaterhouseCoopers Consulting ("PwCC") from PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, as announced on October 1, 2002. The PWCC Plan has been and will continue to be used solely to
fund awards for employees of PwCC who have become employed by the company as a result of the acquisition. Awards for senior executives of the company will not be funded from the PWCC Plan. The terms
and conditions of the PWCC Plan are substantively identical to the terms and conditions of the 2001 Plan, described above.   

IBM Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan     

          The IBM Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan (the "DCEAP") was adopted in 1993 and amended and restated effective January 1, 2014.
Under the Amended and Restated DCEAP, non-management directors receive Promised Fee Shares in connection with deferred annual retainer payments. Each Promised Fee Share is equal in value to one share
of the company's common stock. Upon a director's retirement or other completion of service as a director, amounts deferred into Promised Fee Shares are payable in either cash and/or shares of the
company's stock either as lump sum or installments pursuant to the director's distribution election. For additional information about the DCEAP, see "2016 Director Compensation Narrative" in IBM's
definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017.   

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "General Information IBM Board of Directors" and "General
Information Certain Transactions and Relationships" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection
with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017, which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  23  

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services:            

          Refer to the information under the captions "Report of the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors" and "Audit and Non-Audit Fees" in IBM's
definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017,
all of which information is incorporated herein by reference.   

  24  

PART IV            

Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules:            

(a)    The
following documents are filed as part of this report:

1.    Financial
statements from IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, which are incorporated herein by reference:    

Report
of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (page 83).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (page 84).   

Consolidated
Statement of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (page 85).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 and 2015 (page 86).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (page 87).   

  Consolidated
Statement of Changes in Equity at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 (pages 88 and 89).   

Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements (pages 90 through 154).    

2.    Financial
statement schedule required to be filed by Item 8 of this Form:    

Page

Schedule 
Number    

34  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule.  

S-1  

II  
     
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.  

All
other schedules are omitted as the required matter is not present, the amounts are not significant or the information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or the notes
thereto.    

3.    Exhibits:    

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

(2)  
     
  Plan of acquisition, reorganization, arrangement, liquidation or succession.   
     
  Not applicable  

(3)  
      
   Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws.   

The Certificate of Incorporation of IBM is Exhibit 3.2 to Form 8-K filed April 27, 2007, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The By-laws of IBM, as amended through April 26, 2016, is Exhibit 3.2(b) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, and is hereby incorporated by reference.   

The By-laws of IBM, as amended effective April 25, 2017.   
      
   3.2  

(4)  
      
   Instruments defining the rights of security holders.   

25  

26  

27  

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

The IBM PWCC Acquisition Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-102872 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1999 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-30424 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM 1997 Long-Term Performance Plan, a compensatory plan, contained in Registration Statement No. 333-31305 on Form S-8, as such amended plan was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2007, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Forms of LTPP equity award agreements for (i) stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash-settled restricted stock units, SARS and (ii) retention restricted stock unit awards. Such equity
award agreement forms and the related terms and conditions document, effective June 9, 2014, were filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2014, are hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Form of LTPP equity award agreement for performance share units was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Terms and Conditions of LTPP equity award agreements was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Board of Directors compensatory plans, as described under the caption "General Information 2016 Director Compensation" in IBM's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
and delivered to stockholders in connection with the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 2017, are hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Non-Employee Directors Stock Option Plan, contained in Registration Statement 33-60227 on Form S-8, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Board of Directors Deferred Compensation and Equity Award Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2014, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2013, and is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

The IBM Supplemental Executive Retention Plan, a compensatory plan, as amended and restated through December 31, 2008, which was filed as Exhibit 10.2 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2008, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

28  

29  

Reference 
Number per 
Item 601 of 
Regulation S-K    
     
   Description of Exhibits    
     
   Exhibit Number 
in this 
Form 10-K    

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Form of Noncompetition Agreement, filed as Exhibit 10.3 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2016, is hereby incorporated by reference.*  

Form of Noncompetition Agreement.   
      
   10.1  

Letter dated December 4, 2008, signed by Erich Clementi and IBM, effective January 1, 2009.   
      
   10.2  

Letter dated January 28, 2015, signed by Martin Jetter and IBM, effective February 1, 2015.   
      
   10.3  

The $10,000,000 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 10, 2011, among International Business Machines Corporation, the Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank,
 N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the Syndication and Documentation Agents named therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to Form 8-K dated November 14, 2011, the term of which was extended through November 10, 2020, is hereby
incorporated by reference.   

First Amendment, dated as of October 16, 2014, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement, among International Business Machines Corporation, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Subsidiary Borrowers
parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto and the Syndication Agents and Documentation Agents therein, which was filed as Exhibit 10.4 to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2014, is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

Second Amendment, dated as of October 21, 2016, to the 5-Year Credit Agreement, among International Business Machines Corporation, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Subsidiary Borrowers
parties thereto, the Lenders parties thereto and the Syndication Agents and Documentation Agents therein.   
      
   10.4  

Agent Letter dated October 21, 2016 from JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent to the Five-Year Credit Agreement (as amended), confirming the extension of the Termination Date of the Five-Year Credit
Agreement to November 10, 2021, with Schedule 1 reflecting Revolving Credit Commitments of $10,250,000,000.   
      
   10.5  

(11)  
      
   Statement re computation of per share earnings  

The statement re computation of per share earnings is note [P], "Earnings Per Share of Common Stock," on page 132 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, and is hereby incorporated by
reference.   

30  

*    Management
contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
      **    The
Performance Graphs, set forth on page 157 of IBM's 2016 Annual Report to Stockholders, are deemed to be furnished but not filed.    

Item 16.    Form 10-K Summary:            

          None.   

  31  

SIGNATURES            

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.   

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION    (Registrant)  

By:  
      
   /s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty     Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive Officer   

Date: February 28, 2017   

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.   

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty  
     
          Chairman of the Board, 
President and Chief Executive 
Officer  
     
  February 28, 2017  

/s/ MARTIN J. SCHROETER 

Martin J. Schroeter  

Senior Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer  

February 28, 2017  

/s/ ROBERT F. DEL BENE 

Robert F. Del Bene  

Vice President and Controller 
(Chief Accounting Officer)  

February 28, 2017  

Kenneth I. Chenault  
      
   Director  
      
   By:  
      
   /s/ CHRISTINA M. MONTGOMERY 

Christina M. Montgomery  

Michael L. Eskew  
     
  Director  

Attorney-in-fact    
February 28, 2017  

David N. Farr  
     
  Director  

Mark Fields  
      
   Director  

Alex Gorsky  
      
   Director  

Shirley Ann Jackson  
      
   Director  

Andrew N. Liveris  
      
   Director  

W. James McNerney, Jr.  
      
   Director  

Hutham S. Olayan  
      
   Director  

James W. Owens  
      
   Director  

Joan E. Spero  
      
   Director  

Sidney Taurel  
      
   Director  

Peter R. Voser  
      
   Director  

32  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE            

  To
the Stockholders and Board of Directors of 
International Business Machines Corporation:   

          Our
audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated February 28, 2017
appearing in the 2016 Annual Report to Shareholders of International Business Machines Corporation (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.   

  /s/
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
New York, New York 
February 28, 2017   

  33  

SCHEDULE II            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES   VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES   For the Years Ended December 31:   (Dollars in Millions)

*    Additions
for Allowance for Credit Losses and Allowance for Inventory Losses are charged to expense and cost accounts, respectively, while Revenue Based Provisions are
charged to revenue accounts.
      **    See
Note A, "Significant Accounting Policies," on Exhibit 13 to Form 10-K, page 98 in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
additional information regarding allowance for credit loss write-offs.
      ***    Primarily
comprises currency translation adjustments.    

S-1  

QuickLinks    
  PART I   

Item 1A. Risk Factors   
  Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments   
  Item 2. Properties   
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings   
  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures   

PART II   
 
  Item 5. Market for the Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
  Item 6. Selected Financial Data   
  Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
  Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures   
  Item 9B. Other Information   
 
  PART III   
 
  Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
 
  PART IV   
 
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules   
  Item 16. Form 10-K Summary   

SIGNATURES   
 
  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE   

SCHEDULE II   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES For the Years Ended December 31: (Dollars in Millions)   

<EX-3.2>
 2
 a2230222zex-3_2.htm
 EX-3.2

Exhibit 3.2   
     
  BY-LAWS  
     
  of  
     
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION  
     
  Adopted April 29,1958  
     
  As Amended Through  
     
  April 25, 2017  

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

ARTICLE I     Definitions       
 
  1           

ARTICLE II     MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS       

SECTION    1.       
 
  Place of Meetings       
 
  1           

SECTION    2.       
 
  Annual Meetings       
 
  1           

SECTION    3.       
 
  Special Meetings       
 
  2           

SECTION    4.       
 
  Notice of Meetings       
 
  2           

SECTION    5.       
 
  Quorum       
 
  2           

SECTION    6.       
 
  Organization       
 
  3           

SECTION    7.       
 
  Items of Business       
 
  3           

SECTION    8.       
 
  Voting       
 
  5           

SECTION    9.       
 
  List of Stockholders       
 
  5           

SECTION 10.       
 
  Inspectors of Election       
 
  5           

ARTICLE III     BOARD OF DIRECTORS       

SECTION    1.       
 
  General Powers       
 
  6           

SECTION    2.       
 
  Number; Qualifications;   Election; Term of Office       
 
  6           

SECTION    3.       
 
  Place of Meetings       
 
  6           

SECTION    4.       
 
  First Meeting       
 
  6           

SECTION    5.       
 
  Regular Meetings       
 
  6           

SECTION    6.       
 
  Special Meetings       
 
  7           

SECTION    7.       
 
  Notice of Meetings       
 
  7           

SECTION    8.       
 
  Quorum and Manner of   Acting       
 
  7           

SECTION    9.       
 
  Organization       
 
  7           

SECTION 10.       
 
  Resignations       
 
  7           

SECTION 11.       
 
  Vacancies       
 
  8           

SECTION 12.       
 
  Retirement of Directors       
 
  8           

ARTICLE IV     EXECUTIVE AND OTHER COMMITTEES       

SECTION    1.       
 
  Executive Committee       
 
  8           

SECTION    2.       
 
  Powers of the Executive   Committee       
 
  9           

SECTION    3.       
 
  Meetings of the   Executive Committee       
 
  9           

SECTION    4.       
 
  Quorum and Manner of Acting   of the Executive Committee       
 
  9           

SECTION    5.       
 
  Other Committees       
 
  9           

SECTION    6.       
 
  Changes in Committees;   Resignations; Removals; Vacancies       
 
  10              
     
 i   

ii   

BY-LAWS  
     
  OF  
     
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION  
     
  ARTICLE I  
     
  DEFINITIONS  
     
  In these By-laws, and for all purposes hereof, unless there be something in the subject or context inconsistent therewith:  
     
  (a)  Corporation  shall mean International Business Machines Corporation.  
     
  (b)  Certificate of Incorporation  shall mean the restated Certificate of Incorporation as filed on May 27, 1992, together with any and all amendments and subsequent restatements thereto.  
     
  (c)   Board  shall mean the Board of Directors of the Corporation.  
     
  (d)  stockholders  shall mean the stockholders of the Corporation.  
     
  (e)  Chairman of the Board ,  Vice Chairman of the Board ,  Chairman of the Executive Committee ,  Chief Executive Officer,   Chief Financial Officer ,  Chief Accounting Officer ,  President ,  Executive Vice President ,  Senior Vice President ,  Vice President ,  Treasurer ,  Secretary , or  Controller , as the case may be, shall mean the person at any given time occupying the particular office with the Corporation.  
     
  ARTICLE II  
     
  MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS  
     
  SECTION 1.  Place of Meetings.  Meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such place either within or outside the State of New York as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or specified or fixed in the notice of any such meeting.  
     
  SECTION 2.  Annual Meetings.  The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation for the election of directors and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting shall be held on the last Tuesday of April of each year, if not a legal holiday, or, if such day shall be a legal holiday, then on the next succeeding day not a legal holiday, or any other day as determined by the Board. If the directors to be elected at such annual meeting shall not have been elected thereat or at any adjournment thereof, the Board shall forthwith call a special meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors to be held as soon thereafter as convenient and give notice thereof as provided in these By-laws in respect of the notice of an  
     
 1   

annual meeting of the stockholders. At such special meeting the stockholders may elect the directors and transact other business with the same force and effect as at an annual meeting of the stockholders duly called and held.  
     
  SECTION 3.  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the stockholders, unless otherwise provided by law, may be called at any time by the Chairman of the Board or by the Board, and shall be called by the Board upon written request delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation by the holder(s) with the power to vote and dispose of at least 25% of the outstanding shares of the Corporation.  Such request shall be signed by each such holder, stating the number of shares owned by each holder, and shall indicate the purpose of the requested meeting.  In addition, any stockholder(s) requesting a special meeting shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.  
     
  SECTION 4.  Notice of Meetings.  Notice of each meeting of the stockholders, annual or special, shall be given in the name of the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President or the Secretary.  Such notice shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called and the date and hour when and the place where it is to be held. A copy thereof shall be duly delivered or transmitted to all stockholders of record entitled to vote at such meeting, and all stockholders of record who, by reason of any action proposed to be taken at such meeting, would be entitled to have their stock appraised if such action were taken, not less than ten or more than sixty days before the day on which the meeting is called to be held. If mailed, such copy shall be directed to each stockholder at the address listed on the record of stockholders of the Corporation, or if the stockholder shall have filed with the Secretary a written request that notices be mailed to some other address, it shall be mailed to the address designated in such request. Nevertheless, notice of any meeting of the stockholders shall not be required to be given to any stockholder who shall waive notice thereof as hereinafter provided in Article IX of these By-laws. Except when expressly required by law, notice of any adjourned meeting of the stockholders need not be given nor shall publication of notice of any annual or special meeting thereof be required.  
     
  SECTION 5.  Quorum.  Except as otherwise provided by law, at all meetings of the stockholders, the presence of holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of stock of the Corporation having voting power, in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, shall be necessary to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In the absence of a quorum at any such meeting or any adjournment or adjournments thereof, a majority in voting interest of those present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat, or, in the absence of all the stockholders, any officer entitled to preside at, or to act as secretary of, such meeting, may adjourn such meeting from time to time without further notice, other than by announcement at the meeting at which such adjournment shall be taken, until a quorum shall be present thereat. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum shall be present any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called.  
     
 2   

SECTION  6.  Organization.  At each meeting of the stockholders, the Chairman of the Board, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the President, or in the absence of the Chairman of the Board and the President, a Vice Chairman of the Board, or if the Chairman of the Board, the President, and all Vice Chairmen of the Board shall be absent therefrom, an Executive Vice President, or if the Chairman of the Board, the President, all Vice Chairmen of the Board and all Executive Vice Presidents shall be absent therefrom, a Senior Vice President shall act as chairman. The Secretary, or, if the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting or unable to act, the person whom the Chairman of such meeting shall appoint secretary of such meeting shall act as secretary of such meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  
     
  SECTION  7.   Items of Business.  The items of business at all meetings of the stockholders shall be, insofar as applicable, as follows:  
     
     Call to order. 
     
     Proof of notice of meeting or of waiver thereof. 
     
     Appointment of inspectors of election, if necessary. 
     
     A quorum being present. 
     
     Reports. 
     
     Election of directors proposed by the Corporation s Board of Directors, as set forth in the Corporation s proxy statement. 
     
     Other business specified in the notice of the meeting. 
     
     Voting. 
     
     Adjournment. 
     
  Any items of business not referred to in the foregoing may be taken up at the meeting as the chairman of the meeting shall determine.  
     
  No other business shall be transacted at any annual meeting of stockholders, except business as may be: (i) specified in the notice of meeting (including stockholder proposals included in the Corporation s proxy materials under Rule 14a-8 of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934), (ii) otherwise brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) a proper subject for the meeting which is timely submitted by a stockholder of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting who complies fully with the notice requirements set forth below.  
     
 3   

For business to be properly submitted by a stockholder before any annual meeting under subparagraph (iii) above, a stockholder must give timely notice in writing of such business to the Secretary of the Corporation.  To be considered timely, a stockholder s notice must be received by the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not less than 120 calendar days nor more than 150 calendar days before the anniversary date of the Corporation s proxy statement released to stockholders in connection with the prior year s annual meeting.  
     
  However, if no annual meeting was held in the previous year, or if the date of the applicable annual meeting has been changed by more than 30 days from the anniversary date of the prior year s annual meeting, a stockholder s notice must be received by the Secretary not later than the 10th calendar day following the date on which the Corporation publicly announces the date of the applicable annual meeting.  
     
  A stockholder s notice to the Secretary to submit business to an annual meeting of stockholders shall set forth: (i) the name and address of the stockholder, (ii) the number of shares of stock held of record and beneficially by such stockholder, (iii) the name in which all such shares of stock are registered on the stock transfer books of the Corporation, (iv) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear at the meeting in person or by proxy to submit the business specified in such notice, (v) a brief description of the business desired to be submitted to the annual meeting, including the complete text of any resolutions intended to be presented at the annual meeting, and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting, (vi) any personal or other material interest of the stockholder in the business to be submitted,  and (vii) all other information relating to the proposed business which may be required to be disclosed under applicable law.   In addition, a stockholder seeking to submit such business at the meeting shall promptly provide any other information reasonably requested by the Corporation.  
     
  The chairman of the meeting shall determine all matters relating to the efficient conduct of the meeting, including, but not limited to, the items of business, as well as the maintenance of order and decorum. The chairman shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare that any putative business was not properly brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures prescribed by this Section 7, in which case such business shall not be transacted.  
     
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 7, a stockholder who seeks to have any proposal included in the Corporation s proxy materials shall comply with the requirements of Rule 14a-8 under Regulation 14A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
     
 4   

SECTION 8.  Voting.  Except as otherwise provided by law, each holder of record of shares of stock of the Corporation having voting power shall be entitled at each meeting of the stockholders to one vote for every share of such stock standing in the stockholder s name on the record of stockholders of the Corporation:  
     
  (a) on the date fixed pursuant to the provisions of Section 5 of Article VII of these By-laws as the record date for the determination of the stockholders who shall be entitled to vote at such meeting, or  
     
  (b) if such record date shall not have been so fixed, then at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice of such meeting shall have been given, or  
     
  (c) if such record date shall not have been so fixed and if no notice of such meeting shall have been given, then at the time of the call to order of such meeting.  
     
  Any vote on stock of the Corporation at any meeting of the stockholders may be given by the stockholder of record entitled thereto in person or by proxy appointed by such stockholder or by the stockholder s attorney thereunto duly authorized and delivered or transmitted to the secretary of such meeting at or prior to the time designated in the order of business for turning in proxies. At all meetings of the stockholders at which a quorum shall be present, all matters (except where otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws) shall be decided by the vote of a majority in voting interest of the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat.  Unless required by law, or determined by the chairman of the meeting to be advisable, the vote on any question need not be by ballot. On a vote by ballot, each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by the stockholder s proxy as such, if there be such proxy.  
     
  SECTION 9.  List of Stockholders.  A list, certified by the Secretary, of the stockholders of the Corporation entitled to vote shall be produced at any meeting of the stockholders upon the request of any stockholder of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of applicable law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws.  
     
  SECTION  10.   Inspectors of Election.   Prior to the holding of each annual or special meeting of the stockholders, two inspectors of election to serve thereat shall be appointed by the Board, or, if the Board shall not have made such appointment, by the Chairman of the Board. If there shall be a failure to appoint inspectors, or if, at any such meeting, any inspector so appointed shall be absent or shall fail to act or the office shall become vacant, the chairman of the meeting may, and at the request of a stockholder present in person and entitled to vote at such meeting shall, appoint such inspector or inspectors of election, as the case may be, to act thereat. The inspectors of election so appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of their duties, shall be sworn faithfully to execute the duties of inspectors at such meeting, with strict impartiality and according to the best of their ability, and the oath so taken shall be subscribed by them. Such inspectors of election shall take charge of the  
     
 5   

polls, and, after the voting on any question, shall make a certificate of the results of the vote taken. No director or candidate for the office of director shall act as an inspector of an election of directors. Inspectors need not be stockholders.  
     
  ARTICLE III  
     
  BOARD OF DIRECTORS  
     
  SECTION 1.  General Powers.  The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board. The Board may exercise all such authority and powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws, directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.  
     
  SECTION 2.  Number; Qualifications; Election; Term of Office.  The number of directors of the Corporation shall be thirteen, but the number thereof may be increased to not more than twenty-five, or decreased to not less than nine, by amendment of these By-laws. The directors shall be elected at the annual meeting of the stockholders. At each meeting of the stockholders for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, the vote required for election of a director shall, except in a contested election, be the affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such nominee.  In a contested election, a nominee receiving a plurality of the votes cast at such election shall be elected.  An election shall be considered to be contested if, as of the record date for such meeting, there are more nominees for election than positions on the Board to be filled by election at the meeting.  Each director shall hold office until the annual meeting of the stockholders which shall be held next after the election of such director and until a successor shall have been duly elected and qualified, or until death, or until the director shall have resigned as hereinafter provided in Section 10 of this Article III.  
     
  SECTION 3.  Place of Meetings.  Meetings of the Board shall be held at such place either within or outside State of New York as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or specified or fixed in the notice of any such meeting.  
     
  SECTION 4.  First Meeting.  The Board shall meet for the purpose of organization, the election of officers and the transaction of other business, on the same day the annual meeting of stockholders is held. Notice of such meeting need not be given. Such meeting may be held at any other time or place which shall be specified in a notice thereof given as hereinafter provided in Section 7 of this Article III.  
     
  SECTION 5.  Regular Meetings.  Regular meetings of the Board shall be held at times and dates fixed by the Board or at such other times and dates as the Chairman of the Board shall determine and as shall be specified in the notice of such meetings. Notice of regular meetings of the Board need not be given except as otherwise required by law or these By-laws.  
     
 6   

SECTION 6.  Special Meetings.  Special meetings of the Board may be called by the Chairman of the Board, provided, however, that if the Chairman of the Board is unavailable, a special meeting of the Board may be called by agreement of each of the remaining members of the Executive Committee.  
     
  SECTION 7.  Notice of Meetings.  Notice of each special meeting of the Board (and of each regular meeting for which notice shall be required) shall be given by the Secretary as hereinafter provided in this Section 7, in which notice shall be stated the time, place and, if required by law or these By-laws, the purposes of such meeting. Notice of each such meeting shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each director, by first-class mail, at least four days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or shall be sent by facsimile transmission or comparable medium, or be delivered personally or by telephone, before the time at which such meeting is to be held. Notice of any such meeting need not be given to any director who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article IX of these By-laws. Any meeting of the Board shall be a legal meeting without notice thereof having been given, if all the directors of the Corporation then holding office shall be present thereat.  
     
  SECTION 8.  Quorum and Manner of Acting.  A majority of the Board shall be present in person at any meeting of the Board in order to constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at such meeting. Participation in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence in person at a meeting. Except as otherwise expressly required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation and except also as specified in Section 1, Section 5, and Section 6 of Article IV, in Section 3 of Article V and in Article XII of these By-laws, the act of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board. In the absence of a quorum at any meeting of the Board, a majority of the directors present thereat may adjourn such meeting from time to time until a quorum shall be present thereat. Notice of any adjourned meeting need not be given. At any adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally called. The directors shall act only as a Board and the individual directors shall have no power as such.  
     
  SECTION  9.   Organization.   At each meeting of the Board, the Chairman of the Board, or in the case of the Chairman s absence therefrom, the President, or in the case of the President s absence therefrom, a Vice Chairman, or in the case of the absence of all such persons, another director chosen by a majority of directors present, shall act as chairman of the meeting and preside thereat. The Secretary, or if the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting, any person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  
     
  SECTION 10.  Resignations.  
     
  (a) Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board or the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Subject to Section 10(b), any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or if  
     
 7   

the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall take effect immediately upon its receipt; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  
     
  (b) In an uncontested election, any incumbent nominee for director who does not receive an affirmative vote of a majority of the votes cast in favor of or against such nominee shall promptly tender his or her resignation after such election.  The independent directors of the Board, giving due consideration to the best interests of the Corporation and its stockholders, shall evaluate the relevant facts and circumstances, and shall make a decision, within 90 days after the election, on whether to accept the tendered resignation.  Any director who tenders a resignation pursuant to this provision shall not participate in the Board s decision. The Board will promptly disclose publicly its decision and, if applicable, the reasons for rejecting the tendered resignation.  
     
  SECTION 11.  Vacancies.  Any vacancy in the Board, whether arising from death, resignation, an increase in the number of directors or any other cause, may be filled by the Board.  
     
  SECTION 12.  Retirement of Directors. The Board may prescribe a retirement policy for directors on or after reaching a certain age, provided, however, that such retirement shall not cut short the annual term for which any director shall have been elected by the stockholders.  
     
  ARTICLE IV  
     
  EXECUTIVE AND OTHER COMMITTEES  
     
  SECTION 1.  Executive Committee.  The Executive Committee shall be comprised of the Chairman of the Board, and each of the respective chairs of the (i) Audit Committee, (ii) Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee, and (iii) Directors and Corporate Governance Committee, in each case including any successor committee. The Chairman of the Board shall serve as the Chairman of the Executive Committee to preside at all meetings of such Committee.  The Secretary, or if the Secretary shall be absent from such meeting, any person appointed by the chairman, shall act as secretary of the meeting and keep the minutes thereof.  
     
  SECTION 2.  Powers of the Executive Committee.  To the extent permitted by law, the Executive Committee may exercise all the powers of the Board in the management of specified matters where such authority is delegated to it by the Board, and also, to the extent permitted by law, the Executive Committee shall have, and may exercise, all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation (including the power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but excluding the power to appoint a member of the Executive Committee) in such manner as the Executive Committee shall deem to be in the best interests of the Corporation and not inconsistent with any prior specific action of the Board. An act of the Executive Committee taken within the scope of its authority shall be an act of the Board. The Executive Committee shall render in the form  
     
 8   

of minutes a report of its several acts at each regular meeting of the Board and at any other time when so directed by the Board.  
     
  SECTION 3.  Meetings of the Executive Committee.  Regular meetings of the Executive Committee shall be held at such times, on such dates and at such places as shall be fixed by resolution adopted by a majority of the Executive Committee, of which regular meetings notice need not be given, or as shall be fixed by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or in the absence of the Chairman of the Executive Committee the Chief Executive Officer and specified in the notice of such meeting. Special meetings of the Executive Committee may be called by the Chairman of the Executive Committee or by the Chief Executive Officer. Notice of each such special meeting of the Executive Committee (and of each regular meeting for which notice shall be required), stating the time and place thereof shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to each member of the Executive Committee, by first-class mail, at least four days before the day on which such meeting is to be held, or shall be sent by facsimile transmission or comparable medium, or be delivered personally or by telephone, at least twenty-four hours before the time at which such meeting is to be held; but notice need not be given to a member of the Executive Committee who shall waive notice thereof as provided in Article IX of these By-laws, and any meeting of the Executive Committee shall be a legal meeting without any notice thereof having been given, if all the members of such Committee shall be present thereat.  
     
  SECTION 4.  Quorum and Manner of Acting of the Executive Committee.  Four members of the Executive Committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, and the act of a majority of the members of the Executive Committee present at a meeting at which a quorum shall be present shall be the act of the Executive Committee. Participating in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence at a meeting of the Executive Committee. The members of the Executive Committee shall act only as a committee and individual members shall have no power as such.  
     
  SECTION 5.  Other Committees.  The Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, designate members of the Board to constitute other committees, which shall have, and may exercise, such powers as the Board may by resolution delegate to them, and shall in each case consist of such number of directors as the Board may determine; provided, however, that each such committee shall have at least three directors as members thereof. Such a committee may either be constituted for a specified term or may be constituted as a standing committee which does not require annual or periodic reconstitution. A majority of all the members of any such committee may determine its action and its quorum requirements and may fix the time and place of its meetings, unless the Board shall otherwise provide. Participating in a meeting by means of a conference telephone or similar communications equipment allowing all persons participating in the meeting to hear each other shall constitute presence at a meeting of such other committees.  
     
 9   

In addition to the foregoing, the Board may, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, create a committee of indeterminate membership and duration and not subject to the limitations as to the membership, quorum and manner of meeting and acting prescribed in these By-laws, which committee, in the event of a major disaster or catastrophe or national emergency which renders the Board incapable of action by reason of the death, physical incapacity or inability to meet of some or all of its members, shall have, and may exercise all the powers of the Board in the management of the business and affairs of the Corporation (including, without limitation, the power to authorize the seal of the Corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it and the power to fill vacancies in the Board). An act of such committee taken within the scope of its authority shall be an act of the Board.  
     
  SECTION 6.  Changes in Committees; Resignations; Removals; Vacancies.  The Board shall have power, by resolution adopted by a majority of the Board, at any time to change or remove the members of, to fill vacancies in, and to discharge any committee created pursuant to these By-laws, either with or without cause. Any member of any such committee may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board or the Chairman of the Board or the Secretary. Such resignation shall take effect upon receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein; and, unless otherwise specified therein, acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. Any vacancy in any committee, whether arising from death, resignation, an increase in the number of committee members or any other cause, shall be filled by the Board in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for the original appointment of the members of such committee.  
     
  ARTICLE V  
     
  OFFICERS  
     
  SECTION 1.  Number and Qualifications. The officers of the Corporation shall include the Chairman of the Board, and may include one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board, the President, one or more Vice Presidents (one or more of whom may be designated as Executive Vice Presidents or as Senior Vice Presidents or by other designations), the Treasurer, the Secretary and the Controller.  Officers shall be elected from time to time by the Board, each to hold office until a successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified, or until death, or until resignation as hereinafter provided in Section 2 of this Article V, or until removed as hereinafter provided in Section 3 of this Article V.  
     
  SECTION  2.   Resignations.   Any officer of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice of resignation to the Board, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the Secretary. Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time when it shall become effective shall not be specified therein, then it shall become effective upon its receipt; and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  
     
 10   

SECTION  3.  Removal.  Any officer of the Corporation may be removed, either with or without cause, at any time, by a resolution adopted by a majority of the Board at any meeting of the Board.  
     
  SECTION  4.  Vacancies.  A vacancy in any office, whether arising from death, resignation, removal or any other cause, may be filled for the unexpired portion of the term of office which shall be vacant, in the manner prescribed in these By-laws for the regular election or appointment to such office.  
     
  SECTION  5.  Chairman of the Board.  The Chairman of the Board shall, if present, preside at each meeting of the stockholders and of the Board and shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board. The Chairman may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered; and affix the seal of the Corporation to any instrument which shall require it. The Chairman of the Board, when there is no President or in the absence or incapacity of the President, shall perform all the duties and functions and exercise all the powers of the President.  
     
  SECTION 6.  Vice Chairman of the Board. Each Vice Chairman of the Board shall assist the Chairman of the Board and have such other duties as may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board. The Vice Chairman may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all deeds, mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to some officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered; and affix the seal of the Corporation to any instrument which shall require it.  
     
  SECTION  7.  President.  The President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board. The President may sign certificates representing shares of the stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws; sign, execute and deliver in the name of the Corporation all deeds mortgages, bonds, contracts or other instruments authorized by the Board, except in cases where the signing, execution or delivery thereof shall be expressly delegated by the Board or these By-laws to some other officer or agent of the Corporation or where they shall be required by law otherwise to be signed, executed and delivered, and affix the seal of the Corporation to any instrument which shall require it; and, in general, perform all duties incident to the office of President. The President shall in the absence or incapacity of the Chairman of the  
     
 11   

Board, perform all the duties and functions and exercise all the powers of the Chairman of the Board.  
     
  SECTION  8.   Designated Officers.   (a)  Chief Executive Officer.  Either the Chairman of the Board, or the President, as the Board of Directors may designate, shall be the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation. The officer so designated shall have, in addition to the powers and duties applicable to the office set forth in Section 5 or 7 of this Article V, general and active supervision over the business and affairs of the Corporation and over its several officers, agents, and employees, subject, however, to the control of the Board. The Chief Executive Officer shall see that all orders and resolutions of the Board are carried into effect, be an ex officio member of all committees of the Board (except the Audit Committee, the Directors and Corporate Governance Committee, and committees specifically empowered to fix or approve the Chief Executive Officer s compensation or to grant or administer bonus, option or other similar plans in which the Chief Executive Officer is eligible to participate), and, in general, shall perform all duties incident to the position of Chief Executive Officer and such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Board.    (b) Other Designated Officers.  The Board of Directors may designate officers to serve as Chief Financial Officer, Chief Accounting Officer and other such designated positions and to fulfill the responsibilities of such designated positions in addition to their duties as officers as set forth in this Article V.  
     
  SECTION 9.  Executive Vice Presidents, Senior Vice Presidents and Vice Presidents. Each Executive and Senior Vice President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President. Each Vice President shall perform all such duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or a Senior Vice President. Any Vice President may sign certificates representing shares of stock of the Corporation pursuant to the provisions of Section 1 of Article VII of these By-laws.  
     
  SECTION 10.  Treasurer.  The Treasurer shall:  
     
  (a) have charge and custody of, and be responsible for, all the funds and securities of the Corporation, and may invest the same in any securities, may open, maintain and close accounts for effecting any and all purchase, sale, investment and lending transactions in securities of any and all kinds for and on behalf of the Corporation or any employee pension or benefit plan fund or other fund established by the Corporation, as may be permitted by law;  
     
  (b) keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation;  
     
  (c) deposit all moneys and other valuables to the credit of the Corporation in such depositaries as may be designated by the Board or the Executive Committee;  
     
 12   

(d) receive, and give receipts for, moneys due and payable to the Corporation from any source whatsoever;  
     
  (e) disburse the funds of the Corporation and supervise the investment of its funds, taking proper vouchers therefor;  
     
  (f) render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an account of all transactions as Treasurer; and  
     
  (g) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President.  
     
  SECTION 11.  Secretary.  The Secretary shall:  
     
  (a) keep or cause to be kept in one or more books provided for the purpose, the minutes of all meetings of the Board, the Executive Committee and other committees of the Board and the stockholders;  
     
  (b) see that all notices are duly given in accordance with the provisions of these By-laws and as required by law;  
     
  (c) be custodian of the records and the seal of the Corporation and affix and attest the seal to all stock certificates of the Corporation and affix and attest the seal to all other documents to be executed on behalf of the Corporation under its seal;  
     
  (d) see that the books, reports, statements, certificates and other documents and records required by law to be kept and filed are properly kept and filed; and  
     
  (e) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Secretary and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President.     
     
  SECTION  12.  Controller.  The Controller shall:  
     
  (a) have control of all the books of account of the Corporation;  
     
  (b) keep a true and accurate record of all property owned by it, of its debts and of its revenues and expenses;  
     
  (c) keep all accounting records of the Corporation (other than the accounts of receipts and disbursements and those relating to the deposits of money and other valuables of the Corporation, which shall be kept by the Treasurer);  
     
  (d) render to the Board, whenever the Board may require, an account of the financial condition of the Corporation; and  
     
 13   

(e) in general, perform all the duties incident to the office of Controller and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned by the Board or the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or an Executive or Senior Vice President.  
     
  SECTION 13.  Compensation.  The compensation of the officers of the Corporation shall be fixed from time to time by the Board; provided, however, that the Board may delegate to a committee the power to fix or approve the compensation of any officers. An officer of the Corporation shall not be prevented from receiving compensation by reason of being also a director of the Corporation; but any such officer who shall also be a director shall not have any vote in the determination of the amount of compensation paid to such officer.  
     
  ARTICLE VI  
     
  CONTRACTS, CHECKS, DRAFTS, BANK ACCOUNTS, ETC.  
     
  SECTION 1.  Execution of Contracts.  Except as otherwise required by law or these By-laws, any contract or other instrument may be executed and delivered in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by any officer (including any assistant officer) of the Corporation. The Board or the Executive Committee may authorize any agent or employee to execute and deliver any contract or other instrument in the name and on behalf of the Corporation, and such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board or such Committee, as the case may be, may by resolution determine.  
     
  SECTION 2.  Loans.  Unless the Board shall otherwise determine, the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or any Vice President, acting together with the Treasurer or the Secretary, may effect loans and advances at any time for the Corporation from any bank, trust company or other institution, or from any firm, corporation or individual, and for such loans and advances may make, execute and deliver promissory notes, bonds or other certificates or evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, but in making such loans or advances no officer or officers shall mortgage, pledge, hypothecate or transfer any securities or other property of the Corporation, except when authorized by resolution adopted by the Board.  
     
  SECTION 3.  Checks, Drafts, etc.  All checks, drafts, bills of exchange or other orders for the payment of money out of the funds of the Corporation, and all notes or other evidences of indebtedness of the Corporation, shall be signed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation by such persons and in such manner as shall from time to time be authorized by the Board or the Executive Committee or authorized by the Treasurer acting together with either the General Manager of an operating unit or a nonfinancial Vice President of the Corporation, which authorization may be general or confined to specific instances.  
     
  SECTION 4.  Deposits.  All funds of the Corporation not otherwise employed shall be deposited from time to time to the credit of the Corporation in such banks, trust  
     
 14   

companies or other depositaries as the Board or the Executive Committee may from time to time designate or as may be designated by any officer or officers of the Corporation to whom such power of designation may from time to time be delegated by the Board or the Executive Committee. For the purpose of deposit and for the purpose of collection for the account of the Corporation, checks, drafts and other orders for the payment of money which are payable to the order of the Corporation may be endorsed, assigned and delivered by any officer, employee or agent of the Corporation.  
     
  SECTION 5.  General and Special Bank Accounts.  The Board or the Executive Committee may from time to time authorize the opening and keeping of general and special bank accounts with such banks, trust companies or other depositaries as the Board or the Executive Committee may designate or as may be designated by any officer or officers of the Corporation to whom such power of designation may from time to time be delegated by the Board or the Executive Committee. The Board or the Executive Committee may make such special rules and regulations with respect to such bank accounts, not inconsistent with the provisions of these By-laws, as it may deem expedient.  
     
  SECTION 6.  Indemnification.  The Corporation shall, to the fullest extent  permitted by applicable law as in effect at any time, indemnify any person made, or threatened to be made, a party to an action or proceeding whether civil or criminal (including an action or proceeding by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that such person is (i) an officer or director of the Corporation or (ii) an officer or director of the Corporation who is asked to serve in any capacity at the request of the Corporation in any corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, against, in each case, judgments, fines, amounts paid in settlement and reasonable expenses, including attorneys  fees actually and necessarily incurred as a result of such action or proceeding, or any appeal therein. Such indemnification shall be a contract right that vests upon the occurrence or alleged occurrence of any act or omission to act that forms the basis for or is related to the claim for which indemnification is sought and shall include the right to be paid advances of any expenses incurred by such person in connection with such action, suit or proceeding, and the right to be indemnified for expenses incurred by such person in connection with successfully establishing a right to indemnification, in each case consistent with the provisions of applicable law in effect at any time. Indemnification shall be deemed to be  permitted  within the meaning of the first sentence hereof if it is not expressly prohibited by applicable law as in effect at the time.  The indemnification rights hereunder shall continue as to any such person who has ceased to be an officer or director of the Corporation and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of any such person.  If the right of indemnification provided for in this Section 6 is amended or repealed, such amendment or repeal will not limit the indemnification provided for herein with respect to any acts or omissions to act occurring prior to any such amendment or repeal. 
     
 15   

ARTICLE VII  
     
  SHARES  
     
  SECTION 1.  Stock Certificates.  The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, or shall be uncertificated shares.  Each owner of stock of the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate, in such form as shall be approved by the Board, certifying the number of shares of stock of the Corporation owned.  To the extent that shares are represented by certificates, such certificates of stock shall be signed in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board or a Vice Chairman of the Board or the President or a Vice President and by the Secretary and sealed with the seal of the Corporation (which seal may be a facsimile, engraved or printed); provided, however, that where any such certificate is signed by a registrar, other than the Corporation or its employee, the signatures of the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, the Secretary, and transfer agent or a transfer clerk acting on behalf of the Corporation upon such certificates may be facsimiles, engraved or printed. In case any officer, transfer agent or transfer clerk acting on behalf of the Corporation ceases to be such officer, transfer agent, or transfer clerk before such certificates shall be issued, they may nevertheless be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if they were still such officer, transfer agent or transfer clerk at the date of their issue.  
     
  SECTION 2.  Books of Account and Record of Stockholders.  There shall be kept at the office of the Corporation correct books of account of all its business and transactions, minutes of the proceedings of stockholders, Board, and Executive Committee, and a book to be known as the record of stockholders, containing the names and addresses of all persons who are stockholders, the number of shares of stock held, and the date when the stockholder became the owner of record thereof.  
     
  SECTION 3.  Transfers of Stock.  Transfers of shares of stock of the Corporation shall be made on the record of stockholders of the Corporation only upon authorization by the registered holder thereof, or by an attorney thereunto authorized by power of attorney duly executed and filed with the Secretary or with a transfer agent or transfer clerk, and on surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed, provided such shares are represented by a certificate, or accompanied by a duly executed stock transfer power and the payment of all taxes thereon.  The person in whose names shares of stock shall stand on the record of stockholders of the Corporation shall be deemed the owner thereof for all purposes as regards the Corporation. Whenever any transfers of shares shall be made for collateral security and not absolutely and written notice thereof shall be given to the Secretary or to such transfer agent or transfer clerk, such fact shall be stated in the entry of the transfer.  
     
  SECTION 4.  Regulations.  The Board may make such additional rules and regulations as it may deem expedient, not inconsistent with these By-laws, concerning the issue, transfer and registration of certificated or uncertificated shares of stock of the Corporation.  It may appoint, or authorize any officer or officers to appoint, one or more  
     
 16   

transfer agents or one or more transfer clerks and one or more registrars and may require all certificates of stock to bear the signature or signatures of any of them.  
     
  SECTION 5.  Fixing of Record Date.  The Board shall fix a time not exceeding sixty nor less than ten days prior to the date then fixed for the holding of any meeting of the stockholders or prior to the last day on which the consent or dissent of the stockholders may be effectively expressed for any purpose without a meeting, as the time as of which the stockholders entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or whose consent or dissent is required or may be expressed for any purpose, as the case may be, shall be determined, and all persons who were holders of record of voting stock at such time, and no others, shall be entitled to notice of and to vote at such meeting or to express their consent or dissent, as the case may be.  The Board may fix a time not exceeding sixty days preceding the date fixed for the payment of any dividend or the making of any distribution or the allotment of rights to subscribe for securities of the Corporation, or for the delivery of evidences of rights or evidences of interests arising out of any change, conversion or exchange of capital stock or other securities, as the record date for the determination of the stockholders entitled to receive any such dividend, distribution, allotment, rights or interests, and in such case only the stockholders of record at the time so fixed shall be entitled to receive such dividend, distribution, allotment, rights or interests.  
     
  SECTION 6.  Lost, Destroyed or Mutilated Certificates.  The holder of any certificate representing shares of stock of the Corporation shall immediately notify the Corporation of any loss, destruction or mutilation of such certificate, and the Corporation may issue a new certificate of stock in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it which the owner thereof shall allege to have been lost or destroyed or which shall have been mutilated, and the Corporation may, in its discretion, require such owner or the owner s legal representatives to give to the Corporation a bond in such sum, limited or unlimited, and in such form and with such surety or sureties as the Board in its absolute discretion shall determine, to indemnify the Corporation against any claim that may be made against it on account of the alleged loss or destruction of any such certificate, or the issuance of such new certificate. Anything to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation, in its absolute discretion, may refuse to issue any such new certificate, except pursuant to legal proceedings under the laws of the State of New York.  
     
  SECTION 7.  Inspection of Records.  The record of stockholders and minutes of the proceedings of stockholders shall be available for inspection, within the limits and subject to the conditions and restrictions prescribed by applicable law.  
     
  SECTION 8.  Auditors.  The Board shall employ an independent public or certified public accountant or firm of such accountants who shall act as auditors in making examinations of the consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiaries in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards. The auditors shall certify that the annual financial statements are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and shall report on such financial statements  
     
 17   

to the stockholders and directors of the Corporation. The Board s selection of auditors shall be presented for ratification by the stockholders at the annual meeting. Directors and officers, when acting in good faith, may rely upon financial statements of the Corporation represented to them to be correct by the officer of the Corporation having charge of its books of account, or stated in a written report by the auditors fairly to reflect the financial condition of the Corporation.  
     
  ARTICLE VIII  
     
  OFFICES  
     
  SECTION 1.  Principal Office.  The principal office of the Corporation shall be at such place in the Town of North Castle, County of Westchester and State of New York as the Board shall from time to time determine.  
     
  SECTION 2.  Other Offices.  The Corporation may also have an office or offices other than said principal office at such place or places as the Board shall from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require.  
     
  ARTICLE IX  
     
  WAIVER OF NOTICE  
     
  Whenever under the provisions of any law of the State of New York, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-laws or any resolution of the Board or any committee thereof, the Corporation or the Board or any committee thereof is authorized to take any action after notice to the stockholders, directors or members of any such committee, or after the lapse of a prescribed period of time, such action may be taken without notice and without the lapse of any period of time, if, at any time before or after such action shall be completed, such notice or lapse of time shall be waived by the person or persons entitled to said notice or entitled to participate in the action to be taken, or, in the case of a stockholder, by an attorney thereunto authorized. Attendance at a meeting requiring notice by any person or, in the case of a stockholder, by the stockholder s attorney, agent or proxy, shall constitute a waiver of such notice on the part of the person so attending, or by such stockholder, as the case may be.  
     
  ARTICLE X  
     
  FISCAL YEAR  
     
  The fiscal year of the Corporation shall end on the thirty-first day of December in each year.  
     
 18   

ARTICLE XI  
     
  SEAL  
     
  The Seal of the Corporation shall consist of two concentric circles with the IBM logotype appearing in bold face type within the inner circle and the words  International Business Machines Corporation  appearing within the outer circle.  
     
  ARTICLE XII  
     
  AMENDMENTS  
     
  These By-laws may be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted by the stockholders at any annual or special meeting, if the notice thereof mentions that amendment or repeal or the adoption of new By-laws is one of the purposes of such meeting. These By-laws, subject to the laws of the State of New York, may also be amended or repealed or new By-laws may be adopted by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board given at any meeting, if the notice thereof mentions that amendment or repeal or the adoption of new By-laws is one of the purposes of such meeting.  
     
 19   

</EX-3.2>

<EX-10.1>
 3
 a2230222zex-10_1.htm
 EX-10.1

EXHIBIT 10.1  
     
    NONCOMPETITION AGREEMENT    
     
  In recognition of the critical role that you will play as a senior executive with International Business Machines Corporation ( IBM ) and in recognition of your access to IBM Confidential Information by virtue of your position, and/or your membership on the Growth   Transformation Team, and/or your appointment as an IBM Fellow, and/or as consideration for your promotion or hiring as a senior executive, along with any awards to be granted to you under an IBM Long-Term Performance Plan ( LTPP ), and/or for other good and valuable consideration, you ( Employee  or  you ) agree to the terms and conditions herein of this Noncompetition Agreement (the  Agreement ).  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined shall have the meaning ascribed to them in Paragraph 2.  
     
   1.                                            Covenants.   
     
  You acknowledge and agree that:  
     
  a)                                        the compensation that you will receive in connection with this Agreement, including any equity awards, cash and other compensation, your position as a senior executive, and/or your appointment to or continued membership on the Growth   Transformation Team or any successor team or group ( G TT ), if applicable, and/or your appointment as an IBM Fellow, if applicable, is consideration both for your work at IBM and for your compliance with the post-employment restrictive covenants included in this Agreement. 
     
  b)                                        (i) the business in which IBM and its affiliates (collectively, the  Company ) are engaged is intensely competitive and that your employment by IBM and/or your membership on the G TT, if applicable, and/or your role as an IBM Fellow, if applicable, requires that you have access to, and knowledge of, IBM Confidential Information, including IBM Confidential Information that pertains not only to your business or unit, but also to the Company s global operations; (ii) you are given access to, and develop relationships with, customers of the Company at the time and expense of the Company; and (iii) by your training, experience and expertise, your services to the Company are, and will continue to be, extraordinary, special and unique. 
     
  c)                                         (i) the disclosure of IBM Confidential Information would place the Company at a serious competitive disadvantage and would do serious damage, financial and 

otherwise, to the business of the Company; and (ii) you will keep in strict confidence, and will not, directly or indirectly, at any time during or after your employment with IBM, disclose, furnish, disseminate, make available or use, except in the course of performing your duties of employment, any IBM Confidential Information or any other trade secrets or confidential business and technical information of the Company s customers or vendors, without limitation as to when or how you may have acquired such information.  
     
  d)                                        (i) that IBM Confidential Information, whether reduced to writing, maintained on any form of electronic media, or maintained in your mind or memory and whether compiled by the Company and/or you, is owned by the Company, derives independent economic value from not being generally known to or readily ascertainable through proper means by others who can obtain economic value from its disclosure or use, and is the subject of efforts that are reasonable under the circumstances to maintain its secrecy of such information; (ii) that IBM Confidential Information therefore constitutes a trade secret  of the Company; and (iii)  that any retention and use of such information by you during or after your  employment with IBM (except in the course of performing your duties and obligations to IBM) shall constitute a misappropriation of the Company s trade secrets. 
     
  e)                                         during your employment with IBM and for twelve (12) months following the termination of your employment either by you or by IBM, that: (i) you will not directly or indirectly within the  Restricted Area   Engage in or Associate with  (a) any  Business Enterprise  or (b) any competitor of the Company, if performing the duties and responsibilities of such engagement or association could result in you intentionally or unintentionally using, disclosing, or relying upon IBM Confidential Information to which you had access by virtue of your job duties or other responsibilities with IBM; however, in the event that your employment with IBM is terminated by IBM for a reason other than Cause, including but not limited to as a direct result of a resource action or similar restructuring action, the postemployment restriction in this clause will not apply; and (ii) you will not directly or indirectly solicit, for competitive business purposes, any customer of the Company with which you were directly or indirectly involved as part of your job responsibilities during the last twelve (12) months of your employment with IBM. 
     
 2   

f)                                          during your employment with IBM and for two (2) years following the termination of your employment by either you or by IBM for any reason, you will not directly or indirectly within the  Restricted Area  hire, solicit or make an offer to, or attempt to or participate or assist in any effort to hire, solicit, or make an offer to, any employee of the Company to be employed or to perform services outside of the Company.  As used herein,  employee of the Company  means any employee of the Company who worked within the Restricted Area at any time in the twelve (12) month period immediately preceding any actual or attempted hiring, solicitation or making of an offer. 
     
   2.                                            Definitions.   
     
  The following terms have the meanings provided below.  
     
  a)                                         Business Enterprise  means any entity that engages in, or owns or controls an interest in any entity that engages in, competition with any business unit or division of the Company in which you worked at any time during the three (3) year period prior to the termination of your employment. 
     
  b)                                         Cause  means, as reasonably determined by IBM, the occurrence of any of the following: (i) embezzlement, misappropriation of corporate funds or other material acts of dishonesty; (ii) commission or conviction of any felony or of any misdemeanor involving moral turpitude, or entry of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to any felony or misdemeanor (other than a minor traffic violation or other minor infraction); (iii) engagement in any activity that you know or should know could harm the business or reputation of the Company; (iv) failure to adhere to the Company s corporate codes, policies or procedures; (v) a breach of any covenant in any employment agreement or any intellectual property agreement, or a breach of any other provision of your employment agreement, in either case if the breach is not cured to the Company s satisfaction within a reasonable period after you are provided with notice of the breach (no notice and cure period is required if the breach cannot be cured), provided, however, that the mere failure to achieve performance objectives shall not constitute Cause; (vi) failure by you to perform your duties or follow management direction, which failure is not cured to the Company s satisfaction within a reasonable period of time after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you (no notice or cure period is required if the failure to perform  
     
 3   

cannot be cured); or (vii) violation of any statutory, contractual or common law duty or obligation to the Company, including, without limitation, the duty of loyalty.  
     
  c)                                          Engage in or Associate with  includes, without limitation, engagement or association as a sole proprietor, owner, employer, director, partner, principal, joint venture, associate, employee, member, consultant, or contractor.  The phrase also includes engagement or association as a shareholder or investor during the course of your employment with IBM, and includes beneficial ownership of five percent (5%) or more of any class of outstanding stock of a Business Enterprise or competitor of the Company following the termination of your employment with IBM. 
     
  d)                                         IBM Confidential Information  includes, without limitation, the Company s formulae, patterns, compilations, programs, devices, methods, techniques, software, tools, systems, and processes, the Company s selling, manufacturing, servicing methods and business techniques, implementation strategies, and information about any of the foregoing, the Company s training, service, and business manuals, promotional materials, training courses and other training and instructional materials, vendor and product information, customer and prospective customer lists, other customer and prospective customer information, client data, global strategic plans, marketing plans, information about the Company s management techniques and management strategies, information regarding long-term business opportunities, information regarding the development status of specific Company products, assessments of the global competitive landscape of the industries in which the Company competes, plans for acquisition or disposition of products or companies or business units, expansion plans, financial status and plans, compensation information, and personnel information. 
     
  e)                                          Restricted Area  means any geographic area in the world in which you worked or for which you had job responsibilities, including supervisory responsibilities, during the last twelve (12) months of your employment with IBM.  You acknowledge that IBM is a global company and that the responsibilities of certain IBM employees, including, without limitation, G TT members, are global in scope. 
     
   3.                                            Acknowledgements.   
     
  You acknowledge that a mere agreement not to disclose, use, or rely on IBM Confidential Information after your employment by IBM ends would be inadequate, standing   
     
 4   

alone, to protect IBM s legitimate business interests.  You acknowledge that disclosure of, use of, or reliance on IBM Confidential Information, whether or not intentional, is often difficult or impossible for the Company to detect until it is too late to obtain any effective remedy.  You acknowledge that the Company would suffer irreparable harm if you fail to comply with Paragraph 1 or otherwise improperly disclose, use, or rely on IBM Confidential Information.  You acknowledge that the restrictions set forth in Paragraph 1 are reasonable as to geography, scope and duration.  
     
   4.                                            Injunctive Relief.   
     
  You agree that the Company would suffer irreparable harm if you were to breach, or threaten to breach, any provision of this Agreement and that the Company would by reason of such breach, or threatened breach, be entitled to injunctive relief in a court of appropriate jurisdiction, without the need to post any bond, and you further consent and stipulate to the entry of such injunctive relief in such a court prohibiting you from breaching this Agreement.  This Paragraph shall not, however, diminish the right of the Company to claim and recover damages in addition to injunctive relief.  
     
   5.                                            Severability.   
     
  In the event that any one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid or unenforceable, the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.  Moreover, if any one or more of the provisions contained in this Agreement shall be held to be excessively broad as to duration, activity or subject, such provisions shall be construed by limiting and reducing them so as to be enforceable to the maximum extent allowed by applicable law.  Furthermore, a determination in any jurisdiction that this Agreement, in whole or in part, is invalid or unenforceable shall not in any way affect or impair the validity or enforceability of this Agreement in any other jurisdiction.  
     
   6.                                            Headings.   
     
  The headings in this Agreement are inserted for convenience and reference only and shall in no way affect, define, limit or describe the scope, intent or construction of any provision hereof.  
     
 5   

7.                                            Waiver.   
     
  The failure of IBM to enforce any terms, provisions or covenants of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of the same or of the right of IBM to enforce the same.  Waiver by IBM of any breach or default by you (or by any other employee or former employee of IBM) of any term or provision of this Agreement (or any similar agreement between IBM and you or any other employee or former employee of IBM) shall not operate as a waiver of any other breach or default.  
     
   8.                                            Successors and Assigns.   
     
  This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon IBM, any successor organization which shall succeed to IBM by acquisition, merger, consolidation or operation of law, or by acquisition of assets of IBM and any assigns.  You may not assign your obligations under this Agreement.  
     
   9.                                            Disclosure of Existence of Covenants.   
     
  You agree that while employed by IBM and for two (2) years thereafter, you will communicate the contents of this Agreement to any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or other entity which you intend to be employed by, associated with or represent, prior to or at the time of accepting such employment, association or representation.  
     
   10.                                     Notice to IBM of Prospective Position.   
     
  You agree that if, at any time during your employment or within twelve (12) months following the termination of your employment with IBM, you are offered and intend to accept a position with any person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or other entity other than the Company, you will provide the Senior Vice President of Human Resources for IBM Corporation with two (2) week written notice prior to accepting any such position.  This two (2) week written notice is separate from any other notice obligations you may have under agreements with IBM.  If for any reason you cannot, despite using your best efforts, provide the two (2) week written notice prior to accepting any such position, you agree that you will provide two (2) week written notice prior to commencing that new position.  You acknowledge and agree that a two (2) week written notice period is appropriate and necessary to permit IBM to determine whether, in its view, your proposed new position could lead to a violation of this   
     
 6   

Agreement, and you agree that you will provide IBM with such information as IBM may request to allow IBM to complete its assessment (except that you need not provide any information that would constitute confidential or trade secret information of any entity other than the Company).  During the notice period required by this Paragraph, IBM may choose, in its sole discretion, to limit your duties in your position with IBM and to restrict your access to IBM s premises, systems, products, information, and employees.  IBM is committed to protect its trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information, and will take all necessary and appropriate steps to do so.  Upon giving notice, you agree to cooperate with IBM in good faith to ensure that its trade secrets and other confidential and proprietary information are not disclosed, either intentionally or inadvertently.  
     
   11.                                     No Oral Modification.   
     
  This Agreement may not be changed orally, but may be changed only in a writing signed by the Employee and a duly authorized representative of IBM.  
     
   12.                                     Entire Agreement.   
     
  Although this Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between the Employee and IBM concerning the restrictive covenants herein, this Agreement does not impair, diminish, restrict or waive any other restrictive covenant, nondisclosure obligation or confidentiality obligation of the Employee to the Company under any other agreement, policy, plan or program of the Company.  Nothing herein affects your rights, immunities, or obligations under any federal, state, or local law, including under the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016, as described in the Company s Business Conduct Guidelines, or prohibits you from reporting possible violations of law or regulation to a government agency, as protected by law.  The Employee and IBM represent that, in executing this Agreement, the Employee and IBM have not relied upon any representations or statements made, other than those set forth herein, with regard to the subject matter, basis or effect of this Agreement.  
     
   13.                                     Governing Law and Choice of Forum.   
     
  This Agreement shall be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York, without regard to its conflict of law rules.  The parties agree that any action or proceeding with respect to this Agreement shall be brought exclusively in the state and  
     
 7   

federal courts sitting in New York County or Westchester County, New York.  The parties agree to the personal jurisdiction thereof, and irrevocably waive any objection to the venue of such action, including any objection that the action has been brought in an inconvenient forum.  

[INSERT EMPLOYEE NAME HERE]       

INTERNATIONAL   BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION           

By:       

By:       

(Employee   Signature)       

Diane   J. Gherson     Senior Vice President, Human Resources           

Employee   Serial No.       

Date       

8   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 4
 a2230222zex-10_2.htm
 EX-10.2

Exhibit 10.2   
     
  December 4, 2008  
     
  Erich Clementi  
  93 Greenhaven Rd  
  Rye, NY  10580  
     
  This letter confirms our offer of IBM employment to you as General Manager, Enterprise Initiatives, Systems and Technology Group, reporting to Samuel J. Palmisano, Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer.  
     
  The elements of your employment offer are:  
     
  Effective on your first day of employment, your total target annualized compensation will be $1,100,000.00.  It will be comprised of $564,000.00 annual base salary (paid to you in equal semi-monthly payments) and $536,000.00 target incentive, plus the opportunity to participate in IBM benefits.  
     
  The incentive payout amount will be determined based on IBM s business performance and the attainment of your individual annual business objectives.  You must be an active employee on December 31, 2009 in order to be eligible for a payout.  You will receive a letter detailing the objectives and structure of your incentive compensation shortly after you begin your IBM employment.  You will find it helpful to read the IBM Annual Incentive Program description for a detailed explanation of how the program works and how it relates to the rest of your compensation package after you join IBM.  
     
  All outstanding Long Term Incentive awards will be reinstated under your US serial number with the original terms and conditions of the award retained.  
     
  If you remain employed with IBM for 5 years following January 1, 2009, you will be eligible to receive a payment equal to $500,000.00.  For each year you work beyond the 5 year anniversary date, the amount payable to you will be increased by 10%, for a maximum period of 5 years (the amount payable shall be referred to herein as the  Amount ).  The payment of the Amount shall be made no later than the end of the year after your year of separation from service with IBM, which includes any company that is at least 80% owned, directly or indirectly, by IBM Corp.  The payment of the Amount shall be made in a lump sum.  
     
  If at the time you separate employment with IBM, you are a key employee, as defined under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A for the year that you leave IBM, the payment of the amount must be delayed for six months from the date of your separation from service with IBM.  
     
  This payment will be subject to all applicable withholding for taxes and will not be considered compensation for any purposes under any IBM employee benefit plan or program.  

Erich Clementi  
     
  December 4, 2008  
     
  Page  2   
     
  You will be eligible for tax filing assistance from IBM in any tax year following the year of your localization during which you incur a tax impact as a result of trailing income (income relating back to the period of your assignment) such as, for example, excess tax or IBM equity awards held prior to your localization.  Tax equalization as per the terms and conditions of your assignment will continue to apply.  The equalization will be calculated on the basis that you remained in your pre-localization home country until the date of localization, and took up residence for the first time in the United States from the date of localization.  
     
  In order to assist you in the move from Italy to the Armonk, NY area, we are pleased to offer you benefits under the IBM US Mobility Plan for the Permanent Work Location.  Part of the eligibility for relocation is that your new residence must be within 50 miles of your new work location.  For detailed information on plan features, please work with the counselor who will be assigned to you by the relocation firm.  As part of the IBM US Mobility Plan, you will also receive a one-time, net, lump sum payment of $3,000.00, which is a tax assisted gross payment of $4,800.00.  The $3,000.00 payment is intended to assist you with miscellaneous costs.  At year end, tax assistance will be provided, and an employee W-2 form will be issued.  
     
  By accepting this offer, you are required to complete and sign the Repayment Agreement Form that was provided to you.  Since receipt of this form is necessary to initiate the relocation process, please return it by fax or mail as directed on the form at your earliest convenience.  
     
  During your employment, you will be eligible to participate in the various benefit plans which IBM generally makes available to its regular employees, including medical and dental coverage, accident, disability and life insurance.  For detailed information on IBM Health Care benefits, visit the Health Care Benefits at IBM site http://www.ibm.com/employment/us/benefits/.  
     
  In addition, you will be eligible to participate in the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan.  This Plan offers a 100% Company match, up to 5% of pay, plus a 1% automatic contribution after you complete one year of IBM service.  If you meet certain eligibility requirements, you may also be eligible to participate in the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess Plan) that provides benefits in excess of the IRS limits.  Additional details on these programs are being sent to you under separate cover.  
     
  IBM employees are required to comply with IBM s Business Conduct Guidelines.  As an IBM US employee, you will need to read these documents, and will be required to acknowledge receipt and compliance with the Business Conduct Guidelines.  
     
  Your employment is also contingent upon your compliance with the U.S. immigration law.  The law requires you to complete the U.S. Government Employment Eligibility Verification form   (I-9) and to provide on your first day of employment documents that verify your identity and employment eligibility.  By accepting this offer, you will be required to comply with this law.  

Erich Clementi  
     
  December 4, 2008  
     
  Page  3   
     
  Further, your employment is contingent upon your obtaining and maintaining employment authorization from the United States Immigration Service.  As we have done in the past, IBM will continue to assist you, if required, in obtaining/maintaining this authorization and will sponsor your application for permanent residency.  
     
  On your first day of employment you will be required to sign IBM s form regarding confidential information and intellectual property.  
     
  U.S. Laws and regulations prohibit the unauthorized release of restricted technology to certain persons.  IBM, in order to comply with these legal requirements, must ascertain whether someone who may be given access to restricted technology is a  Foreign Person  subject to these export control restrictions.  If someone is a Foreign Person for export control purposes, then he/she may need to be granted an export license or other government authorization before starting in a position with access to restricted technology.  
     
  Because you indicated that you are a Foreign Person on your employment application (by answering  no  to the question,  Are you a U.S. Citizen or national, a permanent resident, a refugee, an asylee or authorized to work under the amnesty provisions of U.S. immigration law? ), you will be contacted by a member of IBM s Staffing organization who will ask for your country(s) of citizenship and permanent residence.  Your country(s) of citizenship and permanent residence will enable IBM to determine the type of export license which would be required, should you be placed in a position with access to restricted technology.  

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 5
 a2230222zex-10_3.htm
 EX-10.3

Exhibit 10.3   
     
  January 28, 2015  
     
  Mr. Martin Jetter  
     
  This letter confirms our offer of IBM employment to you as  Senior Vice President  IBM Global Technology Services reporting to Ginni Rometty, Chairman, President and CEO. 
     
  The elements of your employment offer are:  
     
    Total Target Cash:    
     
  Effective on your first day of IBM US employment, your total target annualized compensation will be $1,469,000.  It will be comprised of $625,000 annual base salary and $844,000 target incentive, plus the opportunity to participate in the IBM US benefits. You will receive a paycheck on a semi-monthly basis, on or around the 15th and 31st of each month.  
     
  The incentive payout amount will be determined based on IBM s business performance and the attainment of your individual annual business objectives.  You must be an active employee on December 31, 2015 in order to be eligible for a payout.  
     
    Benefits   : 
     
  During your IBM US employment, you will be eligible to participate in the various benefit plans which IBM US generally makes available to its regular employees, including medical and dental coverage, accident, disability and life insurance, as well as the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan. Specific to the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, this plan offers a 100% Company match, up to 5% of pay, plus a 1% automatic contribution. In addition, if you meet certain eligibility requirements during the annual enrollment period held each fall, you may also be eligible to participate in the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan that provides the same benefits as the 401(k) Plus Plan on pay in excess of the IRS limits.  Additional details on these programs will be provided separately.  
     
    Special Payment:    
     
  Upon your Separation from Service (as defined in the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan), you will be eligible for a one-time special payment ( Special Payment ) equal to the difference between (i) the amount of the benefit you would have accumulated, but have not yet earned under the IBM Vorsorgeplan (IVP) had you remained an employee of IBM Germany, and (ii) the maximum amount of IBM matching and automatic contributions you are eligible to receive under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan and the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (US Plans) regardless of whether you participate, each amount in clauses (i) and (ii) shall be measured from February 1, 2015, your IBM US date of hire, through the  

January 28, 2015  
     
  Mr. Martin Jetter  
     
  Page  2   
     
  date of your Separation from Service from IBM.  The Special Payment shall be calculated in accordance with the terms and conditions of the IVP and the US Plans respectively, as such plans may be amended from time to time.  The Special Payment shall be made in a lump sum payment in the February following the year in which your Separation from Service occurs.  If on the date of your Separation from Service you are a Key Employee ( 409A Key Employee  as defined in the IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan), the payment date for the Special Payment shall be the later of (a) the first business day that is six months after the date of your Separation from Service, or (b) the otherwise applicable payment date noted above.  
     
  If your employment terminates due to death, the Special Payment shall be paid to your estate within 90 days from your death in a lump sum payment (even if you are a 409A Key Employee).  If you Separate from Service as a result of disability (determined in accordance with the IBM Long-Term Disability Plan), the Special Payment shall be paid within 90 days from your separation in a lump sum payment.  
     
  The Special Payment is subject to applicable tax withholdings, and will not be considered compensation for purposes of any IBM employee benefit plan or program.  
     
    Additional Information:    
     
  As is customary at IBM, this offer is contingent upon the following:  
     
                        Compliance with the U.S. immigration law.  The law requires you to complete the U.S. Government Employment Eligibility Verification form (I-9) and to provide on your first day of employment documents that verify your identity and employment eligibility.  By accepting this offer, you will be required to comply with this law. 
     
                        Maintaining employment authorization from the United States Immigration Service.  As we have done in the past, IBM will continue to assist you, if required, in maintaining this authorization and will sponsor your application for permanent residency. 
     
                         As you know, IBM employees are required to comply with IBM s Business Conduct Guidelines.  As an IBM US employee, need to read these documents, and will be required to acknowledge receipt and compliance with the Business Conduct Guidelines. 
     
                        For your awareness, the terms of this offer letter do not create a contract of employment and do not entitle you to employment for any specific period of time.  Rather, your employment at IBM is at-will, which means that either party may terminate your employment at any time, for any reason, and without prior notice. 

January 28, 2015  
     
  Mr. Martin Jetter  
     
  Page  3   
     
  Please note that on your first day of IBM US employment you will be required to sign IBM s form regarding confidential information and intellectual property. If you would like to review or discuss this document in advance, please feel free to contact me.  
     
  Response requested on or before January 29, 2015.  

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 6
 a2230222zex-10_4.htm
 EX-10.4

Exhibit 10.4   
       
  SECOND AMENDMENT dated as of October 21, 2016  (this   Amendment  ) to the 5-Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 10, 2011 (the   Credit Agreement  ), among INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION (  IBM  ), JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent, the Subsidiary Borrowers parties thereto (the   Subsidiary Borrowers  ), the Lenders parties thereto, and the Syndication Agents and Documentation Agents named therein. Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Credit Agreement.  
     
   RECITALS   
     
  WHEREAS, IBM has requested that the Credit Agreement be amended as set forth herein.  
     
  WHEREAS, pursuant to, and in compliance with the requirements of,  Section 11.1  of the Credit Agreement, the Required Lenders are willing to agree to this Amendment on the terms set forth herein.  
     
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and mutual covenants contained herein, the parties hereto agree as follows:  
     
  SECTION 1.    Amendments to   Credit Agreement .   As of the Second Amendment Effective Date (as defined below), the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows: 
     
  (a)   By adding the following defined terms to Section 1.1 thereof in the appropriate alphabetical order: 
     
    Bail-In Action  : the exercise of any Write-Down and Conversion Powers by the applicable EEA Resolution Authority in respect of any liability of an EEA Financial Institution.  
     
    Bail-In Legislation  : with respect to any EEA Member Country implementing Article 55 of Directive 2014/59/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union, the implementing law for such EEA Member Country from time to time which is described in the EU Bail-In Legislation Schedule.  
     
    EEA Financial Institution  : (a) any credit institution or investment firm established in any EEA Member Country which is subject to the supervision of an EEA Resolution Authority, (b) any entity established in an EEA Member Country which is a parent of an institution described in clause (a) of this definition, or (c) any financial institution established in an EEA Member Country which is a subsidiary of an institution described in clauses (a) or (b) of this definition and is subject to consolidated supervision with its parent.  
     
    EEA Member Country  : any of the member states of the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, and Norway.  
     
    EEA Resolution Authority  : any public administrative authority or any Person entrusted with public administrative authority of any EEA Member Country (including any delegee) having responsibility for the resolution of any EEA Financial Institution.  
     
    EU Bail-In Legislation Schedule  : the EU Bail-In Legislation Schedule published by the Loan Market Association (or any successor Person), as in effect from time to time.  

Write-Down and Conversion Powers  : with respect to any EEA Resolution Authority, the write-down and conversion powers of such EEA Resolution Authority from time to time under the Bail-In Legislation for the applicable EEA Member Country, which write-down and conversion powers are described in the EU Bail-In Legislation Schedule.  
     
  (b)   By amending the definition of  Defaulting Lender  to add the following words immediately after the words  the subject of a Bankruptcy Event : 
     
   or a Bail-In Action   
     
  (c)   By amending the definition of  Eurodollar Rate  to replace the words  the rate of interest determined on the basis of the rate for deposits in Dollars  with the following words: 
     
   the London interbank offered rate as administered by ICE Benchmark Administration (or any other Person that takes over the administration of such rate for Dollars)   
     
  (d)   By amending the definition of  Eurodollar Rate  to add the following sentence to the end thereof: 
     
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Eurodollar Rate shall be less than zero, such rate shall be deemed to be zero for the purposes of this Agreement.   
     
  (e)   By amending the penultimate paragraph of Section 2.22 to add the following words immediately after the words  Bankruptcy Event : 
     
   or a Bail-In Action  and  
     
  (f)   By adding the following new Section 11.26: 
     
  11.26   EU Bail-In .  
     
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement or in any other agreement, arrangement or understanding among any such parties, each party hereto acknowledges that any liability of any Lender deemed to be an EEA Financial Institution arising under this Agreement may be subject to the write-down and conversion powers of an EEA Resolution Authority and agrees and consents to, and acknowledges and agrees to be bound by:  
     
  (a) the application of any Write-Down and Conversion Powers by an EEA Resolution Authority to any such liabilities arising hereunder which may be payable to it by any party hereto that is an EEA Financial Institution; and  
     
  (b) the effects of any Bail-In Action on any such liability, including, if applicable:  
     
  (i) a reduction in full or in part or cancellation of any such liability;  
     
  (ii) a conversion of all, or a portion of, such liability into shares or other instruments of ownership in such EEA Financial Institution, its parent entity, or a bridge institution that may be issued to it or otherwise conferred on it, and that such shares or other instruments of ownership   
     
 2   

will be accepted by it in lieu of any rights with respect to any such liability under this Agreement; or  
     
  (iii) the variation of the terms of such liability in connection with the exercise of the Write-Down and Conversion Powers of any EEA Resolution Authority.  
     
  SECTION 2.   Conditions to Effectiveness of    Second   Amendment .  This Amendment shall become effective on the first date (the   Second Amendment Effective Date  ) on which the Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received duly executed counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of IBM, the Subsidiary Borrowers and Lenders representing the Required Lenders. 
     
  SECTION 3.    Effects on   Credit Agreement .  Except as specifically amended herein, all provisions of the Credit Agreement shall continue to be in full force and effect and are hereby in all respects ratified and confirmed.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the execution, delivery and effectiveness of this Amendment shall not operate as a waiver of any right, power or remedy of any Lender or the Administrative Agent under the Credit Agreement or constitute a waiver of or consent to any departure from any term or provision of the Credit Agreement  or to any further or future action on the part of IBM or the Subsidiary Borrowers that would require a waiver or consent of the Required Lenders or the Administrative Agent. 
     
   SECTION 4.   Expenses  .  IBM shall reimburse the Administrative Agent for all reasonable and documented out-of-pocket costs and expenses, including, reasonable and documented attorneys  fees, in connection with or relating to this Amendment.  
     
  SECTION 5.    Integration .  This Amendment represents the agreement of IBM, the Subsidiary Borrowers, the Administrative Agent and the Lenders with respect to the subject matter hereof, and there are no promises, undertakings, representations or warranties by the Administrative Agent or any Lender relative to subject matter hereof not expressly set forth or referred to herein. 
     
  SECTION 6.    GOVERNING LAW  ; WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL .  THIS AMENDMENT AND THE RIGHTS AND OBLIGATIONS OF THE PARTIES UNDER THIS AMENDMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED AND INTERPRETED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAW OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. EACH OF THE BORROWERS, THE ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT AND THE LENDERS HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING RELATING TO THIS AMENDMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY AND FOR ANY COUNTERCLAIM THEREIN. 
     
  SECTION 7.    Counterparts .  This Amendment may be executed by one or more of the parties to this Amendment on any number of separate counterparts, and all of said counterparts taken together shall be deemed to constitute one and the same instrument.  Delivery of an executed signature page of this Agreement by email or facsimile transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart hereof.  A set of the copies of this Amendment signed by all the parties shall be lodged with IBM and the Administrative Agent. 
     
 3   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment to be duly executed and delivered by their respective proper and duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.  

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION           

By:        
 
  /s/ Simon Beaumont           

Title:        
 
  Vice President and Treasurer           

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK , N.A., as          

Administrative Agent  and Lender,          

By:        
 
  /s/ Donatus O. Anusionwu           

Title:         
 
  Vice President           

BNP PARIBAS           

By:        
 
  /s/ Mathew Harvey           

Title:        
 
  Managing Director           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Todd Rogers           

Title:        
 
  Director           

CITIBANK, N.A.           

By:        
 
  /s/ James Walsh           

Title:        
 
  Vice President and Managing Director           

ROYAL BANK OF CANADA           

By:        
 
  /s/ Mark Gronich           

Title:        
 
  Authorized Signatory           

MIZUHO BANK, LTD.           

By:        
 
  /s/ Daniel Guevara           

Title:        
 
  Authorized Signatory           

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A.           

By:        
 
  /s/ Mukesh Singh           

Title:        
 
  Vice President           

B ARCLAYS BANK PLC          

By:        
 
  /s/ Christopher M. Aitkin           

Title:        
 
  Assistant Vice President              
     
  [Signature Page to Second Amendment]  

DEUTSCHE BANK AG NEW YORK BRANCH           

By:        
 
  /s/ Ming K. Chu           

Title:        
 
  Director           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Virginia Cosenza           

Title:        
 
  Vice President           

HSBC Bank USA N.A.           

By:        
 
  /s/ Jonathan Yip           

Title:        
 
  Vice President           

Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.           

By:        
 
  /s/ Sid Khanolkar           

Title:        
 
  Director           

The Bank of   Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd.           

By:        
 
  /s/ Lillian Kim           

Title:        
 
  Director           

BANCO SANTANDER, S.A.           

By:        
 
  /s/ Federico Robin           

Title:        
 
  Executive Director           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Paloma Garca Castro           

Title:        
 
  Associate           

C OMMERZBANK AG,   NEW YORK BRANCH          

By:        
 
  /s/ Tom H.S. Kang           

Title:        
 
  Director           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Justin Hull           

Title:        
 
  Associate           

Credit Suisse  AG, Cayman Islands Branch          

By:        
 
  /s/ Christopher Day           

Title:        
 
  Authorized Signatory           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Karim Rahimtoola           

Title:        
 
  Authorized Signatory           

Goldman Sachs   Bank USA           

By:        
 
  /s/ Mehmet Barlas           

Title:        
 
  Authorized Signatory              
     
 5   

ING Bank N.V.,   Dublin Branch           

By:        
 
  /s/ Barry Fehily           

Title:        
 
  Managing Director           

and           

By:        
 
  Sean Hassett           

Title:        
 
  Director           

S OCIETE GENERALE          

By:        
 
  /s/ Kimberly Metzger           

Title:        
 
  Director           

U.S. Bank   National Association           

By:        
 
  /s/ Patrick McGraw           

Title:        
 
  Senior Vice President           

UniCredit   Bank AG, New York Branch           

By:          
 
  /s/   Filippo Pappalardo           

Title:          
 
  Managing   Director           

and           

By:          
 
  /s/   Bryon Korutz           

Title:          
 
  Associate   Director           

Bank   of China, New York           

By:          
 
  /s/   Haifeng Xu           

Title:          
 
  Executive   Vice President           

Mitsubishi   UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation           

By:          
 
  /s/   Kota Goto           

Title:          
 
  Senior   Vice President           

AUSTRALIA   AND NEW ZEALAND BANKING GROUP LIMITED           

By:          
 
  /s/   Robert Grillo           

Title:          
 
  Director           

PNC   BANK, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION           

By:          
 
  /s/   Michael Richards           

Title:          
 
  Senior   Vice President           

Standard   Chartered Bank           

By:          
 
  /s/   Steven Aloupis           

Title:          
 
  Managing   Director              
     
 6   

Sumitomo   Mitsui Banking Corporation           

By:          
 
  /s/   David W. Kee           

Title:          
 
  Managing   Director           

Toronto   Dominion (New York) LLC           

By:          
 
  /s/   Annie Dorval           

Title:          
 
  Authorized   Signatory           

BANCO   BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA, S.A.           

NEW   YORK BRANCH           

By:          
 
  /s/   Brian Crowley           

Title:          
 
  Managing   Director           

and           

By:          
 
  /s/   Cara Younger           

Title:          
 
  Director           

Banco   Bradesco S.A., New York Branch           

By:          
 
  /s/   Mauro Lopes           

Title:          
 
  Manager           

and           

By:          
 
  /s/   Adrian de A. da Graca e Costa           

Title:          
 
  Manager           

Canadian   Imperial Bank of Commerce, New York Branch           

By:          
 
  /s/   Robert Robin           

Title:          
 
  Authorized   Signatory           

and           

By:          
 
  /s/   Zhen Ma           

Title:          
 
  Authorized   Signatory           

Danske   Bank A/S           

By:          
 
  /s/   Merete Ryvald-Christensen           

Title:          
 
  Chief   Loan Officer           

and           

Name:          
 
  /s/   Gert Carstens           

Title:          
 
  Senior   Loan Manager           

Industrial   and Commercial Bank of China Limited           

New   York Branch           

By:          
 
  /s/   Yuanyuan Peng           

Title:          
 
  Vice   President           

and           

By:          
 
  /s/   Dayi Liu           

Title:          
 
  Director              
     
 7   

Lloyds   Bank plc           

By:        
 
  /s/ Erin Walsh           

Title:        
 
  Assistant Vice President, Transaction Execution           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Joel Slomko           

Title:        
 
  Assistant Vice President, Transaction Execution           

Raiffeisen Bank   International AG           

By:        
 
  /s/ Martina Soudek           

Title:        
 
  Director           

and           

By:        
 
  /s/ Christina de Cicillia           

Title:        
 
  Director           

State Street Bank   and Trust Company           

By:        
 
  /s/ Andrei Bourdine           

Title:        
 
  Vice President           

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON           

By:        
 
  /s/ Thomas J. Tarasovich, Jr.           

Title:        
 
  Vice President           

THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY           

By:        
 
  /s/ Sophia E. Love           

Title:        
 
  Senior Vice President              
     
 8   

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 7
 a2230222zex-10_5.htm
 EX-10.5

Exhibit 10.5   

October 21, 2016  
     
  International Business Machines Corporation  
  One New Orchard Road  
  Armonk, New York 10504  
     
  Attention:  Heather Wilson  
     
  Ladies and Gentlemen:  
     
  Reference is made to (i) the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 10, 2011 (as amended or modified from time to time, the   Credit Agreement  ) among International Business Machines Corporation., a New York corporation (  IBM  ), each Subsidiary Borrower (as defined in the Credit Agreement), the Lenders (as defined in the Credit Agreement), JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent for the Lenders and the other agents named therein and (ii) the Extension Request, dated as of September 21, 2016 (the   Extension Request  ), delivered by IBM to the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.21(a) of the Credit Agreement.  Capitalized terms used but not defined herein are used with the meanings assigned to them in the Credit Agreement.  
     
  We hereby confirm that, prior to the Extension Request Deadline specified in the Extension Request, we have received executed consents to the extension of the Termination Date requested in the Extension Request from each of the Lenders listed on  Schedule 1  hereto extending the Termination Date with respect to the Revolving Credit Commitments of such consenting Lenders to November 10, 2021. Also listed on  Schedule 1  are each Lender s respective Revolving Credit Commitment under the Credit Agreement as of the date hereof.  

Very truly yours,           

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK,   N.A., as Administrative           

Agent           

By:       
 
   /s/ Donatus Anusionwu           

Name: Donatus Anusionwu           

Title:Vice President              

Schedule 1   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-12>
 8
 a2230222zex-12.htm
 EX-12

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 12            

COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS   TO FIXED CHARGES   (Unaudited)            

(1)    Income
from continuing operations before income taxes excludes (a) amortization of capitalized interest and (b) the company's share in the income and
losses of less-than-fifty percent owned affiliates.     

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 12   
 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF INCOME FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS TO FIXED CHARGES (Unaudited)   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 9
 a2230222zex-13.htm
 EX-13

Exhibit 13   
     
   Report of Financials   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION        

Overview       
 
  26           

Forward-Looking and   Cautionary Statements       
 
  27           

Management Discussion   Snapshot       
 
  27           

Description of Business       
 
  30           

Year in Review       
 
  36           

Prior Year in Review       
 
  56           

Other Information       
 
  67           

Looking   Forward       
 
  67           

Liquidity   and Capital Resources       
 
  68           

Critical   Accounting Estimates       
 
  71           

Currency   Rate Fluctuations       
 
  74           

Market   Risk       
 
  74           

Cybersecurity       
 
  75           

Employees   and Related Workforce       
 
  76           

Global Financing       
 
  76           

Report of Management        
 
  82           

Report of Independent   Registered Public Accounting Firm        
 
  83           

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   STATEMENTS        

Earnings       
 
  84           

Comprehensive Income       
 
  85           

Financial Position       
 
  86           

Cash Flows       
 
  87           

Changes in Equity       
 
  88           

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL   STATEMENTS        

A   Significant   Accounting Policies      
 
  90           

B   Accounting   Changes      
 
  99           

C     Acquisitions/Divestitures      
 
  101           

D   Financial   Instruments      
 
  107           

E   Inventories      
 
  114           

F   Financing   Receivables      
 
  114           

G   Property,   Plant and Equipment      
 
  118           

H   Investments   and Sundry Assets      
 
  119           

I   Intangible   Assets Including Goodwill      
 
  119           

J   Borrowings      
 
  120           

K   Other   Liabilities      
 
  123           

L   Equity   Activity      
 
  123           

M     Contingencies and Commitments      
 
  127           

N   Taxes      
 
  129           

O   Research,   Development and Engineering      
 
  132           

P   Earnings   Per Share of Common Stock      
 
  132           

Q   Rental   Expense and Lease Commitments      
 
  133           

R   Stock-Based   Compensation      
 
  133           

S     Retirement-Related Benefits      
 
  136           

T   Segment   Information      
 
  150           

U   Subsequent   Events      
 
  154           

Five-Year Comparison of   Selected Financial Data        
 
  155           

Selected Quarterly Data        
 
  156           

Performance Graph        
 
  157           

Board of Directors and Senior   Leadership        
 
  158           

Stockholder Information        
 
  159              
     
 25   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   OVERVIEW   
     
  The financial section of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) 2016 Annual Report includes the Management Discussion, the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. This Overview is designed to provide the reader with some perspective regarding the information contained in the financial section.  
     
   Organization of Information   
     
                The Management Discussion is designed to provide readers with an overview of the business and a narrative on the company s financial results and certain factors that may affect its future prospects from the perspective of the company s management. The  Management Discussion Snapshot,  beginning on page 27, presents an overview of the key performance drivers in 2016. 
     
                Beginning with the  Year in Review  on page 36, the Management Discussion contains the results of operations for each reportable segment of the business and a discussion of the company s financial position and cash flows. Other key sections within the Management Discussion include:  Looking Forward  on page 67, and  Liquidity and Capital Resources  on page 68, which includes a description of management s definition and use of free cash flow. 
     
                Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity. A separate  Global Financing  section is included in the Management Discussion beginning on page 76. 
     
                The Consolidated Financial Statements are presented on pages 84 through 89. These statements provide an overview of the company s income and cash flow performance and its financial position. 
     
                Subsequent to the company s press release and Form 8-K filing on January 19, 2017, announcing 2016 fourth-quarter and full-year financial results, the company revised the classification of certain financing receivables on a full-year basis increasing net cash provided by operating activities and net cash used in investing activities in the amount of $441 million. As adjusted, net cash provided by operating activities for the three months and twelve months ended December 31, 2016 is $3,968 million and $16,958 million, respectively, and, net cash used in investing activities is $3,687 million and $10,976 million for the same periods. There was no impact to total GAAP cash flows or free cash flow. 
     
                The Notes follow the Consolidated Financial Statements. Among other items, the Notes contain the company s accounting policies (pages 90 to 99), acquisitions and divestitures (pages 101 to 106), detailed information on specific items within the financial statements, certain contingencies and commitments (pages 127 to 129) and retirement-related plans information (pages 136 to 150). 
     
                The Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). 
     
                In October 2014, the company announced a definitive agreement to divest its Microelectronics business. The assets and liabilities of the Microelectronics business were reported as held for sale at December 31, 2014 and the operating results of the Microelectronics business have been reported as discontinued operations. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. 
     
                In January 2016, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system. These changes impacted the company s reportable segments, but did not impact the company s Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to Note T,  Segment Information,  on pages 150 to 154 for additional information on the changes in reportable segments. The company s reportable segments are: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, Systems, and Global Financing. The company filed a recast 2015 Annual Report in a Form 8-K on June 13, 2016 to recast its historical segment information to reflect these changes. 
     
                The references to  adjusted for currency  or  at constant currency  in the Management Discussion do not include operational impacts that could result from fluctuations in foreign currency rates. When the company refers to growth rates at constant currency or adjusts such growth rates for currency, it is done so that certain financial results can be viewed without the impact of fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, thereby facilitating period-to-period comparisons of its business performance. Financial results adjusted for currency are calculated by translating current period activity in local currency using the comparable prior year period s currency conversion rate. This approach is used for countries where the functional currency is the local currency. Generally, when the dollar either strengthens or weakens against other currencies, the growth at constant currency rates or adjusting for currency will be higher or lower than growth reported at actual exchange rates. See  Currency Rate Fluctuations  on page 74 for additional information. 
     
                Within the financial statements and tables in this Annual Report, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages reported are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar numbers. 
     
   Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings   
     
  In an effort to provide better transparency into the operational results of the business, the company separates business results into operating and non-operating categories. Operating earnings from continuing operations is a non-GAAP measure that excludes the effects of certain acquisition-related charges, retirement-related costs, discontinued operations and related tax impacts. For acquisitions, operating earnings exclude the amortization of purchased intangible assets and acquisition-related charges such as in-process research and development, transaction costs, applicable restructuring and related expenses and tax charges related to acquisition integration. These charges are excluded as they may be inconsistent in amount and timing from period to period and are dependent on the size, type and  
     
 26   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  frequency of the company s acquisitions. For retirement-related costs, the company characterizes certain items as operating and others as non-operating. The company includes defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan service cost, amortization of prior service cost and the cost of defined contribution plans in operating earnings. Non-operating retirement-related cost includes defined benefit plan and nonpension postretirement benefit plan interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortized actuarial gains/losses, the impacts of any plan curtailments/settlements and multi-employer plan costs, pension insolvency costs and other costs. Non-operating retirement-related costs are primarily related to changes in pension plan assets and liabilities which are tied to financial market performance and the company considers these costs to be outside of the operational performance of the business.  
     
  Overall, the company believes that providing investors with a view of operating earnings as described above provides increased transparency and clarity into both the operational results of the business and the performance of the company s pension plans; improves visibility to management decisions and their impacts on operational performance; enables better comparison to peer companies; and allows the company to provide a long-term strategic view of the business going forward. The company s reportable segment financial results reflect operating earnings from continuing operations, consistent with the company s management and measurement system.  
     
   FORWARD-LOOKING AND CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS   
     
  Certain statements contained in this Annual Report may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any forward-looking statement in this Annual Report speaks only as of the date on which it is made; the company assumes no obligation to update or revise any such statements. Forward-looking statements are based on the company s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance; these statements, by their nature, address matters that are uncertain to different degrees. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to be materially different, as discussed more fully elsewhere in this Annual Report and in the company s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the company s 2016 Form 10-K filed on February 28, 2017.  
     
   MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION SNAPSHOT   
     
  ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*                    (1.6) percent adjusted for currency 
  **             At December 31 
     
 27   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table provides the company s (non-GAAP) operating earnings for 2016 and 2015  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

* See pages 48 and 49 for a more detailed reconciliation of net income to operating earnings.  
     
  In 2016, the company reported $79.9 billion in revenue, $11.9 billion in income from continuing operations and $13.0 billion in operating (non-GAAP) earnings, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $12.39 as reported and $13.59 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The results of continuing operations exclude a net loss from discontinued operations of $9 million in 2016 and $174 million in 2015 related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business. On a consolidated basis, net income in 2016 was $11.9 billion, with diluted earnings per share of $12.38. The company generated $17.0 billion in cash from operations and $11.6 billion in free cash flow and shareholder returns of $8.8 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.  
     
  There are significant opportunities and shifts occurring in the IT industry, and the company believes that to be successful with enterprise clients, it needs to bring together cognitive technologies on cloud platforms that create industry-based solutions to solve real-world problems. In 2016, the company continued to:  
     
                   Deliver strong results in the strategic imperatives; 
     
                   Make progress in building new businesses and creating new markets; 
     
                   Deliver innovation in the more traditional businesses and monetize core technologies; and 
     
                   Return capital to shareholders. 
     
  Total consolidated revenue in 2016 decreased 2.2 percent as reported and 1.6 percent year to year adjusted for currency. Annuity revenue increased as reported and adjusted for currency while transactional revenue declined year to year. In addition, acquisitions completed in the past 12 months contributed to revenue growth.  
     
  The 2016 results reflect the success the company is having in its strategic imperatives and the investments made to drive that shift. The company had continued strong revenue growth in cloud, analytics and engagement, which together grew 13 percent year to year as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency. In 2016, the strategic imperatives generated $32.8 billion in revenue, which represented 41 percent of the company s revenue, an increase of 6 points from 2015. Total Cloud revenue of $13.7 billion increased 35 percent both as reported and adjusted for currency, with cloud as-a-Service revenue up 55 percent as reported and 57 percent adjusted for currency. The company exited 2016 with an annual run rate for cloud as-a-Service revenue of $8.6 billion, up from $5.3 billion at the end of 2015. Analytics revenue of $19.5 billion increased 9 percent as reported and adjusted for currency. Mobile revenue increased 34 percent year to year as reported (35 percent adjusted for currency) and Security revenue increased 13 percent as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue increased 1.9 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency with growth in Solutions Software, led by an increase in Analytics and Security revenue; partially offset by a decline in Transaction Processing Software. Global Business Services (GBS) revenue decreased 2.7 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency primarily driven by a decline in Consulting revenue. Revenue performance continued to be impacted by the company s shift away from traditional businesses, such as ERP implementations. GBS strategic imperatives revenue had double-digit growth year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue increased 0.6 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency led by growth in Infrastructure Services as the company assists clients in modernizing and transforming their infrastructures. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms strategic imperatives revenue was up 39 percent (40 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Systems revenue decreased 19.2 percent (19 percent adjusted for currency) with z Systems down 27.1 percent (27 percent adjusted for currency) and Power Systems down 27.1 percent (27 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
 28   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue decreased 2.5 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) with the U.S. down 0.9 percent. Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) revenue decreased 5.0 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency). Asia Pacific revenue increased 2.6 percent as reported, but decreased 1 percent adjusted for currency with Japan up 10.5 percent as reported, but down 1 percent adjusted for currency.  
     
  The consolidated gross profit margin of 47.9 percent decreased 1.9 points year to year and reflects the impact of the company s investments, including acquisitions, and mix in as-a-Service which is not yet at scale. The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 48.9 percent decreased 1.9 points compared to 2015 driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Total expense and other (income) increased 4.9 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) increased 5.6 percent compared to 2015. The key year-to-year drivers were:  

Total        

Operating        

Consolidated        

(non-GAAP)        

Currency*      

2 points       

2 points       

Acquisitions**      

5 points       

4 points       

Base      

(2) points       

0 points       

*                    Reflects impacts of translation and hedging programs 
  **             Includes acquisitions completed in prior 12-month period; operating (non-GAAP) is net of non-operating acquisition-related charges. 
     
  The increase in expense was driven primarily by the impact of acquisitions completed in the prior 12 months and an impact from currency. Base expense performance reflects a higher level of intellectual property (IP) income ($950 million) year to year driven primarily by the company s software licensing arrangements. Base expense also includes charges in 2016 for actions taken to accelerate the transformation of the company s workforce and shift its skill base, as well as increased investments in the strategic areas of cognitive, security and cloud. This included a higher level of workforce rebalancing charges ($451 million) year to year and real estate capacity charges ($291 million) related to the workforce transformation. The company continued to invest at a high level in 2016 and remixed skills in support of the strategic imperatives.  
     
  Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $12.3 billion decreased 22.7 percent year to year and the pre-tax margin was 15.4 percent, a decrease of 4.1 points versus 2015. The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2016 was 3.6 percent, a decrease of 12.5 points versus 2015. The tax rate in 2016 was primarily the result of a refund ($1.0 billion) of previously paid non-U.S. taxes plus interest in the first quarter of 2016. Income from continuing operations of $11.9 billion decreased 11.1 percent and the net income margin was 14.9 percent, a decrease of 1.5 points versus 2015. Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax, were $9 million in 2016 compared to $174 million in 2015. Net income of $11.9 billion decreased 10.0 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $13.9 billion decreased 21.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 4.2 points to 17.4 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $13.0 billion decreased 11.1 percent and the operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 16.3 percent decreased 1.6 points. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in 2016 was 6.5 percent versus 17.2 percent in 2015.  
     
  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $12.39 in 2016 decreased 8.9 percent year to year. In 2016, the company repurchased 23.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $3.5 billion and had $5.1 billion remaining in the share repurchase authorization at December 31, 2016. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $13.59 decreased 8.9 percent versus 2015. Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations was ($0.01) in 2016 compared to ($0.18) in 2015.  
     
  At December 31, 2016, the company continued to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2016 were $8.5 billion, an increase of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2015. Key drivers in the balance sheet and total cash flows were:  
     
  Total assets increased $7.0 billion ($7.7 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2015 driven by:  
     
                   Increases in goodwill ($4.2 billion), retirement plan assets ($1.3 billion), net intangible assets ($1.2 billion), deferred taxes ($0.4 billion) and cash and marketable securities ($0.3 billion). 
     
  Total liabilities increased $3.0 billion ($3.9 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2015 driven by:  
     
                   Increases in total debt ($2.3 billion), retirement-related liabilities ($0.6 billion) and taxes ($0.4 billion). 
     
  Total equity of $18.4 billion increased $4.0 billion from December 31, 2015 as a result of:  
     
                   Increases from net income ($11.9 billion) and stock-based compensation ($0.5 billion); partially offset by 
     
                   Decreases from dividends ($5.3 billion) and share repurchases ($3.5 billion). 
     
  The company generated $17.0 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, essentially flat compared to 2015, driven primarily by operational performance; offset by lower income tax payments. Net cash used in investing activities of $11.0 billion was $2.8 billion higher than 2015, primarily driven by an increase in cash used related to acquisitions ($2.3 billion). Net cash used in financing activities of $5.8 billion decreased $3.4 billion compared to the prior year, driven primarily by higher net debt issuances ($2.7 billion) and a decline in cash used for common share repurchases ($1.1 billion).  
     
 29   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In January 2017, the company disclosed that it is expecting GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations of at least $11.95 and operating (non-GAAP) earnings of at least $13.80 per diluted share for 2017. The company expects 2017 free cash flow realization to be in excess of 90 percent of GAAP net income and free cash flow to be essentially flat year to year. Refer to page 69 in the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on this non-GAAP measure. Refer to the Looking Forward section on pages 67 and 68 for additional information on the company s expectations.  
     
   DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS   
     
  Please refer to IBM s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on February 28, 2017 for Item 1A. entitled  Risk Factors.   
     
  The company creates value for clients through integrated solutions and products that leverage: data, information technology, deep expertise in industries and business processes, and a broad ecosystem of partners and alliances. IBM solutions typically create value by enabling new capabilities for clients that transform their businesses and help them engage with their customers and employees in new ways. These solutions draw from an industry-leading portfolio of consulting and IT implementation services, cloud and cognitive offerings, and enterprise systems and software; all bolstered by one of the world s leading research organizations.  
     
   Strategy   
     
  IBM has a history of continuous re-invention, transforming itself throughout its 100-plus year history. In the past five decades alone, IBM has ushered in the eras of the mainframe, the personal computer, IT services and enterprise software. In its current transformation, IBM is once again leading the reordering of the technology industry.  
     
  A number of years ago, the company declared its focus on the strategic forces behind the  digital  revolution; data, cloud and engagement, driven by mobile and social, and underpinned by security. Since 2010, IBM has invested approximately $40 billion in these areas, built out the IBM Cloud on a global scale and extended cognitive systems to numerous enterprises and industries. The company made 55 acquisitions and has formed partnerships with organizations that are leading players in key industries.  
     
  Because of this transformation, IBM today is much more than a hardware, software and services company; IBM is a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company, with a focus on industry capabilities and expertise:  
     
   Cognitive Solutions:   With the highest level of intelligence that exists in technology systems, these solutions tackle challenges ranging from answering client inquiries to helping physicians fight cancer. 
     
   Cloud Platform:   IBM Cloud is the leading cloud platform for the enterprise, providing what enterprises need for speed, agility and, combined with Watson, for cognitive capability. 
     
   Industry Focus:   As IBM brings higher levels of value to its clients, as its offerings are being built for the needs of individual industries. Healthcare and Financial Services are two examples of the company s initial cognitive focus. 
     
   Cognitive Solutions   
     
  Since IBM s Watson was introduced in 2011, the company has been developing a new generation of cognitive systems that can see and analyze the massive amounts of data that have previously been invisible to computers and enterprises. IBM s cognitive systems have the capability to inject a kind of thinking ability into every digitized object, process and service, and learn from interactions. IBM is on the forefront of deploying these systems and helping clients to embrace the cognitive era.  
     
  Cognitive systems are not programmed; like humans, they learn from experts and from every interaction, and they are uniquely able to find patterns in big data. They learn by using advanced algorithms to sense, predict and infer. Doing so, they augment human intelligence, allowing individuals to make faster and more informed decisions.  
     
  Since Watson s debut, many technologies have entered the market under the banner of artificial intelligence. However, IBM s approach to cognitive systems is quite unique:  
     
                   Highly adaptable intelligence systems: Watson has broad applicability and can help clients tackle challenges ranging from oncology to customer support. 
     
                   Protect and respect client data: Watson learns through data, both public data as well as clients  private data. Clients choose whether their data or insights are shared. IBM respects the clients  ownership and control of their own data. 
     
                   Easy entry points: Watson s open APIs offer easy on-ramps to experiment with speech, vision and other data. 
     
                   Trained in domain depth: Watson is trained to be an expert in industries and functional specialties. It augments the knowledge of professionals, giving them access to the insights of their best colleagues and the world s leading experts. 
     
                   Transformational services: IBM s Cognitive Solutions and Watson Internet of Things (IoT) practices help clients build their cognitive strategies. GBS provides outcome-focused methodologies, domain skills and deep industry expertise. 
     
 30   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cloud Platform   
     
  Cloud represents more than a new architecture for delivering infrastructure and applications as services; it is also a catalyst for innovation, speed and agility. Cloud enables companies to focus on differentiating their strategies, capabilities and business models rather than on the underlying technology.  
     
  The IBM Cloud brings a unique set of characteristics to clients:  
     
                   It is a world-class cloud platform designed for enterprises, where security, reliability, scalability and performance are critical. 
     
                   It is the industry-leading hybrid cloud, enabling clients to extend their existing IT investments, connecting valuable data and applications across public and private clouds. 
     
                   It is a world-class cognitive cloud platform with IBM Watson services that developers can embed into their applications to create differentiating customer experiences and powerful insights. 
     
  The IBM Cloud has a strong global presence, with more than 50 cloud data centers around the world giving clients the flexibility to optimize the deployment of data and application, for performance, security and compliance.  
     
  The IBM Cloud is also continually expanding its base of advanced capabilities including cloud data services, cloud object storage, cloud video services, as well as Internet of Things, blockchain and analytics services. In 2016, IBM brought new cognitive solutions to professionals in marketing, commerce, supply chain and human resources, extending industry clouds to further differentiate its cloud offerings.  
     
   Industry Focus   
     
  To bring higher value to clients, IBM is providing solutions that are specific and tailored to challenges clients face in their industry, using the power of IBM s advanced cognitive computing capabilities built on the IBM Cloud. In 2016, IBM deepened its commitment to delivering higher value in several key ways:  
     
                   In the healthcare industry, IBM Watson Health combines the power of cloud and cognitive with value-based solutions to optimize performance, engage consumers, enable effective care and manage population health. Significant investment in the healthcare space, including the acquisition of Merge and Truven, has enabled the company to expand the scope of solutions aimed at solving some of the most pressing health challenges. 
     
                   IBM continues to partner with financial services clients to build a robust infrastructure addressing increasingly complex and fast-changing demands. From preventing fraud to supporting cyber security efforts, IBM is becoming ever-more essential to the financial industry. 
     
                   IBM offers analytics to help clients assess their risk and compliance against industry guidelines, and uses a cognitive approach to provide deeper and faster findings. In late 2016, the company acquired Promontory Financial Group, LLC (Promontory), one of the world s leading regulatory consulting firms. Promontory is training Watson to be a market-leading expert in the regulatory field, which will allow the company to deliver services at new levels of efficiency and transparency. 
     
                   IBM is committed to blockchain to provide a highly secure method of facilitating multi-step transactions, reducing the number of disputes and points of friction, including its participation in the Hyperledger Project. This cross-industry consortium is working to build the blockchain network in the cloud, doing for trusted transactions what the Internet did for information, and setting industry standards for years to come. Blockchain will enable financial institutions to settle securities in minutes instead of days; manufacturers to reduce product recalls by sharing production logs along their supply chain; and businesses of all types to more closely manage the flow of goods and payments. IBM is working with companies ranging from retailers, banks and shippers to apply this technology to transform their ecosystems through open standards and open platforms. 
     
                   IBM s Global Business Services consulting business, with broad expertise across industries and a strong global footprint and scale, provides a unique combination of technologies and services to help clients achieve their business outcomes. 
     
 31   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Transforming Core Businesses   
     
  While the company is focused on cognitive solutions, cloud platform and industry, it is important to note cognitive, cloud and industry are being embedded across IBM s offerings. These core businesses continue to run clients  most critical business processes. IBM s hardware systems are being designed from the ground up to power the cloud and cognitive systems of the future. The company s technology services help clients move to the cloud, embedding cognitive capabilities tailored for their industry. The company s software offerings are simultaneously being made available for the cloud as well as being connected to the cloud where our clients choose to keep them on premises. Additionally, cognitive capabilities are being added to these offerings to provide new levels of innovation. In short, all of IBM is transforming to support the way its clients are transforming.  
     
   Summary   
     
  Each transformation of IBM ushers in a new capability to the world. More than 50 years ago, IBM introduced the programmable era and transformed the world s transactions through the mainframe. In the decades that followed, IBM commercialized the personal computer, created an industry around IT services and a software market around middleware. Each of these innovations remains essential to business and the world today.  
     
  The company s current chapter is ushering in an entirely new era of human-computer interaction, embodied in cognitive solutions and the cloud platform for the needs of industries. The company is embarking on an era where it will create new capabilities at speeds and depth never previously witnessed.  
     
   Business Model   
     
  The company s business model is built to support two principal goals: helping enterprise clients to become more innovative, efficient and competitive through the application of business insight and IT solutions; and providing long-term value to shareholders. The business model has been developed over time through strategic investments in capabilities and technologies that have superior long-term growth and profitability prospects based on the value they deliver to clients.  
     
  The company s global capabilities as a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company include services, software, systems, fundamental research and related financing. The broad mix of businesses and capabilities are combined to provide integrated solutions and platforms to the company s clients.  
     
  The business model is dynamic, adapting to the continuously changing industry and economic environment, including the company s transformation into cloud and as-a-Service delivery models. The company continues to strengthen its position through strategic organic investments and acquisitions in higher-value areas, strengthening its industry expertise and applying advanced analytics across virtually all its offerings. In addition, the company is transforming into a more agile enterprise to drive innovation and speed, as well as helping to drive productivity, which supports investments for participation in markets with significant long-term opportunity.  
     
  This business model, supported by the company s financial model, has enabled the company to deliver strong earnings, cash flows and returns to shareholders over the long term.  
     
   Business Segments and Capabilities   
     
  The company s major operations consist of five business segments: Cognitive Solutions, Global Business Services, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, Systems and Global Financing.  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   comprises a broad portfolio of capabilities that help IBM s clients to identify actionable new insights and inform decision-making for competitive advantage. Leveraging IBM s research, technology and industry expertise, this business delivers a full spectrum of capabilities, from descriptive, predictive and prescriptive analytics to cognitive systems. Cognitive Solutions includes Watson, the first commercially available cognitive computing platform that has the ability to interact in natural language, process vast amounts of big data, and learn from interactions with people and computers. These solutions are provided through the most contemporary delivery methods including through cloud environments and  as-a-Service  models. Cognitive Solutions consists of Solutions Software and Transaction Processing Software. 
     
   Cognitive Solutions Capabilities   
     
   Solutions Software:   provides the basis for many of the company s strategic areas including analytics, security and social. IBM has established the world s deepest portfolio of data and analytics solutions, including analytics and data management platforms, cloud data services, enterprise social software, talent management solutions, and solutions tailored by industry. Watson Platform, Watson Health and Watson Internet of Things capabilities are included in Solutions Software. IBM s world-class security platform delivers integrated security intelligence across clients  entire operations, including their cloud, applications, networks and data, helping them to prevent, detect and remediate potential threats. 
     
 32   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Transaction Processing Software:   includes software that primarily runs mission-critical systems in industries such as banking, airlines and retail. Most of this software is on-premise and annuity in nature. 
     
   Global Business Services (GBS)   provides clients with consulting, application management services and global process services. These professional services deliver business value and innovation to clients through solutions which leverage industry, technology and business process expertise. GBS is the digital reinvention partner for IBM clients, combining industry knowledge, functional expertise, and applications with the power of design, cognitive and cloud. The full portfolio of GBS services is backed by its globally integrated delivery network and integration with IBM solutions and services including Watson, cloud, blockchain, and Technology Services. To deepen its capabilities, in 2016 IBM acquired four consulting and design firms to enhance the GBS global network of 35 digital experience design studios. IBM also announced Watson IoT Consulting Solutions, a new practice that brings together IBM s industry and technical expertise to help clients introduce IoT innovation into their businesses. 
     
   GBS Capabilities   
     
   Consulting:   provides business consulting services focused on bringing to market solutions that help clients shape their digital blueprints and customer experiences, define their cognitive operating models, set their next-generation talent strategies and create new technology visions and architectures in a cloud-centric world. 
     
   Application Management:   delivers system integration, application management, maintenance and support services for packaged software, as well as custom and legacy applications. Value is delivered through advanced capabilities in areas such as security and privacy, application testing and modernization, cloud application migration and automation. 
     
   Global Process Services:   GBS  business process outsourcing service line, delivers finance, procurement, HR, and industry-specific business processes. These services deliver improved business results to clients through the strategic change and/or operation of the client s business processes, applications and infrastructure. GBS is redefining the efficiency and cost profiles of clients  core processes through the application of the power of Watson, cognitive and deep analytics. 
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   provides comprehensive IT infrastructure services creating business value for clients through integrated services that incorporate unique intellectual property within its global delivery model. By leveraging insights and experience drawn from IBM s global scale, skills and technology, with applied innovation from IBM Research, clients gain access to leading edge, high-quality services with improved productivity, flexibility, cost and outcomes. 
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms Capabilities   
     
   Infrastructure Services:   delivers a portfolio of cloud, project-based, outsourcing and other managed services focused on clients  enterprise IT infrastructure environments to enable digital transformation and deliver improved quality, flexibility, risk management and financial value. The portfolio includes a comprehensive set of hybrid cloud services and solutions to assist clients in building and running enterprise IT environments that utilize public and private clouds and traditional IT. The IBM Cloud Platform offers leading edge services to developers and IBM s Cloud Infrastructure-as-a-Service covers a wide variety of workloads with unprecedented performance. These offerings integrate long-standing expertise in service management and technology with the ability to utilize the power of new technologies, including those from other IBM business segments. The portfolio is built around a key set of predictive and proactive solutions addressing systems, mobility, resiliency, networking, cloud and security. The company s capabilities, including IBM Cloud, cognitive computing and hybrid cloud implementation, can help to deliver high-performance, end-to-end innovation and an improved ability to achieve business objectives. 
     
   Technical Support Services:   delivers a comprehensive line of support services to maintain and improve the availability of clients  IT infrastructures. These offerings include maintenance for IBM products and other technology platforms, as well as software and solution support. 
     
   Integration Software:   delivers industry-leading hybrid cloud solutions that empower clients to achieve rapid innovation, hybrid integration, and process transformation with choice and consistency across public, dedicated and local cloud environments, leveraging IBM s Bluemix Platform-as-a-Service solution. Integration Software offerings and capabilities help clients address the digital imperatives to create, connect and optimize their applications, data and infrastructure on their journey to become cognitive businesses. 
     
 33   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Systems   provides clients with innovative infrastructure technologies to help meet the new requirements of hybrid cloud and cognitive workloads from deploying advanced analytics, to moving to digital service delivery with the cloud, and securing mobile transaction processing. Approximately half of Systems Hardware s server and storage sales transactions are through the company s business partners, with the balance direct to end-user clients. IBM Systems also designs advanced semiconductor and systems technology in collaboration with IBM Research, primarily for use in the company s systems. 
     
   Systems Capabilities   
     
   Servers:   a range of high-performance systems designed to address computing capacity, security and performance needs of businesses, hyperscale cloud service providers and scientific computing organizations. The portfolio includes z Systems, a trusted enterprise platform for integrating data, transactions and insight, and Power Systems, a system designed from the ground up for big data and analytics, optimized for scale-out cloud and Linux, and delivering open innovation with OpenPOWER. 
     
  The company is a founding member of the OpenPOWER foundation, a group of industry-leading companies developing high-performance compute technologies and solutions based on the IBM POWER architecture.  
     
   Storage:   data storage products and solutions that allow clients to retain and manage rapidly growing, complex volumes of digital information and to fuel data-centric cognitive applications. These solutions address critical client requirements for information retention and archiving, security, compliance and storage optimization including data deduplication, availability and virtualization. The portfolio consists of a broad range of software-defined storage solutions, flash storage, disk and tape storage solutions. 
     
   Operating Systems Software:   The company s z/OS is a security-rich, scalable, high-performance enterprise operating system for z Systems. Power Systems offers a choice of AIX or Linux operating systems. These operating systems leverage POWER architecture to deliver secure, reliable and high- performing enterprise-class workloads across a breadth of server offerings. 
     
   Global Financing   facilitates IBM clients  acquisition of information technology systems, software and services by providing financing solutions in the areas where the company has the expertise. The financing arrangements are predominantly for products or services that are critical to the end users  business operations. These financing contracts are entered into after a comprehensive credit evaluation and are secured by legal contracts. As a captive financier, Global Financing has the benefit of both deep knowledge of its client base and a clear insight into the products and services financed. These factors allow the business to effectively manage two of the major risks, credit and residual value, associated with financing while generating strong returns on equity. Global Financing also maintains a long-term partnership with the companies  clients through various stages of IT asset life cycle from initial purchase and technology upgrades to asset disposition decisions. 
     
   Global Financing Capabilities   
     
   Client Financing:   lease, installment payment plan and loan financing to end users and internal clients for terms up to seven years. Assets financed are primarily new and used IT hardware, software and services where the company has expertise. Internal financing is predominantly in support of Technology Services   Cloud Platforms  long-term client service contracts. All internal financing arrangements are at arm s-length rates and are based upon market conditions. 
     
   Commercial Financing:   short-term inventory and accounts receivable financing to suppliers, distributors and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. This includes internal activity where Global Financing factors a selected portion of the company s accounts receivable primarily for cash management purposes, at arm s-length rates. 
     
   Remanufacturing and Remarketing:   assets include used equipment returned from lease transactions, or used and surplus equipment acquired internally or externally. These assets may be refurbished or upgraded and sold or leased to new or existing clients both externally or internally. Externally remarketed equipment revenue represents sales or leases to clients and resellers. Internally remarketed equipment revenue primarily represents used equipment that is sold internally to Systems and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms. Systems may also sell the equipment that it purchases from Global Financing to external clients. 
     
 34   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   IBM Worldwide Organizations   
     
  The following worldwide organizations play key roles in IBM s delivery of value to its clients:  
     
          Global Markets (formerly Sales and Distribution) 
     
          Research, Development and Intellectual Property 
     
          Integrated Supply Chain 
     
   Global Markets   
     
  IBM has a global presence, operating in more than 175 countries with a broad-based geographic distribution of revenue. The company s Global Markets organization manages IBM s global footprint, working closely with dedicated country-based operating units to serve clients locally. These country teams have client relationship managers who lead integrated teams of consultants, solution specialists and delivery professionals to enable clients  growth and innovation. These local teams develop deep relationships with their clients to bring together capabilities from IBM and its network of Business Partners to develop and implement solutions.  
     
  By complementing local expertise with global experience and digital capabilities, IBM builds broad-based client relationships. This local management focus fosters speed in addressing new markets and making investments in emerging opportunities. The Global Markets organization serves clients with expertise in their industry as well as through the products and services that IBM and partners supply. IBM is also expanding its reach to smaller clients through digital marketing, digital marketplaces, inside sales and local Business Partner resources.  
     
  IBM continues to invest to capture opportunities in key growth markets around the world India, China and Southeast Asia; Eastern Europe; the Middle East and Africa; and Latin America. Major IBM markets include the G7 countries of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United States (U.S.) and the United Kingdom (U.K.), as well as Austria, the Bahamas, Belgium, the Caribbean, Cyprus, Denmark, Finland, Greece, Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Malta, the Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, Spain, Sweden and Switzerland.  
     
   Research, Development and Intellectual Property   
     
  IBM s research and development (R D) operations differentiate the company from its competitors. IBM annually invests 6 to 7 percent of total revenue for R D, focusing on high-growth, high-value opportunities. IBM Research works with clients and the company s business units through global labs on near-term and midterm innovations. It contributes many new technologies to IBM s portfolio every year and helps clients address their most difficult challenges. IBM Research scientists are conducting pioneering work in artificial intelligence, analytics, security, nanotechnology, cloud computing, blockchain, quantum computing, silicon and post-silicon computing architectures, data-centric systems and more applying these technologies across industries including healthcare, Internet of Things, education and financial services.  
     
  In 2016, IBM was awarded more U.S. patents than any other company for the 24th consecutive year. IBM s 8,088 patents awarded in 2016 represent a diverse range of inventions in artificial intelligence and cognitive computing, cognitive health, cloud, cybersecurity and other strategic growth areas for the company.  
     
  The company continues to actively seek intellectual property (IP) protection for its innovations, while increasing emphasis on other initiatives designed to leverage its IP leadership. Some of IBM s technological breakthroughs are used exclusively in IBM products, while others are licensed and may be used in IBM products and/or the products of the licensee. As part of its business model, the company licenses certain of its intellectual property, which is high-value technology, but may be in more mature markets. The licensee drives the future development of the IP and ultimately expands the customer base. This generates IP income for the company both upon licensing, and with ongoing royalty arrangements between it and the licensee. While the company s various proprietary IP rights are important to its success, IBM believes its business as a whole is not materially dependent on any particular patent or license, or any particular group of patents or licenses. IBM owns or is licensed under a number of patents, which vary in duration, relating to its products.  
     
   Integrated Supply Chain   
     
  IBM has an extensive integrated supply chain, procuring materials and services globally. Additionally, growth in client spend managed by IBM s procurement organization continues to demonstrate clients  faith that IBM can reduce clients  cost through the transformation of source-to-pay operations. The supply, manufacturing and logistics operations are seamlessly integrated and have optimized inventories over time. Simplifying and streamlining internal processes has improved sales force productivity and operational effectiveness and efficiency. Supply chain resiliency enables IBM to reduce its risk during marketplace changes.  
     
  The company continues to derive business value from its own globally integrated supply chain providing a strategic advantage for the company to create value for clients. IBM leverages its supply chain expertise for clients through its supply chain business transformation outsourcing service to optimize and help operate clients  end-to-end supply chain processes, from procurement to logistics. Utilizing analytics, mobile, cloud and social with numerous projects, has allowed the integrated supply chain to drive positive business outcomes for the company and its clients.  
     
 35   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   YEAR IN REVIEW   
     
   Results of Continuing Operations   
     
   Segment Details   
     
  The following is an analysis of the 2016 versus 2015 reportable segment results. The table below presents each reportable segment s external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Cognitive Solutions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Cognitive Solutions revenue of $18,187 million grew 1.9 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency in 2016 compared to the prior year. On an as reported and constant currency basis, growth in Solutions Software, which addresses many of the company s strategic areas, was partially offset by declines in Transaction Processing Software.  
     
  Solutions Software revenue of $12,589 million grew 4.7 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. This growth was led by analytics and security offerings. Analytics, which is the largest portion of the Solutions Software portfolio, continued to grow in key areas including Watson offerings such as Watson Health. Security also contributed to year-to-year growth, as the company continues to invest to build its security platform. There was strong Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) performance during the year with double-digit growth in revenue as reported and adjusted for currency. In 2016, five acquisitions, including The Weather Company and Truven, added substantial new capabilities to the Solutions Software portfolio.  
     
  Throughout the year, the Watson platform, which underpins the company s cognitive strategy, continued to gain momentum, as the company expanded cognitive capabilities in the IBM Cloud.  
     
 36   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company broadened the reach of Watson, with new capabilities, partnerships and engagement to accelerate adoption. Focus continues on scaling Watson Health and bringing real world benefits to researchers and clinicians. Watson IoT is growing and clients are using the power of Watson across the immense data pool created by the Internet of Things. The company is expanding its industry differentiation and focus on building industry verticals including the acquisition of Promontory in the fourth quarter.  
     
  Transaction Processing Software revenue of $5,598 million declined 3.8 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Most of this software is on-premise and annuity in nature which is not a growing part of the software opportunity.  
     
  Within Cognitive Solutions, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $11.7 billion grew 7 percent as reported (8 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $2.1 billion grew 53 percent as reported (54 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.8 billion.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 3.3 points to 81.9 percent in 2016. Pre-tax income of $6,352 million decreased 12.3 percent compared to the prior year with a pre-tax margin decline of 5.6 points to 30.5 percent. This overall margin performance for the year reflects impacts of the company s continued investment into strategic areas, including acquisition content, and the mix toward the SaaS business which is not yet at scale, partially offset by the impact of IP partnership agreements entered into during the year.  
     
   Global Business Services   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Global Business Services revenue of $16,700 million decreased 2.7 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency in 2016 compared to the prior year. Digital practices, which made up more than half of GBS revenue in 2016, grew strong double digits as reported and adjusted for currency including double-digit growth in cloud, analytics and mobile. This growth was more than offset by declines in the more traditional areas that the company is shifting away from, such as large ERP implementations.  
     
  Consulting revenue of $7,332 million declined 4.5 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency). Global Process Services (GPS) revenue of $1,388 million decreased 3.3 percent as reported (2 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Application Management revenue of $7,980 million decreased 0.9 percent as reported (flat adjusted for currency).  
     
  Within GBS, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $8.9 billion grew 16 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $3.0 billion grew 68 percent as reported (66 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.1 billion.  
     
  The company continues to aggressively shift the business to the strategic imperatives, or digital practices in GBS. The IBM Interactive Experience, the largest global digital agency, now has more than 30 studios worldwide. The company continues to respond to clients looking to create new business models with cognitive technologies. There was continued revenue growth in 2016, both as reported and adjusted for currency, in enterprise mobility solutions that are helping clients redesign workflows with specific industry content. The company s growing collection of MobileFirst for iOS applications can now be integrated with a broad set of Watson technologies to increase productivity. The company is scaling the industry s first cognitive consulting practice which draws on the expertise of consulting professionals spanning machine learning, advanced analytics, data science and development. During 2016, six acquisitions added substantial new capabilities in digital design, cloud consulting and other skill areas.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

37   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  GBS gross profit margin decreased 1.2 points to 27.0 percent compared to the prior year, with declines in Consulting and GPS. Overall, this reflects the company s investments to grow the digital practices, additional spending in certain accounts to deliver on client commitments, and price and profit pressure in more traditional engagements. These dynamics are also reflected in the pre-tax margin for the year. In 2016, pre-tax income of $1,732 million decreased 33.4 percent and the pre-tax margin declined 4.6 points to 10.1 percent.  
     
  The company continues to invest and shift resources to higher value services around digital and cognitive. The company is investing in enablement, hiring top talent and bringing in new skills through acquisitions and focusing on integrating and scaling these new skills. While this impacts near-term profit, this investment has added important capabilities as the company continues to expand the digital practices.  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue of $35,337 million grew 0.6 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency in 2016 compared to the prior year. As the business shifts from systems integration to services integration, there is continuing momentum in new offerings. Infrastructure Services revenue grew as reported and adjusted for currency, partially offset by declines in Technical Support Services and Integration Software. In 2016, four acquisitions have expanded capabilities and strengthened the company s portfolio.  
     
  Infrastructure Services revenue of $23,543 million grew 2.0 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Technical Support Services revenue of $7,272 million decreased 2.1 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency). Integration Software revenue of $4,521 million decreased 2.6 percent as reported (1 percent adjusted for currency) in 2016 compared to the prior year.  
     
  In Infrastructure Services, clients continue to turn to the company as the trusted partner to modernize and transform their most critical IT systems and navigate the complexities of the hybrid cloud environment. The company s hybrid cloud strategy is resonating with clients as they move to enterprise-grade cloud solutions that are secure, agile and leverage the data and investments in their core systems. Enterprise workloads on the company s public cloud continue to scale, contributing to growth in as-a-Service content. The company continues to expand its cloud infrastructure and now has 50 cloud centers around the world, enabling low latency connectivity to cloud infrastructure.  
     
  Although revenue declined year to year, Technical Support Services continues to generate substantial revenue and profit. There was year-to-year revenue growth as reported and adjusted for currency in multi-vendor services, which is leveraging the company s global scale and deep technical skills.  
     
  In Integration Software, there was revenue growth in Connect products that integrate applications, data and processes for on-premise and cloud environments. There was also a continued shift of the portfolio to an as-a-Service model through IBM s Bluemix cloud platform which continues to scale across a broad catalog of high value services.  
     
  Within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $8.7 billion grew 39 percent as reported (40 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $5.9 billion grew 49 percent as reported (50 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $5.8 billion.  
     
 38   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Recast to conform with 2016 presentation 
     
  Technology Services   Cloud Platforms gross profit margin decreased 0.8 points to 41.9 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year. While partially due to mix within the segment, there was improvement in the Infrastructure Services margin offset by declines in Technical Support Services and Integration Software. The margin improvement in Infrastructure Services reflects the benefits from delivery transformation and ongoing productivity actions related to automation, process optimization and leveraging the company s scale, technology and talent. The company is investing in cognitive capabilities to further improve its delivery model and drive efficiencies. The Technical Support Services margin decline reflects the mix to multi-vendor support offerings. The Integration Software margin declined as the shift of the portfolio to an as-a-Service model continues.  
     
  Pre-tax income of $4,707 million decreased 17.0 percent and pre-tax margin declined 2.8 points year to year to 13.1 percent. The pre-tax margin reflects the dynamics impacting gross profit and the continued investments to build out the cloud platform, partially offset by the impact of IP partnership agreements entered into during the year.  
     
   Services Backlog and Signings   
     
  ($ in billions)  

The estimated total services backlog at December 31, 2016 was $119 billion, a decrease of 3.2 percent as reported, and 2 percent adjusted for currency, with an increase in GTS more than offset by a decline in GBS as reported and adjusted for currency, compared to the December 31, 2015 balance.  
     
  Total services backlog includes Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services, Application Management and Technical Support Services. Total backlog is intended to be a statement of overall work under contract for these businesses and therefore includes Technical Support Services. It does not include as-a-Service offerings that have flexibility in contractual commitment terms. Backlog estimates are subject to change and are affected by several factors, including terminations, changes in the scope of contracts, periodic revalidations, adjustments for revenue not materialized and adjustments for currency.  
     
  Services signings are management s initial estimate of the value of a client s commitment under a services contract. There are no third-party standards or requirements governing the calculation of signings. The calculation used by management involves estimates and judgments to gauge the extent of a client s commitment, including the type and duration of the agreement, and the presence of termination charges or wind-down costs.  
     
  Signings include Infrastructure Services, Consulting, Global Process Services and Application Management contracts. Contract extensions and increases in scope are treated as signings only to the extent of the incremental new value. Technical Support Services is not included in signings as the maintenance contracts tend to be more steady state, where revenues equal renewals.  
     
  Contract portfolios purchased in an acquisition are treated as positive backlog adjustments provided those contracts meet the company s requirements for initial signings. A new signing will be recognized if a new services agreement is signed incidental or coincidental to an acquisition or divestiture.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

39   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Systems   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Systems revenue of $7,714 million decreased 19.2 percent as reported (19 percent adjusted for currency) in 2016 compared to the prior year reflecting market shifts and product cycle dynamics. Systems Hardware revenue of $5,926 million decreased 21.8 percent as reported (22 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Operating Systems Software revenue of $1,788 million decreased 9.4 percent as reported (9 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.  
     
  Within Systems Hardware, z Systems revenue decreased 27.1 percent as reported (27 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting product cycle dynamics. However, eight quarters into the z13 cycle at the end of 2016, the company continues to add new clients to the platform, drive innovation and introduce new technologies. During 2016, 29 new clients were added, with a total of 80 since introduction of the z13, validating its value and ongoing commitment to the company s platform. Throughout the year, the company continued to optimize z Systems to drive new workloads such as blockchain and instant payments. The acquisition of EZSource, which helps clients modify applications for their digital transformation while supporting agility and hybrid cloud, also drove innovation in the z Systems platform.  
     
  Power Systems revenue decreased 27.1 percent as reported (27 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting the underlying dynamics of a declining market for UNIX, where IBM continues to be the market leader, partially offset by growth in the expanding Linux market. During the year, there was success with HANA where the company is bringing in new clients. The UNIX market remains a high-value space for clients, and in 2016 new midrange and high-end systems were introduced. These systems are designed for hybrid cloud computing and flexible consumption models to transform on-premise IT to the cloud. In Power, the company is shifting to Linux while continuing to serve the UNIX space, but this is a long transition.  
     
  Storage Systems revenue decreased by 10.0 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year reflecting the weakness in the traditional disk storage market. In 2016, the company introduced new products and transitioned to a full suite of flash array offerings to improve its competitive position, and this portfolio grew revenue in the fourth quarter of the year as reported and adjusted for currency. While not reported within the Systems segment, Software-Defined Storage had revenue growth as reported and adjusted for currency in 2016.  
     
  Within Systems, total 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $3.4 billion decreased 15 percent as reported and adjusted for currency year to year. Cloud revenue of $2.7 billion decreased 11 percent as reported and adjusted for currency as a result of a strong 2015 with the mainframe cycle.  
     
 40   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Recast to conform with 2016 presentation 
     
  The Systems gross profit margin decreased 0.1 points to 55.7 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year with declines in Power and Storage partially offset by expansion in z Systems margins. Pre-tax income of $933 million decreased 45.8 percent and the pre-tax margin declined 5.7 points year to year to 11.0 percent, consistent with the product cycle and portfolio transition dynamics impacting revenue and profit.  
     
  The company has reinvented its core systems for work in a new era of computing. It has optimized systems to drive new types of workloads and is expanding its footprint, building new capabilities and solving new types of problems for its clients. While facing some shifting market dynamics and product transitions, the Systems portfolio remains optimized to address the demands of the cognitive era and cloud computing.  
     
   Global Financing   
     
  See pages 76 through 81 for an analysis of Global Financing s segment results.  
     
   Total Software   
     
  Under the company s new segment structure, total software no longer exists as a segment. Given the focus on IBM s software revenue performance, the company continued to report total software revenue performance through 2016. The company s software revenue is reported discretely within the Cognitive Solutions, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms and Systems segments and can be added together to calculate total software. The company has a broad software portfolio, from solutions that provide cognitive, analytics and security solutions, to core transaction processing, to connecting on-premises data and processes to private and public cloud environments. This software is open, running on IBM and non-IBM environments.  
     
  Total software revenue, which includes Cognitive Solutions, Integration Software and Operating Systems Software, of $24,496 million increased 0.2 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency in 2016 compared to 2015. From a business area perspective, there was growth in Cognitive Solutions as reported and adjusted for currency, while Integration Software and Operating Systems Software were down year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. Across software, annuity revenue grew year to year as reported and adjusted for currency led by SaaS offerings. Transactional revenue declined as reported and adjusted for currency.  
       
   Geographic Revenue   
     
  In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. The following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance excludes OEM revenue.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

41   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Total geographic revenue of $79,594 million in 2016 decreased 2.3 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year.  
     
  Americas revenue of $37,513 million decreased 2.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency with declines in North America and Latin America as reported and adjusted for currency. Within North America, the U.S. decreased 0.9 percent and Canada decreased 6.2 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). In Latin America, Brazil decreased 10.5 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) and Mexico decreased 14.5 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  EMEA revenue of $24,769 million decreased 5.0 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency. Within EMEA, revenue declined in the UK, Germany and France, as reported and adjusted for currency, while revenue grew in Italy as reported and adjusted for currency. The UK decreased 12.8 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency). Germany decreased 5.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency). Revenue declined in France 3.4 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency). Italy increased 4.0 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. The Middle East and Africa region grew 0.6 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency), while there was a decline in the Central and Eastern European region as reported and adjusted for currency including a year-to-year decline in Russia of 27.1 percent.  
     
  Asia Pacific revenue of $17,313 million grew 2.6 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. Japan grew 10.5 percent as reported, but declined 1 percent adjusted for currency. India grew 5.2 percent as reported and 10 percent adjusted for currency. China decreased 2.4 percent as reported, but was flat on an adjusted for currency basis. Australia decreased 9.7 percent (8 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
   Total Expense and Other (Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The key drivers of the year-to-year change in total expense and other (income) were approximately:  

Total        

Operating            

Consolidated        

(non-GAAP)            

Currency*      

2 points       

2 points           

Acquisitions**      

5 points       

4 points           

Base      

(2) points       

0 points              

*             Reflects impacts of translation and hedging programs 
  ** Includes acquisitions completed in prior 12-month period; operating (non-GAAP) is net of non-operating acquisition-related charges.  
     
  For additional information regarding total expense and other (income) for both expense presentations, see the following analyses by category.  
     
 42   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Selling, General and Administrative   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense increased 3.1 percent in 2016 versus 2015, driven primarily by the following factors:  
     
                   Acquisition-related spending (4 points); and 
     
                   Higher workforce rebalancing charges (2 points); partially offset by 
     
                   The effects of currency (1 point); and 
     
                   A year-to-year decrease in charges for pension obligations related to litigation in Spain (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) expense increased 3.8 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors excluding the year-to-year decrease in charges for pension obligations related to litigation which is not reflected in operating (non-GAAP) expense.  
     
  Bad debt expense decreased $144 million in 2016 compared to 2015. The receivables provision coverage was 2.0 percent at December 31, 2016, a decrease of 60 basis points from December 31, 2015 due to write-offs of previously reserved receivables in 2016.  
     
   Research, Development and Engineering   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Research, development and engineering (RD E) expense was 7.2 percent of revenue in 2016 and 6.4 percent of revenue in 2015.  
     
  RD E expense increased 9.6 percent in 2016 versus 2015 primarily driven by:  
     
                   Higher expense due to acquisitions (7 points); and 
     
                   Increased base spending (4 points); partially offset by 
     
                   The effects of currency (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) RD E expense increased 10.1 percent in 2016 compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
   Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation 
     
  Licensing of intellectual property including royalty-based fees increased in 2016 compared to the prior year period, primarily due to licensing of certain intellectual property in 2016 within the company s Integration Software and Cognitive Solutions software portfolio, which included four transactions each with period income greater than $100 million. The company is licensing IP to partners who are allocating their skills to extend the value of assets that are high value, but may be in mature markets. There were no significant individual IP transactions in 2015. The  
     
 43   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  timing and amount of licensing, sales or other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development.  
     
   Other (Income) and Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  Total consolidated other (income) and expense was expense of $145 million in 2016 compared to income of $724 million in 2015. The decrease in income of $869 million year over year was primarily driven by:  
     
                   Lower net exchange gains ($593 million); and 
     
                   Real estate capacity charges related to the first-quarter 2016 workforce transformation ($291 million). 
     
   Interest Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The increase in interest expense in 2016 versus 2015 was primarily driven by higher average debt levels and higher average interest rates. Interest expense is presented in cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings only if the related external borrowings are to support the Global Financing external business. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) in 2016 was $1,206 million, an increase of $197 million year to year.  
       
   Stock-Based Compensation   
     
  Pre-tax stock-based compensation cost of $544 million increased $76 million compared to 2015. This was due primarily to increases related to performance share units ($72 million) and the conversion of stock-based awards previously issued by acquired entities ($15 million); partially offset by decreases related to restricted stock units ($15 million). Stock-based compensation cost, and the year-to-year change, was reflected in the following categories: Cost: $88 million, down $13 million; SG A expense: $401 million, up $78 million and RD E expense: $55 million, up $5 million.  
     
   Retirement-Related Plans   
     
  The following table provides the total pre-tax cost for all retire-ment-related plans. These amounts are included in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings within the caption (e.g., Cost, SG A, RD E) relating to the job function of the plan participants.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
       
 44   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In 2016, total pre-tax retirement-related plan cost decreased by $569 million compared to 2015, primarily driven by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($532 million), a decrease in pension obligations related to litigation in Spain ($177 million) and lower defined contribution plans cost ($68 million); partially offset by lower expected return on plan assets ($316 million).  
     
  As discussed in the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27, the company characterizes certain retirement-related costs as operating and others as non-operating. Utilizing this characterization, operating retirement-related costs in 2016 were $1,405 million, a decrease of $117 million compared to 2015, primarily driven by lower defined contribution plans cost ($68 million) and lower service cost ($42 million). Non-operating costs of $598 million decreased $452 million in 2016 compared to the prior year, driven primarily by a decrease in recognized actuarial losses ($532 million) and a decrease in pension obligations related to litigation in Spain ($177 million); partially offset by lower expected return on plan assets ($316 million).  
       
   Income Taxes   
     
  The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2016 was 3.6 percent, a decrease of 12.5 points versus the prior year. The benefit resulting from the favorable resolution of a long standing tax matter related to the determination of certain foreign tax losses incurred by the company in Japan drove a 9.5 point reduction in the rate. Without that discrete item, the continuing operations effective tax rate for 2016 would have been 13.1 percent, with the remaining change in the rate year to year driven by the following factors:  
     
                   The benefit resulting from the favorable resolution of a long-standing tax matter related to the utilization of certain foreign tax losses in Japan of 9.5 points; and 
     
                   A benefit due to the year-to-year decrease in tax charges related to intercompany payments made by foreign subsidiaries and the intercompany licensing of certain IP of 5.7 points; and 
     
                   A benefit due to the geographic mix of pre-tax earnings in 2016 of 0.3 points; partially offset by 
     
                   A reduced benefit year to year related to audit settlements of 2.3 points; and 
     
                   The decreased benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits of 0.6 points. 
     
  The continuing operations operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate was 6.5 percent, a decrease of 10.7 points versus 2015 principally driven by the same factors described above. Without the Japan benefits, the continuing operations (non-GAAP) effective tax rate would have been 14.9 percent.  
     
   Earnings Per Share   
     
  Basic earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and stock awards.  

Actual shares outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015 were 945.9 million and 965.7 million, respectively. The average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution was 24.0 million shares lower in 2016 versus 2015. The decrease was primarily the result of the common stock repurchase program.  
     
   Results of Discontinued Operations   
     
  The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $9 million in 2016 and $174 million in 2015. The discontinued operations effective tax rate in 2016 was 21.7 percent compared to 40.3 percent in 2015.  
     
 45   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Financial Position   
     
   Dynamics   
     
  At December 31, 2016, the company continued to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at year end were $8,527 million. During the year, the company continued to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.  
     
  Total debt of $42,169 million increased $2,279 million from prior year-end levels. The commercial paper balance at December 31, 2016, was $899 million, an increase of $299 million from the prior year end. Within total debt, $27,859 million was in support of the Global Financing business which is leveraged at a 7.3 to 1 ratio. The company continues to have substantial flexibility in the debt markets. During 2016, the company completed bond issuances totaling $7,873 million, with terms ranging from 1.5 to 30 years, and interest rates ranging from 0.50 to 4.70 percent depending on maturity. The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations and continues to have access to additional sources of liquidity through the capital markets and its $10.25 billion global credit facility, with 100 percent of the facility available on a same day basis.  
     
  Consistent with accounting standards, the company remeasured the funded status of its retirement and postretirement plans at December 31. At December 31, 2016, the overall net underfunded position was $14,840 million, a decrease of $674 million from December 31, 2015 driven by asset returns partially offset by a decrease in discount rates. At year end, the company s qualified defined benefit plans were well funded and the cash requirements related to these plans remain stable going forward at approximately $500 million per year through 2020. In 2016, the return on the U.S. Personal Pension Plan assets was 6.2 percent and the plan was 102 percent funded at December 31. Overall, global asset returns were 8.5 percent and the qualified defined benefit plans worldwide were 98 percent funded at December 31, 2016.  
     
  During 2016, the company generated $16,958 million in cash from operations, a decrease of $49 million compared to 2015. In addition, the company generated $11,574 million in free cash flow, a decrease of $1,501 million versus the prior year. See page 69 for additional information on free cash flow. The company returned $8,758 million to shareholders in 2016, with $5,256 million in dividends and $3,502 million in gross share repurchases. In 2016, the company repurchased 23.3 million shares and had $5.1 billion remaining in share repurchase authorization at year end. The company s cash generation permits the company to invest and deploy capital to areas with the most attractive long-term opportunities.  
     
  The assets and debt associated with the Global Financing business are a significant part of the company s financial position. The financial position amounts appearing on page 86 are the consolidated amounts including Global Financing. The amounts appearing in the separate Global Financing section, beginning on page 77, are supplementary data presented to facilitate an understanding of the Global Financing business.  
     
   Working Capital   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Working capital decreased $622 million from the year-end 2015 position. The key changes are described below:  
     
  Current assets increased $1,383 million ($1,920 million adjusted for currency), as a result of:  
     
                   An increase of $690 million ($1,013 million adjusted for currency) in receivables driven by trade receivables; and 
     
                   An increase of $359 million ($457 million adjusted for currency) in prepaid expenses and other current assets; and 
     
                   An increase of $332 million ($427 million adjusted for currency) in cash and marketable securities.  
     
  Current liabilities increased $2,006 million ($2,471 million adjusted for currency), as a result of:  
     
                   An increase in short-term debt of $1,052 million ($1,033 million adjusted for currency); and 
     
                   An increase in taxes of $388 million ($442 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by the reclass from non-current liabilities based on the anticipated settlement of various U.S. and non U.S. tax audits; and 
     
                   An increase in other accrued expenses and liabilities of $352 million ($571 million adjusted for currency); and 
     
                   An increase in accounts payable of $181 million ($244 million adjusted for currency). 
     
 46   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cash Flow   
     
  The company s cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities, as reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows on page 87 are summarized in the table below. These amounts include the cash flows associated with the Global Financing business.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Net cash provided by operating activities decreased by $49 million in 2016 driven by the following key factors:  
     
                   Performance-related declines within net income; offset by 
     
                   A decline in cash income tax payments ($1,579 million). 
     
  Net cash used in investing activities increased $2,817 million driven by:  
     
                   An increase in cash used related to acquisitions of $2,330 million. 
     
  Net cash used in financing activities decreased $3,375 million as compared to the prior year driven by the following factors:  
     
                   An increase in net cash sourced from debt transactions of $2,744 million driven by a higher level of issuances in the current year; and 
     
                   A decrease of $1,107 million of cash used for gross share repurchases; partially offset by 
     
                   An increase in dividend payments of $358 million. 
     
   Noncurrent Assets and Liabilities   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The increase in noncurrent assets of $5,591 million ($5,788 million adjusted for currency) was driven by:  
     
                   An increase in intangible assets and goodwill of $5,379 million ($5,420 million adjusted for currency) resulting from acquisitions during the year; and 
     
                   An increase in prepaid pension assets of $1,301 million ($1,427 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by the expected returns on plan assets partially offset by interest costs and plan remeasurements; partially offset by 
     
                   A decrease of $993 million ($1,054 million adjusted for currency) in long-term financing receivables primarily due to lower volumes. 
     
  Long-term debt increased $1,227 million ($1,595 million adjusted for currency) driven by:  
     
                   Bond issuances of $7,873 million; partially offset by 
     
                   Reclassification of $6,239 million to short-term debt to reflect upcoming maturities. 
     
  Other noncurrent liabilities, excluding debt, decreased $227 million ($195 million adjusted for currency) primarily driven by:  
     
                   A decrease of $622 million ($769 million adjusted for currency) in other liabilities driven by the reclass to current taxes based on the anticipated settlement of various U.S. and non U.S. tax audits; partially offset by 
     
                   An increase in retirement and nonpension postretirement liabilities of $567 million ($706 million adjusted for currency) driven by plan remeasurements. 
     
 47   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Debt   
     
  The company s funding requirements are continually monitored and strategies are executed to manage the overall asset and liability profile. Additionally, the company maintains sufficient flexibility to access global funding sources as needed.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. These assets, primarily for Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, generate long-term, stable revenue streams similar to the Global Financing asset portfolio. Based on their attributes, these Technology Services   Cloud Platforms assets are leveraged with the balance of the Global Financing asset base. The debt analysis above is further detailed in the Global Financing section on page 80.  
     
  Consolidated debt-to-capitalization ratio at December 31, 2016 was 69.6 percent versus 73.4 percent at December 31, 2015.  
     
  Given the significant leverage, the company also presents a debt-to-capitalization ratio which excludes Global Financing debt and equity as management believes this is more representative of the company s core business operations. This ratio can vary from period to period as the company manages its global cash and debt positions.  Core  debt-to-capitalization ratio (excluding Global Financing debt and equity) was 49.5 percent at December 31, 2016 compared to 54.3 percent at December 31, 2015.  
     
   Equity   
     
  Total equity increased by $3,968 million from December 31, 2015 as a result of an increase in retained earnings of $6,634 million, an increase in common stock of $673 million and lower accumulated other comprehensive losses of $209 million; partially offset by an increase in treasury stock of $3,532 million mainly due to gross common stock repurchases.  
     
   GAAP Reconciliation   
     
  The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Please refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27 for the company s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amount)  

*             The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
 48   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amount)  

*             The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
   Consolidated Fourth-Quarter Results   
     
  ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*             (0.7) percent adjusted for currency 
     
  NM Not meaningful  
     
 49   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table provides the company s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for the fourth quarter of 2016 and 2015.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*      See page 55 for a more detailed reconciliation of net income to operating (non-GAAP) earnings.  
     
  NM Not meaningful  
     
   Snapshot   
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company delivered $21.8 billion in revenue, $4.5 billion in income from continuing operations and $4.8 billion in operating (non-GAAP) earnings, resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.73 as reported and $5.01 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company generated $4.0 billion in cash from operations and $4.7 billion in free cash flow in the fourth quarter of 2016 with shareholder returns of $2.2 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends. In the quarter, the company continued to deliver strong revenue growth in the strategic imperatives.  
     
  Total consolidated revenue decreased 1.3 percent as reported and 1 percent year to year adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2016, with a sequential decline of 1.0 point as reported but flat adjusted for currency from the third quarter growth rates. Clients are focused on becoming cloud-based, cognitive and digital businesses which is reflected in the company s strong revenue growth in the strategic imperatives across cloud, mobile, analytics and security in the fourth quarter 2016 versus 2015. Cloud as-a-Service continues to deliver strong revenue growth across software and services. Annuity revenue grew in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to 2015. In addition, acquisitions completed over the past 12 months continued to contribute to revenue performance in the quarter.  
     
  The fourth quarter results reflect the success the company is having in the strategic areas and the investments it has been making to drive that shift. In the fourth quarter, the strategic imperatives cloud, analytics and engagement, grew 11.4 percent year to year as reported and 12 percent adjusted for currency. Total Cloud revenue of $4.2 billion increased 33 percent as reported and adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter, with cloud as-a-Service revenue up 61 percent (63 percent adjusted for currency). The company exited the fourth quarter of 2016 with an annual run rate for cloud as-a-Service revenue of $8.6 billion, up from $7.5 billion in the third quarter of 2016. Analytics revenue of $5.6 billion in the fourth quarter increased 9 percent as reported and adjusted for currency with contribution from the core analytics platform as well as the cognitive offerings including Watson Health, Watson Platform and Watson IoT. Mobile revenue increased 16 percent as reported (17 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year. Security revenue increased 7 percent as reported (8 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue increased 1.4 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency led by growth in Solutions Software. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue increased 1.7 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency with growth in Infrastructure Services as clients focus on enabling their digital businesses and building their hybrid cloud environments. Global Business Services revenue decreased 4.1 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency and continues to reflect a shift in the segment s business away from large ERP implementations towards digital practices. Systems revenue decreased 12.5 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) reflecting declines in Power Systems and Storage Systems partially offset by growth in z Systems.  
     
  From a geographic perspective, Americas revenue was flat year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. There was sequential improvement compared with the third quarter of 2016 on both an as reported and adjusted for currency basis. EMEA revenue decreased 8.0 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to 2015. Asia Pacific revenue increased 5.1 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency.  
     
  The consolidated gross profit margin of 50.0 percent decreased 1.7 points year to year. The decline was driven primarily by continued investment in strategic areas, including acquisitions, and the shift toward an as-a-Service business which is not yet at scale. The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 51.0 percent decreased 1.8 points compared to the prior year driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Total expense and other (income) decreased 6.4 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 6.8 percent year to year.  
     
 50   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The key year-to-year drivers were approximately:  

Total        

Operating        

Consolidation        

(non-GAAP)        

Currency*      

1 point       

1 point       

Acquisitions**      

5 points       

4 points       

Base      

(12) points       

(12) points       

*                    Reflects impacts of translation and hedging programs 
  **             Includes acquisitions completed in prior 12-month period; operating (non-GAAP) is net of non-operating acquisition-related charges. 
     
  Base expense performance reflects a higher level of IP income (5 points) in the fourth quarter year to year consistent with the company s revitalized efforts in this area. The base expense decline also reflected the yield from workforce rebalancing actions occurring earlier in the year. The business continued to invest in areas such as cognitive and cloud through acquisitions. The decrease in operating (non-GAAP) expense was driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $5.0 billion in the fourth quarter of 2016 decreased 2.2 percent year to year and the pre-tax margin was 22.9 percent, a decrease of 0.2 points. The continuing operations effective tax rate for the fourth quarter of 2016 was 9.6 percent compared to an effective tax rate of 12.5 percent in the fourth quarter of 2015, down 2.9 points year to year. While the underlying effective tax rate was approximately 16 percent, the fourth-quarter 2016 rate reflected benefits from the year-to-year decrease in tax charges related to intercompany payments and the intercompany licensing of certain IP. Income from continuing operations of $4.5 billion increased 1.0 percent and the net income margin was 20.7 percent, an increase of 0.5 points versus the fourth quarter of 2015. Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax, were $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to $3 million of income in the fourth quarter of 2015. Net income of $4.5 billion increased 0.9 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations of $5.4 billion decreased 2.1 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations of 24.8 percent was essentially flat year-to-year. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $4.8 billion increased 1.5 percent. The operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 21.9 percent increased 0.6 points. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations in the fourth quarter of 2016 was 11.5 percent versus 14.7 percent in the prior year.  
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company repurchased 5.5 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $0.9 billion. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $4.73 in the fourth quarter of 2016 increased 3.1 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $5.01 increased 3.5 percent versus the fourth quarter of 2015.  
     
   Results of Continuing Operations   
     
   Segment Details   
     
  The following is an analysis of the fourth quarter of 2016 versus the fourth quarter of 2015 reportable segment external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

51   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, Cognitive Solutions revenue of $5,297 million grew 1.4 percent as reported and 2 percent year to year adjusted for currency. On an as reported and constant currency basis, Solutions Software revenue grew, partially offset by declines in Transaction Processing Software.  
     
  In the fourth quarter, Solutions Software revenue of $3,747 million grew 4.0 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency), while Transaction Processing Software revenue of $1,550 million declined 4.3 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency). Within Solutions Software, growth was driven by Analytics and Security, which both grew as reported and on a constant currency basis. Within the Analytics portfolio, the company continued to innovate the Watson platform and extend cognitive across the solution offerings. The Watson platform, which underpins the company s cognitive strategy, continues to gain momentum in the marketplace. There was strong Software-as-a-Service performance in the quarter with double-digit growth in revenue as reported and adjusted for currency.  
     
  Within Cognitive Solutions, total fourth quarter 2016 strategic imperatives revenue of $3.5 billion grew 6 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $0.6 billion grew 52 percent (53 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.8 billion.  
     
  The Cognitive Solutions gross profit margin decreased 3.0 points to 82.7 percent in the fourth quarter 2016 versus 2015 primarily due to investments in strategic areas, such as SaaS, and acquisition content. In the fourth quarter, pre-tax income of $2,313 million increased 0.8 percent year to year, however pretax margin declined 1.4 points to 38.6 percent. Performance continued to reflect the company s higher level of investment in the strategic growth areas, including Watson.  
     
   Global Business Services   
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, Global Business Services revenue of $4,121 million decreased 4.1 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency. Digital practices continued to grow at double digits year to year as reported and adjusted for currency, including strong growth in cloud, mobile and analytics. This growth was more than offset by declines in the traditional areas.  
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, Application Management revenue of $1,969 million decreased 2.8 percent (2 percent adjusted for currency), compared to the prior year. Consulting revenue of $1,813 million declined 5.3 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) and GPS revenue of $340 million decreased 4.8 percent (4 percent adjusted for currency). Revenue declines across the businesses reflect the shift away from the traditional large enterprise implementations and the continued investment in digital practices. The company continues to focus on providing the solutions enterprises are demanding to create new business models with cognitive technologies. During the fourth quarter, a new global Watson IoT consulting practice was announced which will help clients introduce IoT innovation into their businesses by leveraging IBM s deep domain and industry expertise.  
     
  Within GBS, total fourth quarter strategic imperatives revenue of $2.4 billion grew 18 percent as reported (19 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $0.9 billion grew 78 percent as reported (77 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $1.1 billion.  
     
  In the fourth quarter, the GBS gross profit margin decreased 1.3 points to 26.9 percent compared to the prior year, with declines in Consulting, Application Management and GPS. Margins declined in Consulting and Application Management as the business shifts to digital platforms and continues to add highly skilled enablement resources, impacting productivity in the near term. In addition, the company continues to incur additional spending to improve delivery efficiency and meet commitments in the more traditional engagements. These dynamics are also reflected in the pre-tax margin for the quarter. In the fourth quarter, pre-tax income of $522 million decreased 26.1 percent and the pre-tax margin declined 3.6 points to 12.4 percent.  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue of $9,308 million grew 1.7 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. The business continues to invest in hybrid cloud capabilities across services and software to help clients build their cloud infrastructures.  
     
  Infrastructure Services revenue of $6,085 million grew 2.6 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency) in the fourth quarter. The company s enterprise workloads on the public cloud continue to scale, which enables clients to grow their new digital businesses. As a services integrator, the company is a premier partner in hybrid cloud services integration and delivers end-to-end infrastructure services solutions that continue to resonate with clients. Technical Support Services revenue of $1,827 million increased 0.2 percent (flat adjusted for currency). Integration Software revenue of $1,396 million declined 0.1 percent as reported, but grew 1 percent adjusted for currency compared to the fourth quarter of 2015. In Integration Software, there was continued strength in WebSphere Application Server and hybrid cloud integration capabilities and Bluemix is now one of the largest open public cloud deployments globally.  
     
  Within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, total fourth quarter strategic imperatives revenue of $2.6 billion grew 36 percent (37 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $1.8 billion grew 48 percent as reported (50 percent adjusted for currency), with an as-a-Service exit run rate of $5.8 billion.  
     
  The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms gross profit margin decreased 1.4 points to 42.9 percent in the fourth quarter with declines in Technical Support Services and Integration Software. The margin decline in Technical Support Services was driven by the global investment in technical skills within multi-vendor services. The decline in margin in Integration Software reflects the dynamics of the shift in capabilities to Software-as-a-Service and royalty cost from the growth in intellectual property partnerships.  
     
 52   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Fourth-quarter pre-tax income of $1,882 million increased 4.1 percent and pre-tax margin improved 0.4 points to 19.8 percent. The pre-tax margin reflects licensing income from the intellectual property partnerships offset by the continued investment in strategic areas and innovation to drive productivity in the more traditional business.  
     
   Systems   
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, Systems revenue of $2,530 million decreased 12.5 percent as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year reflecting shifting market dynamics and product cycle transitions.  
     
  Systems Hardware revenue of $2,074 million decreased 12.5 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) in the fourth quarter. Operating Systems Software revenue of $456 million decreased 12.6 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency) compared to the prior year.  
     
  Across Systems, product cycle transitions in Power Systems and Storage Systems contributed to the decline in revenue, while the overall portfolio remains optimized to meet client demands in the era of cognitive and cloud computing.  
     
  Within Systems Hardware, z Systems revenue increased 3.8 percent as reported (4 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting continued success in driving innovation in the company s core systems. The mainframe continues to deliver a high-value, secure and scalable platform that is constantly being redesigned for new workloads, such as blockchain and instant payment, and is optimized for mobile and security.  
     
  Power Systems revenue decreased 34.5 percent (34 percent adjusted for currency) year to year reflecting the company s ongoing shift to a growing Linux market while continuing to serve a high-value, but declining, UNIX market. Workload on the Linux platform continued double-digit growth while the traditional UNIX base declined. The company continued the expansion of new Linux offerings, with Power on Linux now representing over 15 percent of the Power portfolio.  
     
  Storage Systems revenue decreased 10.6 percent (10 percent adjusted for currency) year to year, reflecting the continued market shift toward software-defined environments. The year-to-year decline was primarily driven by midrange and high-end disk storage, both of which declined as reported and on an adjusted currency basis. The company benefited from the performance of its full suite of all flash array offerings which contributed double-digit revenue growth in the fourth quarter. While not within the Systems segment, Software-Defined Storage had continued double-digit revenue growth as reported and adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter.  
     
  Within Systems, total fourth quarter strategic imperatives revenue of $1.1 billion decreased 19 percent (18 percent adjusted for currency) year to year. Cloud revenue of $0.9 billion decreased 15 percent (15 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  The Systems gross profit margin increased 1.1 points to 56.9 percent in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year. This increase was due to mix to z Systems (0.6 points) and margin expansion (0.4 points) driven by improvements in z Systems margin; partially offset by declining margins in Power Systems and Storage Systems. Pre-tax income of $579 million decreased 14.1 percent and the pre-tax margin declined 0.2 points to 21.6 percent, consistent with the product cycle and portfolio transition dynamics impacting revenue and gross profit.  
     
   Global Financing   
     
  Global Financing revenue of $447 million was down 1.5 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency due primarily to decreases in financing revenue partially offset by increases in used equipment sales revenue. The Global Financing fourth quarter pre-tax income decreased 33.5 percent to $448 million and the pre-tax margin decreased 6.1 points to 49.3 percent. The decrease in pre-tax income was driven by a decrease in gross profit ($250 million) and an increase in SG A expenses ($19 million); partially offset by decreases in financing receivable provisions ($42 million).  
     
   Total Software   
     
  Total software revenue, which includes Cognitive Solutions, Integration Software and Operating Systems Software, of $7,149 million was flat as reported and increased 1 percent adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year period. From a business area perspective, there was growth in Cognitive Solutions as reported and adjusted for currency and Integration Software revenue was flat as reported, but grew adjusted for currency. Operating Systems Software revenue declined year to year as reported and adjusted for currency, in line with the longer term secular trend. Across software, annuity revenue grew low-single digits year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. This growth was led by the SaaS offerings which grew both on an organic basis and from acquisitions. Transactional revenue declined mid-single digits as reported and adjusted for currency year to year.  
     
   Geographic Revenue   
     
  Total geographic revenue of $21,662 million decreased 1.5 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to the prior year. Americas revenue of $10,283 million was flat as reported and adjusted for currency compared to the prior year. EMEA fourth quarter revenue of $6,737 million decreased 8.0 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for currency. Asia Pacific revenue of $4,641 million grew 5.1 percent as reported and 1 percent adjusted for currency. Americas and Asia Pacific revenue growth rates improved sequentially, as reported and adjusted for currency, compared to the third quarter.  
     
  Within Americas, U.S. revenue increased 2.1 percent compared to the prior year. Canada was down 5.8 percent as reported (6 percent adjusted for currency). Latin America decreased 5.1 percent (5 percent adjusted for currency) in the fourth quarter compared to the prior year. Within Latin America, Brazil was flat year to year as reported, but declined 10 percent adjusted for currency. Fourth quarter revenue in Mexico decreased 10.7 percent (3 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  In the fourth quarter, within EMEA, revenue in the UK decreased 24.2 percent (7 percent adjusted for currency). Germany decreased 7.4 percent (6 percent adjusted for currency). France decreased 3.2 percent (1 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
 53   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Partially offsetting these declines, Italy increased 9.9 percent (12 percent adjusted for currency). Fourth quarter revenue performance in Europe declined sequentially from the third quarter driven by the UK, Germany and Russia consistent with macro- and geo-political trends. In the Central and Eastern European region, revenue decreased 21.0 percent (20 percent adjusted for currency) year to year with Russia declining 38.8 percent. The Middle East and Africa region declined 4.3 percent as reported (5 percent adjusted for currency) compared to 2015.  
     
  Within Asia Pacific, China revenue grew 19.1 percent (22 percent adjusted for currency), reflecting the strength of the z Systems platform in the banking sector. Japan grew 8.1 percent as reported, but decreased 2 percent adjusted for currency. Fourth quarter revenue in India declined 0.8 percent as reported, but grew 1 percent adjusted for currency. Australia decreased 11.6 percent (15 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
   Total Expense and Other (Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Total expense and other income decreased 6.4 percent in the fourth quarter with an expense-to-revenue ratio of 27.1 percent compared to 28.6 percent in the fourth quarter of 2015. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 6.8 percent in the fourth quarter. The decrease in total expense and other (income) was primarily driven by shifts within the operational expense base driving productivity and efficiency, the yield from workforce rebalancing actions earlier in the year, and the growth in intellectual property income (12 points). The growth in IP income year to year was a result of the company s revitalized efforts in this area. The fourth-quarter expense dynamics also reflect increased acquisition-related expenses (4 points) and a modest impact from currency (1 point) in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared with the prior year.  
     
   Results of Discontinued Operations   
     
  The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $4 million in the fourth quarter of 2016 compared to $3 million of income in the fourth quarter of 2015.  
     
   Cash Flow   
     
  The company generated $3,968 million in cash flow provided by operating activities, a decrease of $1,311 million compared to the fourth quarter of 2015 driven by higher income tax payments and an increase in working capital due to the timing and mix of substantial transactions in December 2016. Net cash used in investing activities of $3,687 million decreased $1,758 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to higher cash payments for acquisitions in the fourth quarter of the prior year, net changes in marketable securities and other investments, partially offset by a cash payment in the fourth quarter related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business. Net cash used in financing activities of $1,287 million decreased $61 million compared to the prior year, primarily due to a decline in net cash payments to settle debt, partially offset by an increase in cash used for gross common stock repurchases and dividends.  
     
 54   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   GAAP Reconciliation   
     
  The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Please refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27 for the company s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amount)  

*             The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
  ($ in millions except per share amount)  

*             The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
 55   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   PRIOR YEAR IN REVIEW   
     
  The  Prior Year in Review  section provides a summary of the company s financial performance in 2015 as compared to 2014. For additional information, see the company s recast 2015 Annual Report on Form 8-K dated June 13, 2016.  
     
  The initial closing dates for the sales of IBM s worldwide customer care outsourcing services business to SYNNEX and IBM s System x business to Lenovo were January 31, 2014 and October 1, 2014, respectively. Management believes that presenting financial information for years 2015 versus 2014 without either or both of these items is more representative of operational performance and provides more insight into, and clarifies the basis for, historical and/or future performance, which may be more useful to investors.  
     
  ($ and shares in millions except per share amounts)  

*       
 
  (4.1) percent   adjusted for currency; (1.2) percent adjusted for divestitures and currency           

**       
 
  At   December 31              
     
  The following table provides the company s operating (non-GAAP) earnings for 2015 and 2014.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*   See page 66 for a more detailed reconciliation of net income to operating (non-GAAP) earnings.  
     
 56   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Snapshot   
     
  In 2015, the company delivered $81.7 billion in revenue, $13.4 billion in income from continuing operations and $14.7 billion in operating (non-GAAP) earnings resulting in diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $13.60 as reported and $14.92 on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The results of continuing operations exclude a net loss from discontinued operations of $174 million in 2015 and $3,729 million in 2014 related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business. On a consolidated basis, net income in 2015 was $13.2 billion, with diluted earnings per share of $13.42. The company generated $17.0 billion in cash from operations and $13.1 billion in free cash flow in 2015 driving shareholder returns of $9.5 billion in gross common stock repurchases and dividends.  
     
  Total consolidated revenue decreased 11.9 percent as reported and 1 percent year to year adjusted for currency and the divestitures of the System x and customer care businesses. Currency had an 8 point, or $7.2 billion, impact on reported revenue in 2015. Revenue was impacted by 3 points in 2015 from the divested businesses. Combined, the impact of currency and divested businesses reduced the reported revenue growth by 11 points.  
     
  In 2015, strategic imperatives revenue, which includes analytics, cloud, mobile, social and security, grew 17 percent year to year as reported and 26 percent adjusted for currency and the System x divestiture. In total, the strategic imperatives generated $28.9 billion in revenue in 2015, which represented approximately 35 percent of the company s total revenue.  
     
  Cloud revenue increased 43 percent as reported in 2015 and 57 percent adjusted for currency and the System x divestiture. In 2015, Cloud revenue was $10.2 billion making the company the largest cloud provider. Cloud revenue spans across many different segments. The company leveraged its extensive relationships in enterprise IT and incumbency in the data center to help clients implement hybrid cloud environments. In addition:  
     
                   As-a-Service revenue increased 50 percent (61 percent adjusted for currency) year to year to $4.5 billion and the company exited 2015 with an annual run rate of $5.3 billion. 
     
                   Cloud revenue included $5.6 billion of revenue from foundational offerings where the company provided software, hardware and services for clients to build their own clouds. 
     
                   Clients utilized cloud not just to reduce costs, but also to gain agility and to enable innovation. The company has been leading clients in making the move to cloud through consuming as-a-Service, or through their own clouds or the implementation of a hybrid environment. 
     
                   The company made seven cloud acquisitions in 2015 including; Cleversafe, Gravitant, and Clearleap. The company also invested nearly $1 billion in 2015 to expand its global cloud data center footprint to 46. 
     
  Business analytics revenue of $17.9 billion increased 7 percent as reported and 16 percent year to year adjusted for currency making the company the largest analytics provider. The company also moved into new areas including Watson Health and Watson IoT. In Watson Health, the company is integrating its own organic capabilities with acquired content, including the acquisition of Merge Healthcare in 2015.  
     
  In the area of engagement (security, mobile and social), revenue increased 64 percent as reported and 77 percent adjusted for currency. Security revenue increased 5 percent as reported (12 percent adjusted for currency), mobile revenue more than tripled year to year as reported and adjusted for currency and social revenue increased 14 percent as reported (21 percent adjusted for currency).  
     
  From a segment perspective, Cognitive Solutions revenue declined 9.4 percent as reported (3 percent adjusted for currency) with declines in transactional revenue and annuity revenue. Annuity-based revenue declined as reported, but grew adjusted for currency, including Software-as-a-Service. GBS revenue decreased 12.0 percent as reported and 4 percent adjusted for currency (8 points). Technology Services   Cloud Platforms revenue declined 9.6 percent as reported, but was flat year to year adjusted for currency (9 points) and divestitures with strong growth in the strategic imperatives on both an as-reported and adjusted basis. Systems revenue decreased 22.3 percent as reported, but increased 4 percent adjusted for the System x divestiture (22 points) and currency (4 points), and reflected a successful mainframe cycle in 2015 and the repositioning of Power Systems to address a broader opportunity.  
     
  The consolidated gross profit margin of 49.8 percent decreased 0.2 points year to year. The operating (non-GAAP) gross margin of 50.8 percent increased 0.2 points compared to 2014 primarily driven by the shift to higher value through portfolio actions and the relative strength of z Systems, partially offset by margin declines in GBS, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms and Cognitive Solutions.  
     
  Total expense and other (income) decreased 6.4 percent in 2015 versus 2014. Total operating (non-GAAP) expense and other (income) decreased 7.8 percent year to year. The key year-to-year drivers were:  

Total        

Operating        

Consolidated        

(non-GAAP)        

Currency*      

(9) points       

(9) points       

System x divestiture      

(2) points       

(2) points       

Divestiture gains      

6 points       

6 points       

Workforce rebalancing      

(3) points       

(3) points       

*   Reflects impacts of translation and hedging programs  
     
 57   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The reduction in expense was driven primarily by currency impacts, a lower level of workforce rebalancing charges and the impact of the divested System x business. These benefits were partially offset by the impact of lower divestiture gains ($1.6 billion) year to year. The reduction in operating (non-GAAP) expense was driven primarily by the same factors. The company continued to shift resources and spending within its operational expense base driving productivity and efficiency in some areas with increased investment in support of the strategic imperatives. In 2015, the company shifted over $5 billion of spending across cost, expense and capital expenditures, to the strategic imperatives.  
     
  Pre-tax income from continuing operations of $15.9 billion decreased 20.2 percent year to year and the pre-tax margin was 19.5 percent, a decrease of 2.0 points. The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2015 was 16.2 percent, a decrease of 5.0 points versus 2014, primarily driven by benefits from the settlement of the U.S. tax audit and geographic mix of pre-tax profits; partially offset by less utilization of foreign tax credits. Income from continuing operations of $13.4 billion decreased 15.2 percent and the net income margin was 16.3 percent, a decrease of 0.6 points versus 2014. Losses from discontinued operations, net of tax, were $174 million compared to $3,729 million in 2014. Net income of $13.2 billion increased 9.7 percent year to year. Operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income from continuing operations decreased 16.3 percent year to year and the operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax margin from continuing operations decreased 1.1 points to 21.6 percent. Operating (non-GAAP) income from continuing operations of $14.7 billion decreased 12.2 percent including an impact of 7 points from the 2014 gains from the System x and customer care divestitures. The operating (non-GAAP) income margin from continuing operations of 17.9 percent decreased 0.1 points. The operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate from continuing operations was 17.2 percent versus 21.0 percent in 2014. The 2015 profit and margin performance reflected portfolio actions taken as the company continued to shift to higher value, as well as investments made to add capabilities to drive the transformation.  
     
  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations of $13.60 in 2015 decreased 12.8 percent year to year. In 2015, the company repurchased 30.3 million shares of its common stock at a cost of $4.7 billion. Operating (non-GAAP) diluted earnings per share of $14.92 decreased 9.7 percent versus 2014 including an impact of 7 points from the 2014 gains from the System x and customer care divestitures. Diluted earnings per share from discontinued operations was ($0.18) in 2015 compared to ($3.69) in 2014.  
     
  At December 31, 2015, the company continued to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at year end was $8.2 billion, a decrease of $0.3 billion from December 31, 2014. Key drivers in the balance sheet and total cash flows were:  
     
  Total assets decreased $6.8 billion ($0.3 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2014 driven by:  
     
                   Decreases in total receivables ($4.4 billion), deferred taxes ($1.9 billion) and prepaid expenses and sundry assets ($1.1 billion); partially offset by 
     
                   Increased goodwill ($1.5 billion). 
     
  Total liabilities decreased $9.2 billion ($4.7 billion adjusted for currency) from December 31, 2014 driven by:  
     
                   Decreases in other liabilities ($2.3 billion), taxes ($2.2 billion), retirement-related liabilities ($1.8 billion), deferred income ($0.8 billion), total debt ($0.8 billion) and accounts payable ($0.8 billion). 
     
  Total equity of $14.4 billion increased $2.4 billion from December 31, 2014 as a result of:  
     
                   Higher retained earnings ($8.3 billion) and higher common stock ($0.6 billion); partially offset by 
     
                   Increased treasury stock ($4.8 billion) and increased accumulated other comprehensive losses ($1.7 billion). 
     
  The company generated $17.0 billion in cash flow provided by operating activities, an increase of $0.1 billion when compared to 2014, driven primarily by lower income tax payments, offset by net income performance. Net cash used in investing activities of $8.2 billion was $5.2 billion higher than 2014, primarily due to a decrease in cash provided from divestitures ($2.8 billion) and an increase in net cash used for acquisitions ($2.7 billion). Net cash used in financing activities of $9.2 billion decreased $6.3 billion compared to 2014, driven primarily by a decrease in cash used for gross common stock repurchases ($9.1 billion), partially offset by lower net debt issuances ($1.8 billion) and higher dividend payments ($0.6 billion).  
     
 58   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Results of Continuing Operations   
     
   Segment Details   
     
  The following is an analysis of the 2015 versus 2014 reportable segment results. The table below presents each reportable segment s external revenue and gross margin results. Segment pre-tax income includes transactions between segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length transfer price and excludes certain unallocated corporate items.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Adjusted for divestitures and currency  
     
 59   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Cognitive Solutions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

In 2015, approximately 75 percent of the Cognitive Solutions business was annuity-like, including Software-as-a-Service and subscription and support. Renewal rates were steady, the SaaS business grew, and overall annuity revenue increased year to year adjusted for currency, but declined as reported. Transactional revenue declined year to year as reported and adjusted for currency as large clients with multi-year contracts continued to utilize the flexibility the company has provided in deployment of their software.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Profit performance for 2015 reflected the overall revenue trajectory, a higher level of investments in areas such as Watson Platform, Watson Health and Watson IoT, and an impact from currency.  
     
   Global Business Services   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Adjusted for divestitures and currency  
     
  As the company continued to transform the GBS business in 2015, revenue from the strategic imperative practices grew at strong rates. However, overall revenue performance continued to be impacted by the company s shift away from traditional businesses, such as ERP. Clients are moving away from ERP engagements to initiatives that focus on digitizing their business with analytics, cloud and mobile technologies.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

60   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  This year-to-year profit decline reflected the market shifts in the GBS business. In parts of the portfolio where the market has been declining, there was price and profit pressure. In addition, the company continued to shift and add significant resources to the high-growth analytics, cloud and mobility practices, which impacted productivity and margin.  
     
   Technology Services   Cloud Platforms   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Adjusted for the System x divestiture and currency  
     
  In Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, the company helped clients transition to a hybrid cloud services platform bringing cloud, mobility and security to infrastructure services. In Infrastructure Services, the company continued to reinvent its portfolio, providing the most modern IT services that connect clients to the cloud-based mobile world. The Technical Support Services business continued to contribute revenue by delivering a wide range of support services to maintain and improve clients  IT infrastructure.  
     
  Within Technology Services   Cloud Platforms, the strategic imperatives, including hybrid cloud services, grew strong double digits as reported and at constant currency in 2015. The company continued to increase its cloud capacity with 46 cloud data centers opened around the world as of December 31, 2015.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Recast to conform with 2016 presentation  
     
  The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms gross profit margin year-to-year decline was driven primarily by margin declines in Infrastructure Services. The pre-tax margin decline was primarily due to investments being made in this business. The company continued to invest to deliver the most contemporary offerings that are built with cloud, analytics, mobile, security and cognitive technologies enabling it to transform clients  enterprises. In addition, currency had a year-to-year impact on profit given the strong dollar currency environment.  
     
 61   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Systems   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Adjusted for the System x divestiture and currency  
     
  Systems Hardware revenue included a successful mainframe product cycle in 2015 and continued repositioning in Power Systems. The company continued to deliver innovation to its systems to enable them to run the most contemporary workloads. Approximately half of the Systems Hardware revenue in 2015 was for solutions that address analytics workloads, or hybrid and private clouds. Operating Systems Software declined driven by declines in both z Systems and Power Systems.  
     
  z Systems revenue was driven primarily by the launch of the z13 system in the first quarter of 2015. MIPS (millions of instructions per second) shipments increased 33 percent in 2015. The z13 system was contemporized for the workloads around mobile, hybrid cloud and analytics. Power Systems revenue decreased 0.4 percent as reported, but grew 4 percent adjusted for currency compared to 2014, the first year of revenue growth since 2011. The Power Systems performance reflected the progress being made to transform the platform to align around data and cloud opportunities, while embracing an open ecosystem. Storage revenue declined driven by continued weakness in traditional disk and tape.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Recast to conform with 2016 presentation  
     
  Systems gross profit margin increased year to year driven primarily by an improved mix (10.3 points) due to strong growth in z Systems and the divestiture of the lower margin System x business. The improvement was partially offset by lower margins (3.2 points) in z Systems and Power Systems compared to 2014. The 2015 Systems results reflected a successful transformation and ongoing repositioning of the business including a solid mainframe product cycle.  
     
   Global Financing   
     
  See pages 76 through 81 for an analysis of Global Financing s segment results.  
     
 62   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Geographic Revenue   
     
  In addition to the revenue presentation by reportable segment, the company also measures revenue performance on a geographic basis. The following geographic, regional and country-specific revenue performance excludes OEM revenue.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Adjusted for divestitures and currency  
     
  Americas revenue decreased year to year as reported and adjusted for currency. There was a decline in North America as reported and adjusted for currency. Latin America declined as reported, but grew adjusted for currency. The U.S. decreased 4.4 percent as reported and 3 percent adjusted for divestitures. Canada was down 17.2 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency (13 points) and divestitures (2 points). In Latin America, Brazil decreased 26.0 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency (22 points) and the divested businesses (2 points), while Mexico had growth of 0.5 percent as reported and 14 percent adjusted for currency (9 points) and divestitures (4 points).  
     
  EMEA revenue decreased year to year as reported, but was flat compared to 2014 adjusted for currency and the divested businesses. Germany decreased 13.2 percent as reported, but grew 7 percent adjusted for currency (17 points) and the divested businesses (3 points). The UK decreased 6.3 percent year to year as reported, but grew 3 percent adjusted for currency (7 points) and the divested businesses (2 points). The Middle East and Africa region decreased 4.8 percent as reported, but grew 5 percent adjusted for the divested businesses (6 points) and currency (4 points). Russia decreased 32.2 percent as reported and 24 percent adjusted for the divestitures.  
     
  Asia Pacific revenue decreased 16.5 percent as reported and 2 percent adjusted for currency (9 points) and the divested businesses (6 points) compared to 2014. Japan decreased 9.9 percent as reported, but had growth of 5 percent adjusted for currency (13 points) and the divested businesses (2 points). China decreased 34.4 percent as reported and 21 percent adjusted for the divested businesses (12 points) and currency (1 point). India decreased 3.8 percent as reported, but had growth of 8 percent adjusted for the divested businesses (7 points) and currency (5 points).  
     
   Total Expense and Other (Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

63   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Selling, General and Administrative   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Total SG A expense decreased 11.9 percent versus 2014, primarily driven by the following factors:  
     
        The effects of currency (7 points); 
        Lower workforce rebalancing charges (3 points); and 
        The impact of the divested System x business (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) expense decreased 13.2 percent year to year driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
  Bad debt expense decreased $103 million in 2015 compared to 2014. The receivables provision coverage was 2.6 percent at December 31, 2015, an increase of 40 basis points from December 31, 2014.  
     
   Research, Development and Engineering   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  RD E expense was 6.4 percent of revenue in 2015 and 5.9 percent of revenue in 2014.  
     
  RD E expense decreased 3.5 percent in 2015 versus 2014 primarily driven by:  
     
        The effects of currency (5 points); and 
        The impact of the divested System x business (4 points); partially offset by 
        Increased base spending (4 points); and 
        Higher expense due to acquisitions (1 point). 
     
  Operating (non-GAAP) RD E expense decreased 5.7 percent in 2015 compared to 2014, driven primarily by the same factors.  
     
   Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation  
     
  The timing and amount of licensing, sales and other transfers of IP may vary significantly from period to period depending upon the timing of licensing agreements, economic conditions, industry consolidation and the timing of new patents and know-how development. There were no significant individual IP transactions in 2015 or 2014.  
     
 64   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Other (Income) and Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NM Not meaningful  
     
  The decrease in consolidated other income of $1,214 million year over year was primarily driven by:  
     
                       Lower gains on divestitures ($1,623 million) primarily associated with the divestitures of the System x and customer care businesses in 2014; and 
                       Higher foreign currency transaction losses ($1,013 million); partially offset by 
                       Increased gains on derivative instruments ($1,507 million). 
     
   Interest Expense   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The decrease in interest expense compared to 2014 was primarily driven by lower average debt levels, partially offset by higher average interest rates. Overall interest expense (excluding capitalized interest) was $1,009 million, a decrease of $16 million year to year.  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  The continuing operations effective tax rate for 2015 was 16.2 percent, a decrease of 5.0 points versus 2014, primarily driven by the following factors:  
     
                   The benefit resulting from the completion of the U.S. 2011-2012 tax audit in 2015, including the associated reserve redeterminations (3.9 points); and 
                   A benefit due to the geographic mix of pre-tax income in 2015 (3.5 points); partially offset by 
                   A reduced benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits (2.5 points). 
     
  The continuing operations operating (non-GAAP) effective tax rate was 17.2 percent, a decrease of 3.8 points versus 2014 principally driven by the same factors described above.  
     
   Results of Discontinued Operations   
     
  The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, was $0.2 billion in 2015 and $3.7 billion in 2014. The loss from discontinued operations in 2014 included a nonrecurring pre-tax charge of $4.7 billion, or $3.4 billion, net of tax, which included an impairment to reflect the fair value less estimated costs to sell the Microelectronics business and other estimated costs related to the transaction, including cash consideration. The discontinued operations effective tax rate in 2015 was 40.3 percent compared to 30.2 percent in 2014.  
     
   Financial Position   
     
  At December 31, 2015, the company continued to have the financial flexibility to support the business over the long term. Cash and marketable securities at December 31, 2015 were $8,195 million, a decrease of $282 million from December 31, 2014. During the year, the company continued to manage the investment portfolio to meet its capital preservation and liquidity objectives.  
     
  Total debt of $39,890 million decreased $832 million from the December 31, 2014 level. Within total debt, $27,205 million was in support of the Global Financing business which was leveraged at a 7.3 to 1 ratio. The company continued to have substantial flexibility in the debt markets. During 2015, the company completed bond issuances totaling $3,368 million, with terms ranging from 3 to 7 years, and interest rates ranging from 0.53 to 2.88 percent depending on maturity.  
     
  Consistent with accounting standards, the company remeasured the funded status of its retirement and postretirement plans at December 31. At December 31, 2015, the overall net underfunded position was $15,513 million, a decrease of $1,419 million from December 31, 2014 driven by an increase in discount rates. At December 31, 2015, the company s qualified defined benefit plans were well funded. In 2015, the return on the U.S. Personal Pension Plan assets was negative 1.0 percent and the plan was 101 percent funded at December 31. Overall, global asset returns were negative 0.2 percent and the qualified defined benefit plans worldwide were 97 percent funded at December 31, 2015.  
     
  During 2015, the company generated $17,008 million in cash from operations, an increase of $139 million compared to 2014. The company generated $13,075 million in free cash flow, an increase of $703 million versus 2014. The company returned $9,507 million to shareholders in 2015, with $4,897 million in dividends and $4,609 million in gross share repurchases. In 2015, the company repurchased 30.3 million shares and had $5.6 billion remaining in share repurchase authorization at December 31, 2015.  
     
 65   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   GAAP Reconciliation   
     
  The tables below provide a reconciliation of the company s income statement results as reported under GAAP to its operating earnings presentation which is a non-GAAP measure. The company s calculation of operating (non-GAAP) earnings, as presented, may differ from similarly titled measures reported by other companies. Please refer to the  Operating (non-GAAP) Earnings  section on pages 26 and 27 for the company s rationale for presenting operating earnings information.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amount)  

*             The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
  ($ in millions except per share amount)  

*             The tax impact on operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income is calculated under the same accounting principles applied to the GAAP pre-tax income which employs an annual effective tax rate method to the results. 
     
 66   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   OTHER INFORMATION   
     
   Looking Forward   
     
  The company s strategies, investments and actions are all taken with an objective of optimizing long-term performance. A long-term perspective ensures that the company is well-positioned to take advantage of the major shifts in technology, business and the global economy.  
     
  Within the IT industry, there are major shifts occurring driven by cognitive; including data and analytics, cloud and changes in the ways individuals and enterprises are engaging. The company is bringing together its cognitive technologies on cloud platforms that create industry-based solutions in order to solve enterprise clients  real-world problems. The company continues to address the higher value areas of enterprise IT and is amassing a unique set of capabilities and is differentiating itself from other technology providers as it moves into new spaces, and in some cases, creating entirely new markets. IBM is more than a hardware, software and services company; it has emerged as a cognitive solutions and cloud platform company. The company s strategic imperatives  cloud, analytics, mobile, social and security solutions are focused on these market shifts.  
     
  In 2016, the company made significant progress in its transformation, including strong revenue growth in the strategic imperatives, repositioning of the core businesses, continued high levels of investment, both organic and through acquisitions, and remixing skills. The company had 13 percent growth as reported (14 percent adjusted for currency) in the strategic imperatives, generating $33 billion of revenue, which represented 41 percent of total revenue. The growth rate achieved in 2016 keeps the company ahead of track of previous expectations of $40 billion of revenue from the strategic imperatives in 2018. In addition, the company expects to continue to allocate its capital efficiently and effectively to investments, and to return value to its shareholders through a combination of dividends and share repurchases. Over the long term, in consideration of the opportunities it will continue to develop, the company expects to have the ability to generate low single-digit revenue growth, and with a higher value business mix, high single-digit operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share growth, with free cash flow realization of GAAP net income in the 90 to 100 percent range.  
     
  The company enters 2017 in a stronger position than a year ago, even taking into account the ongoing shifts in the IT industry, country-specific issues and opportunities, certain macro effects of currency and potential tax reform. In 2017, the company will continue to focus on growing the strategic imperatives and the transformation of its core businesses, with a continued high level of investment, although the higher-level investment that began in 2015 has now fully wrapped on a year-to-year basis. While pre-tax income is expected to decline year to year on a GAAP basis due to higher non-operating pension expense, the company expects growth in operating (non-GAAP) pre-tax income in 2017. In order to achieve these expectations, gross profit margin expansion is not required, which gives the company flexibility to accelerate its shift into as-a-Service faster. The company expects to continue to monetize its technology, including through IP licensing arrangements in 2017, with the opportunity for IP income to be flat year to year. Consistent with the long-term model, the company also expects over the course of 2017 to continue to acquire key capabilities, remix skills, invest in areas of growth and return value to shareholders. This is all taken into account in the full-year view. Overall, the company expects GAAP earnings per share from continuing operations for 2017 to be at least $11.95. Excluding acquisition-related charges of $0.75 per share and non-operating retirement-related items of $1.10 per share, operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share is expected to be at least $13.80. For the first quarter of 2017, the company expects operating (non-GAAP) earnings per share to be approximately 17 percent of the full year expectation. The company expects a discrete tax benefit in the first quarter of 2017, similar to the first quarter of 2016, though smaller in size, and other actions are expected to offset a portion of the benefit. This is taken into account in the earnings per share skew for first quarter.  
     
  Free cash flow realization, defined as free cash flow to income from continuing operations (GAAP), was 97 percent as reported in 2016 and is again expected to be in excess of 90 percent in 2017. The company expects free cash flow to be essentially flat year to year.  
     
  The company expects that the 2017 GAAP tax rate will be approximately 3 points lower than the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate expectation. Expectations for the operating (non-GAAP) tax rate are approximately 15 percent plus or minus three points, excluding discrete items. The rate will change year to year based on nonrecurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.  
     
  In January 2017, the company announced a reorganization of its client and commercial financing business as a wholly owned subsidiary, IBM Credit, LLC. The subsidiary is expected to begin accessing capital markets directly in 2017 and the company expects to increase its financing business leverage from 7:1 to 9:1. See page 81 for additional information.  
     
 67   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company expects 2017 pre-tax retirement-related plan cost to be approximately $2.9 billion, an increase of approximately $900 million compared to 2016. This estimate reflects current pension plan assumptions at December 31, 2016. Within total retirement-related plan cost, operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.4 billion, approximately flat versus 2016. Non-operating retirement-related plan cost is expected to be approximately $1.5 billion, an increase of approximately $900 million compared to 2016, driven by lower income from expected return on assets. Contributions for all retirement-related plans are expected to be approximately $2.5 billion in 2017, an increase of approximately $100 million compared to 2016.  
     
  For a discussion of new accounting standards that the company will adopt in future periods, please see note B,  Accounting Changes,  beginning on page 99.  
     
   Liquidity and Capital Resources   
     
  The company has consistently generated strong cash flow from operations, providing a source of funds ranging between $16.9 billion and $19.6 billion per year over the past five years. The company provides for additional liquidity through several sources: maintaining an adequate cash balance, access to global funding sources, a committed global credit facility and other committed and uncommitted lines of credit worldwide. The following table provides a summary of the major sources of liquidity for the years ended December 31, 2012 through 2016.  
     
   Cash Flow and Liquidity Trends   
     
  ($ in billions)  

The major rating agencies  ratings on the company s debt securities at December 31, 2016 appear in the following table and remain unchanged from December 31, 2015. The company s indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the company s consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the company s ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million.  
     
  The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certification to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable.  
     
  The company does not have  ratings trigger  provisions in its debt covenants or documentation, which would allow the holders to declare an event of default and seek to accelerate payments thereunder in the event of a change in credit rating. The company s contractual agreements governing derivative instruments contain standard market clauses which can trigger the termination of the agreement if the company s credit rating were to fall below investment grade. At December 31, 2016, the fair value of those instruments that were in a liability position was $206 million, before any applicable netting, and this position is subject to fluctuations in fair value period to period based on the level of the company s outstanding instruments and market conditions. The company has no other contractual arrangements that, in the event of a change in credit rating, would result in a material adverse effect on its financial position or liquidity.  

Moody s        

Standard        

Investors        

Fitch            

Poor s        

Service        

Ratings            

Senior long-term debt       

AA-       

Aa3       

A+           

Commercial paper       

A-1+       

Prime-1       

F1              
     
  The company prepares its Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows in accordance with applicable accounting standards for cash flow presentation on page 87 and highlights causes and events underlying sources and uses of cash in that format on page 47. For the purpose of running its business, the company manages, monitors and analyzes cash flows in a different format.  
     
 68   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Management uses free cash flow as a measure to evaluate its operating results, plan share repurchase levels, strategic investments and assess its ability and need to incur and service debt. The entire free cash flow amount is not necessarily available for discretionary expenditures. The company defines free cash flow as net cash from operating activities less the change in Global Financing receivables and net capital expenditures, including the investment in software. A key objective of the Global Financing business is to generate strong returns on equity, and increasing receivables is the basis for growth. Accordingly, management considers Global Financing receivables as a profit-generating investment, not as working capital that should be minimized for efficiency. Therefore, management includes presentations of both free cash flow and net cash from operating activities that exclude the effect of Global Financing receivables. Free cash flow guidance is derived using an estimate of profit, working capital and operational cash outflows. As previously noted, the company views Global Financing receivables as a profit generating investment which it seeks to maximize and therefore it is not considered when formulating guidance for free cash flow. As a result, the company does not estimate a GAAP Net Cash from Operations expectation metric.  
     
  From the perspective of how management views cash flow, in 2016, after investing $3.7 billion in capital investments primarily in support of cloud and cognitive, the services backlog and the upcoming new hardware product cycles, the company generated free cash flow of $11.6 billion, a decrease of $1.5 billion compared to 2015. The decrease was driven primarily by performance-related declines in net income and a decline in cash provided by trade receivables; partially offset by a reduction in cash tax payments.  
     
  In 2016, the company continued to focus its cash utilization on returning value to shareholders including $5.3 billion in dividends and $3.5 billion in gross common stock repurchases (23.3 million shares). In addition, $5.7 billion was utilized for 15 acquisitions in 2016.  
     
  Over the past five years, the company generated over $70 billion in free cash flow. During that period, the company invested over $16 billion in strategic acquisitions and returned over $65 billion to shareholders through dividends and net share repurchases. The company s performance during this period demonstrates that there is fungibility across the elements of share repurchases, dividends and acquisitions. The amount of prospective returns to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases will vary based upon several factors including each year s operating results, capital expenditure requirements, research and development investments and acquisitions, as well as the factors discussed below.  
     
  The company s Board of Directors meets quarterly to consider the dividend payment. In the second quarter of 2016, the Board of Directors increased the company s quarterly common stock dividend from $1.30 to $1.40 per share.  
     
  The table below represents the way in which management reviews cash flow as described above.  
     
  ($ in billions)  

69   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Events that could temporarily change the historical cash flow dynamics discussed previously include significant changes in operating results, material changes in geographic sources of cash, unexpected adverse impacts from litigation, future pension funding requirements during periods of severe downturn in the capital markets or the timing of tax payments. Whether any litigation has such an adverse impact will depend on a number of variables, which are more completely described in note M,  Contingencies and Commitments,  on pages 127 to 129. With respect to pension funding, in 2016, the company contributed $507 million to its non-U.S. defined benefit plans compared to $514 million in 2015. As highlighted in the Contractual Obligations table, the company expects to make legally mandated pension plan contributions to certain non-U.S. plans of approximately $2.3 billion in the next five years. The 2017 contributions are currently expected to be approximately $500 million. Contributions related to all retirement-related plans is expected to be approximately $2.5 billion in 2017, an increase of approximately $100 million compared to 2016. Financial market performance could increase the legally mandated minimum contributions in certain non-U.S. countries that require more frequent remeasurement of the funded status. The company is not quantifying any further impact from pension funding because it is not possible to predict future movements in the capital markets or pension plan funding regulations.  
     
  The Pension Protection Act of 2006 was enacted into law in 2006, and, among other things, increased the funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans beginning after December 31, 2007. No mandatory contribution is required for the U.S. defined benefit plan in 2017 as of December 31, 2016.  
     
  The company s U.S. cash flows continue to be sufficient to fund its current domestic operations and obligations, including investing and financing activities such as dividends and debt service. The company s U.S. operations generate substantial cash flows, and, in those circumstances where the company has additional cash requirements in the U.S., the company has several liquidity options available. These options may include the ability to borrow additional funds at reasonable interest rates, utilizing its committed global credit facility, repatriating certain foreign earnings and utilizing intercompany loans with certain foreign subsidiaries.  
     
  The company does earn a significant amount of its pre-tax income outside the U.S. The company s policy is to indefinitely reinvest the undistributed earnings of its foreign subsidiaries, and accordingly, no provision for federal income taxes has been made on accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries. The company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested earnings is not practicable. While the company currently does not have a need to repatriate funds held by its foreign subsidiaries, if these funds are needed for operations and obligations in the U.S., the company could elect to repatriate these funds which could result in a reassessment of the company s policy and increased tax expense.  
     
   Contractual Obligations   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             As funded status on plans will vary, obligations for mandated minimum pension payments after 2021 could not be reasonably estimated. 
  ** These amounts represent the liability for unrecognized tax benefits. The company estimates that approximately $966 million of the liability is expected to be settled within the next 12 months. The settlement period for the noncurrent portion of our income tax liability cannot be reasonably estimated as the timing of the payments will depend on the progress of tax examinations with the various tax authorities; however, it is not expected to be due within the next 12 months.  
     
 70   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Total contractual obligations are reported in the previous table excluding the effects of time value and therefore, may not equal the amounts reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Certain noncurrent liabilities are excluded from the previous table as their future cash outflows are uncertain. This includes deferred taxes, derivatives, deferred income, disability benefits and other sundry items. Certain obligations related to the company s divestitures are included.  
     
  Purchase obligations include all commitments to purchase goods or services of either a fixed or minimum quantity that meet any of the following criteria: (1) they are noncancelable, (2) the company would incur a penalty if the agreement was canceled, or (3) the company must make specified minimum payments even if it does not take delivery of the contracted products or services (take-or-pay). If the obligation to purchase goods or services is noncancelable, the entire value of the contract is included in the previous table. If the obligation is cancelable, but the company would incur a penalty if canceled, the dollar amount of the penalty is included as a purchase obligation. Contracted minimum amounts specified in take-or-pay contracts are also included in the table as they represent the portion of each contract that is a firm commitment.  
     
  In the ordinary course of business, the company enters into contracts that specify that the company will purchase all or a portion of its requirements of a specific product, commodity or service from a supplier or vendor. These contracts are generally entered into in order to secure pricing or other negotiated terms. They do not specify fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased and, therefore, the company does not consider them to be purchase obligations.  
     
  Interest on floating-rate debt obligations is calculated using the effective interest rate at December 31, 2016, plus the interest rate spread associated with that debt, if any.  
     
   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements   
     
  From time to time, the company may enter into off-balance sheet arrangements as defined by SEC Financial Reporting Release 67 (FRR-67),  Disclosure in Management s Discussion and Analysis about Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations.   
     
  At December 31, 2016, the company had no off-balance sheet arrangements that have, or are reasonably likely to have, a material current or future effect on financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources. See the table on page 70 for the company s contractual obligations, and note M,  Contingencies and Commitments,  on page 129, for detailed information about the company s guarantees, financial commitments and indemnification arrangements. The company does not have retained interests in assets transferred to unconsolidated entities or other material off-balance sheet interests or instruments.  
     
   Critical Accounting Estimates   
     
  The application of GAAP requires the company to make estimates and assumptions about certain items and future events that directly affect its reported financial condition. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed in this section are those that the company considers to be the most critical to its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both (a) the nature of the estimate or assumption is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and (b) the impact within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimate and assumption is material to the company s financial condition. Senior management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these estimates with the Audit Committee of the company s Board of Directors. The company s significant accounting policies are described in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on pages 90 to 99.  
     
  A quantitative sensitivity analysis is provided where that information is reasonably available, can be reliably estimated and provides material information to investors. The amounts used to assess sensitivity (e.g., 1 percent, 10 percent, etc.) are included to allow users of the Annual Report to understand a general direction cause and effect of changes in the estimates and do not represent management s predictions of variability. For all of these estimates, it should be noted that future events rarely develop exactly as forecasted, and estimates require regular review and adjustment.  
     
   Pension Assumptions   
     
  For the company s defined benefit pension plans, the measurement of the benefit obligation to employees and net periodic pension (income)/cost requires the use of certain assumptions, including, among others, estimates of discount rates and expected return on plan assets.  
     
  Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the (gain)/loss amortization and interest cost components of the net periodic pension (income)/cost calculation and the projected benefit obligation (PBO). The company decreased the discount rate assumption for the IBM Personal Pension Plan (PPP), a U.S.-based defined benefit plan, by 20 basis points to 3.80 percent on December 31, 2016. This change will increase pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2017 by an estimated $61 million. If the discount rate assumption for the PPP had increased by 20 basis points on December 31, 2016, pre-tax cost and expense recognized in 2017 would have decreased by an estimated $63 million. Changes in the discount rate assumptions would impact the PBO which, in turn, may impact the company s funding decisions if the PBO exceeds plan assets. A 25 basis point increase or decrease in the discount rate would cause a corresponding decrease or increase, respectively, in the PPP s PBO of an estimated $1.2 billion based upon December 31, 2016 data.  
     
 71   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The expected long-term return on plan assets assumption is used in calculating the net periodic pension (income)/cost. Expected returns on plan assets are calculated based on the market-related value of plan assets, which recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost. The differences between the actual return on plan assets and the expected long-term return on plan assets are recognized over five years in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic pension (income)/cost and also as a component of actuarial (gains)/losses, which are recognized over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets, as provided by accounting standards.  
     
  To the extent the outlook for long-term returns changes such that management changes its expected long-term return on plan assets assumption, each 50 basis point increase or decrease in the expected long-term return on PPP plan assets assumption would have an estimated decrease or increase, respectively, of $263 million on the following year s pre-tax net periodic pension (income)/cost (based upon the PPP s plan assets at December 31, 2016 and assuming no contributions are made in 2017).  
     
  The company may voluntarily make contributions or be required, by law, to make contributions to its pension plans. Actual results that differ from the estimates may result in more or less future company funding into the pension plans than is planned by management. Impacts of these types of changes on the company s pension plans in other countries worldwide would vary depending upon the status of each respective plan.  
     
  In addition to the above, the company evaluates other pension assumptions involving demographic factors, such as retirement age and mortality, and updates these assumptions to reflect experience and expectations for the future. Actual results in any given year can differ from actuarial assumptions because of economic and other factors.  
     
  For additional information on the company s pension plans and the development of these assumptions, see Note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  on pages 143 and 144.  
     
   Revenue Recognition   
     
  Application of the various accounting principles in GAAP related to the measurement and recognition of revenue requires the company to make judgments and estimates. Specifically, complex arrangements with nonstandard terms and conditions may require significant contract interpretation to determine the appropriate accounting, including whether the deliverables specified in a multiple-deliverable arrangement should be treated as separate units of accounting. Other significant judgments include determining whether IBM or a reseller is acting as the principal in a transaction and whether separate contracts are considered part of one arrangement.  
     
  Revenue recognition is also impacted by the company s ability to estimate sales incentives, expected returns and collectibility. The company considers various factors, including a review of specific transactions, the creditworthiness of the customers, historical experience and market and economic conditions when calculating these provisions and allowances. Evaluations are conducted each quarter to assess the adequacy of the estimates. If these estimates were changed by 10 percent in 2016, net income would have been impacted by $79 million (excluding Global Financing receivables).  
     
   Costs to Complete Service Contracts   
     
  The company enters into numerous service contracts through its services businesses. During the contractual period, revenue, cost and profits may be impacted by estimates of the ultimate profitability of each contract, especially contracts for which the company uses the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of accounting. If at any time these estimates indicate the POC contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately in cost. The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its POC-based services contracts in order to determine whether the latest estimates require updating. Key factors reviewed by the company to estimate the future costs to complete each contract are future labor costs, future product costs and expected productivity efficiencies. Contract loss provisions recorded as a component of other accrued expenses and liabilities were $13 million and $12 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  The company is subject to income taxes in the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments are required in determining the consolidated provision for income taxes.  
     
  During the ordinary course of business, there are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. As a result, the company recognizes tax liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes and interest will be due. These tax liabilities are recognized when, despite the company s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. The company believes that its accruals for tax liabilities are adequate for all open audit years based on its assessment of many factors, including past experience and interpretations of tax law. This assessment relies on estimates and assumptions, and may involve a series of complex judgments about future events. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  
     
  Significant judgment is also required in determining any valuation allowance recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. In the event that the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the company will adjust its valuation allowance with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  
     
 72   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The consolidated provision for income taxes will change period to period based on nonrecurring events, such as the settlement of income tax audits and changes in tax laws, as well as recurring factors including the geographic mix of income before taxes, the timing and amount of foreign dividend repatriation, state and local taxes and the effects of various global income tax strategies.  
     
  To the extent that the provision for income taxes increases/ decreases by 1 percent of income from continuing operations before income taxes, consolidated net income would have decreased/improved by $123 million in 2016.  
     
   Valuation of Assets   
     
  The application of business combination and impairment accounting requires the use of significant estimates and assumptions. The acquisition method of accounting for business combinations requires the company to estimate the fair value of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to properly allocate purchase price consideration between assets that are depreciated and amortized from goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets. Impairment testing for assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, requires the allocation of cash flows to those assets or group of assets and if required, an estimate of fair value for the assets or group of assets. The company s estimates are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. These valuations require the use of management s assumptions, which would not reflect unanticipated events and circumstances that may occur.  
     
   Valuation of Goodwill   
     
  The company reviews goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. In 2015, the company elected to perform the first step of the quantitative test to compare the fair value of each reporting unit to its carrying value instead of first conducting a qualitative assessment. In 2016, the company resumed the assessment of qualitative risk factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount.  
     
  The company assesses qualitative factors in each of its reporting units that carry goodwill including relevant events and circumstances that affect the fair value of reporting units. Examples include, but are not limited to, macroeconomic, industry and market conditions; as well as other individual factors such as:  
     
                   A loss of key personnel; 
                   A significant adverse shift in the operating environment of the reporting unit such as unanticipated competition; 
                   A significant pending litigation; 
                   A more likely than not expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold or otherwise disposed of; and 
                   An adverse action or assessment by a regulator. 
     
  The company assesses these qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two-step quantitative goodwill impairment test.This quantitative test is required only if the company concludes that it is more likely than not that a reporting unit s fair value is less than its carrying amount.  
     
  In the fourth quarter, the company performed its annual goodwill impairment analysis.The qualitative assessment illustrated evidence of a potential impairment triggering event as a result of the financial performance of the Systems reporting unit. The quantitative analysis resulted in no impairment as the reporting unit s estimated fair value exceeded the carrying amount by over 100 percent.  
     
   Loss Contingencies   
     
  The company is currently involved in various claims and legal proceedings. At least quarterly, the company reviews the status of each significant matter and assesses its potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues a liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is required in both the determination of probability and the determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable. Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are based only on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, the company reassesses the potential liability related to its pending claims and litigation, and may revise its estimates. These revisions in the estimates of the potential liabilities could have a material impact on the company s results of operations and financial position.  
     
   Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses   
     
  The Global Financing business reviews its financing receivables portfolio at least quarterly in order to assess collectibility. A description of the methods used by management to estimate the amount of uncollectible receivables is included in note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 98. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular client that represents a concentration in Global Financing s receivables portfolio.  
     
  To the extent that actual collectibility differs from management s estimates currently provided for by 10 percent, Global Financing s segment pre-tax income and the company s income from continuing operations before income taxes would be higher or lower by an estimated $44 million depending upon whether the actual collectibility was better or worse, respectively, than the estimates.  
     
   Residual Value   
     
  Residual value represents the estimated fair value of equipment under lease as of the end of the lease. Residual value estimates impact the determination of whether a lease is classified as operating or capital. Global Financing estimates the future fair value of leased equipment by using historical models, analyzing the current market for new and used equipment, and obtaining forward-looking product information such as marketing plans  
     
 73   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  and technological innovations. Residual value estimates are periodically reviewed and  other than temporary  declines in estimated future residual values are recognized upon identification. Anticipated increases in future residual values are not recognized until the equipment is remarketed.  
     
  Factors that could cause actual results to materially differ from the estimates include significant changes in the used-equipment market brought on by unforeseen changes in technology innovations and any resulting changes in the useful lives of used equipment.  
     
  To the extent that actual residual value recovery is lower than management s estimates by 10 percent, Global Financing s segment pre-tax income and the company s income from continuing operations before income taxes for 2016 would have been lower by an estimated $72 million. If the actual residual value recovery is higher than management s estimates, the increase in income will be realized at the end of lease when the equipment is remarketed.  
     
   Currency Rate Fluctuations   
     
  Changes in the relative values of non-U.S. currencies to the U.S. dollar affect the company s financial results and financial position. At December 31, 2016, currency changes resulted in assets and liabilities denominated in local currencies being translated into less dollars than at year-end 2015. The company uses financial hedging instruments to limit specific currency risks related to financing transactions and other foreign currency-based transactions.  
     
  During periods of sustained movements in currency, the marketplace and competition adjust to the changing rates. For example, when pricing offerings in the marketplace, the company may use some of the advantage from a weakening U.S. dollar to improve its position competitively, and price more aggressively to win the business, essentially passing on a portion of the currency advantage to its customers. Competition will frequently take the same action. Consequently, the company believes that some of the currency-based changes in cost impact the prices charged to clients. The company also maintains currency hedging programs for cash management purposes which temporarily mitigate, but do not eliminate, the volatility of currency impacts on the company s financial results.  
     
  The company translates revenue, cost and expense in its non-U.S. operations at current exchange rates in the reported period. References to  adjusted for currency  or  constant currency  reflect adjustments based upon a simple mathematical formula. However, this constant currency methodology that the company utilizes to disclose this information does not incorporate any operational actions that management may take in reaction to fluctuating currency rates. Currency movements impacted the company s year-to-year revenue and earnings per share growth in 2016. Based on the currency rate movements in 2016, total revenue decreased 2.2 percent as reported and 1.6 percent at constant currency versus 2015. On an income from continuing operations before income taxes basis, these translation impacts offset by the net impact of hedging activities resulted in a theoretical maximum (assuming no pricing or sourcing actions) increase of approximately $125 million in 2016, on an as-reported basis and an increase of approximately $150 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The same mathematical exercise resulted in a decrease of approximately $900 million in 2015 on an as-reported basis and a decrease of approximately $1,000 million on an operating (non-GAAP) basis. The company views these amounts as a theoretical maximum impact to its as-reported financial results. Considering the operational responses mentioned above, movements of exchange rates, and the nature and timing of hedging instruments, it is difficult to predict future currency impacts on any particular period, but the company believes it could be substantially less than the theoretical maximum given the competitive pressure in the marketplace.  
     
  For non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars or whose economic environment is highly inflationary, translation adjustments are reflected in results of operations. Generally, the company manages currency risk in these entities by linking prices and contracts to U.S. dollars.  
     
  The company continues to monitor the economic conditions in Venezuela. In mid-February 2016, changes to the currency exchange systems were announced which eliminated the SICAD exchange rate and replaced the SIMADI rate with DICOM, which is expected to be a floating exchange rate. The company recorded a pre-tax loss of $43 million in the first quarter of 2016 in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as a result of the elimination of SICAD and devaluation of the new exchange. The system for currency exchange in Venezuela has remained constant through the fourth quarter and the company continued to use the SIMADI rate since the DICOM rate had not been instrumented by the authorities. Total pre-tax loss for 2016 was $48 million. The company s net assets denominated in local currency were $11 million at December 31, 2016. The company s operations in Venezuela comprised less than 1 percent of total 2016, 2015 and 2014 revenue, respectively.  
     
   Market Risk   
     
  In the normal course of business, the financial position of the company is routinely subject to a variety of risks. In addition to the market risk associated with interest rate and currency movements on outstanding debt and non-U.S. dollar denominated assets and liabilities, other examples of risk include collectibility of accounts receivable and recoverability of residual values on leased assets.  
     
  The company regularly assesses these risks and has established policies and business practices to protect against the adverse effects of these and other potential exposures. As a result, the company does not anticipate any material losses from these risks.  
     
  The company s debt, in support of the Global Financing business and the geographic breadth of the company s operations, contains an element of market risk from changes in interest and currency rates. The company manages this risk, in part, through the use of a variety of financial instruments including derivatives, as described in note D,  Financial Instruments Derivative Financial Instruments,  on pages 110 through 114.  
     
 74   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  To meet disclosure requirements, the company performs a sensitivity analysis to determine the effects that market risk exposures may have on the fair values of the company s debt and other financial instruments.  
     
  The financial instruments that are included in the sensitivity analysis are comprised of the company s cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, short-term and long-term loans, commercial financing and installment payment receivables, investments, long-term and short-term debt and derivative financial instruments. The company s derivative financial instruments generally include interest rate swaps, foreign currency swaps and forward contracts.  
     
  To perform the sensitivity analysis, the company assesses the risk of loss in fair values from the effect of hypothetical changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates on market-sensitive instruments. The market values for interest and foreign currency exchange risk are computed based on the present value of future cash flows as affected by the changes in rates that are attributable to the market risk being measured. The discount rates used for the present value computations were selected based on market interest and foreign currency exchange rates in effect at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The differences in this comparison are the hypothetical gains or losses associated with each type of risk.  
     
  Information provided by the sensitivity analysis does not necessarily represent the actual changes in fair value that the company would incur under normal market conditions because, due to practical limitations, all variables other than the specific market risk factor are held constant. In addition, the results of the model are constrained by the fact that certain items are specifically excluded from the analysis, while the financial instruments relating to the financing or hedging of those items are included by definition. Excluded items include short-term and long-term receivables from sales-type and direct financing leases, forecasted foreign currency cash flows and the company s net investment in foreign operations. As a consequence, reported changes in the values of some of the financial instruments impacting the results of the sensitivity analysis are not matched with the offsetting changes in the values of the items that those instruments are designed to finance or hedge.  
     
  The results of the sensitivity analysis at December 31, 2016 and 2015, are as follows:  
     
   Interest Rate Risk   
     
  At December 31, 2016, a 10 percent decrease in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $147 million as compared with a decrease of $69 million at December 31, 2015. A 10 percent increase in the levels of interest rates with all other variables held constant would result in an increase in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $142 million as compared to an increase of $66 million at December 31, 2015. Changes in the relative sensitivity of the fair value of the company s financial instrument portfolio for these theoretical changes in the level of interest rates are primarily driven by changes in the company s debt maturities, interest rate profile and amount.  
     
   Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk   
     
  At December 31, 2016, a 10 percent weaker U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in a decrease in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $132 million as compared with a decrease of $74 million at December 31, 2015. Conversely, a 10 percent stronger U.S. dollar against foreign currencies, with all other variables held constant, would result in an increase in the fair value of the company s financial instruments of $132 million compared with an increase of $74 million at December 31, 2015.  
     
   Financing Risks   
     
  See the  Description of Business  on page 34 for a discussion of the financing risks associated with the Global Financing business and management s actions to mitigate such risks.  
     
   Cybersecurity   
     
  The company s approach to cybersecurity draws on the depth and breadth of its global capabilities, both in terms of its offerings to clients and its internal approaches to risk management. The company has commercial solutions that deliver identity and access management, data security, application security, network security and endpoint security. IBM s solutions include security intelligence, analytics and forensic tools that can collect information on customer IT security events and vulnerabilities and provide detailed information to customers about potential threats and security posture. The company s services businesses offer professional solutions for security from assessment and incident response to deployment and resource augmentation. In addition, the company offers managed and outsourced security solutions from multiple security operations centers around the world. Finally, security is embedded in a multitude of IBM offerings through secure engineering processes and by critical functions (encryption, access control, etc.) in servers, storage, software, service, and other solutions.  
     
  From an enterprise perspective, IBM implements a multi-faceted risk-management approach to identify and address cybersecurity risks. The company has established policies and procedures that provide the foundation upon which IBM s infrastructure and data are managed. IBM performs ongoing assessments regarding its technical controls and its methods for identifying emerging risks related to cybersecurity. The company uses a layered approach with overlapping controls to defend against cybersecurity attacks and threats on networks, end-user devices, servers, applications and cloud solutions. The company also has a global incident response process to respond to cybersecurity threats. In addition, the company utilizes a combination of online training, educational tools, social media and other awareness initiatives to foster a culture of security awareness and responsibility among its workforce.  
     
 75   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Employees and Related Workforce   
     
  (In thousands)  

As a globally integrated enterprise, the company operates in more than 175 countries and is continuing to shift its business to the higher value segments of enterprise IT. The company continues to remix its skills and people needs to match the best opportunities in the marketplace.  
     
  The complementary workforce is an approximation of equivalent full-time employees hired under temporary, part-time and limited-term employment arrangements to meet specific business needs in a flexible and cost-effective manner.  
     
   GLOBAL FINANCING   
     
  Global Financing is a reportable segment that is measured as a stand-alone entity.  
     
  In 2016, the Global Financing business remained focused on its core competencies providing IT financing to the company s clients and business partners. For the year, Global Financing delivered external revenue of $1,692 million and total revenue of $3,494 million. Total pre-tax income of $1,656 million decreased 29.9 percent compared to 2015 and return on equity was 30.6 percent.  
     
  In addition to the overall health of the economy and its impact on corporate IT budgets, key drivers of Global Financing s results are interest rates and originations. Interest rates directly impact Global Financing s business by increasing or decreasing both financing revenue and the associated borrowing costs. Originations, which determine the asset base of Global Financing s annuity-like business, are impacted by IBM s non-Global Financing sales and services volumes and Global Financing s participation rates. Participation rates are the propensity of IBM s clients to finance their transactions through Global Financing in lieu of paying IBM up-front cash or financing through a third party.  
     
   Results of Operations   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*               See page 80 for the details of the after-tax income and return on equity calculation. 
     
  Total revenue in 2016 decreased $983 million versus 2015 as a result of:  
     
                   A decline in external revenue of 8.0 percent (down 6.9 percent adjusted for currency), due to a decrease in financing revenue (down 11.2 percent to $1,231 million), partially offset by an increase in used equipment sales revenue (up 1.6 percent to $461 million); and 
                   A decline in internal revenue of 31.7 percent, due to decreases in used equipment sales revenue (down 35.5 percent to $1,486 million) and financing revenue (down 5.2 percent to $316 million). 
     
  The decrease in external financing revenue was due to lower asset yields and a decrease in average asset balance, as well as a decline in remarketing lease revenue. The decrease in internal financing revenue was primarily due to lower asset yields, partially offset by an increase in average asset balance.  
     
  Global Financing gross profit decreased 23.4 percent in 2016 compared to 2015, due to decreases in used equipment sales gross profit and financing gross profit. The gross profit margin declined 1.3 points compared to 2015 due to a decrease in equipment sales margin, partially offset by an increase in financing margin.  
     
 76   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Total revenue in 2015 decreased $45 million versus 2014 as a result of:  
     
                   A decrease in external revenue of 9.5 percent (up 1.5 percent adjusted for currency), driven by decreases in financing revenue (down 10.2 percent to $1,386 million) and used equipment sales revenue (down 7.6 percent to $454 million); partially offset by 
                   An increase in internal revenue of 6.0 percent driven by an increase in used equipment sales revenue (up 10.7 percent to $2,303 million); partially offset by a decrease in financing revenue (down 18.3 percent to $334 million). 
     
  The decrease in external and internal financing revenue was primarily due to decreases in the average asset balance and yields, as well as a decrease in remarketing lease revenue.  
     
  Global Financing gross profit decreased 0.9 percent compared to 2014 due to a decrease in financing gross profit, partially offset by an increase in used equipment sales gross profit. The gross profit margin was flat compared to 2014 with an increase in equipment sales margin, offset by a shift in mix away from higher margin financing and a decrease in financing margin.  
     
  Global Financing pre-tax income decreased 29.9 percent in 2016 versus 2015, following an increase of 8.0 percent in 2015 versus 2014. The decrease in 2016 was driven by a decrease in gross profit ($717 million) and an increase in selling, general and administrative expenses ($66 million), partially offset by a decrease in financing receivables provisions ($75 million). The increase in 2015 was driven by decreases in selling, general and administrative expenses ($107 million) and financing receivables provisions ($96 million); partially offset by the decrease in gross profit ($29 million). The decrease in financing receivable provisions in 2016 was due to lower specific reserve requirements in China, partially offset by higher reserves in Brazil in the current year. At December 31, 2016, the overall allowance for credit losses coverage rate was 1.6 percent, a decrease of 54 basis points year over year primarily due to a write-off of previously reserved receivables.  
     
  The decrease in return on equity from 2015 to 2016 was driven by the decrease in net income, partially offset by a lower average equity balance. The increase in return on equity from 2014 to 2015 was driven by the increase in net income and a lower average equity balance.  
     
   Financial Condition   
       
   Balance Sheet   
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)       Includes intercompany mark-up, priced on an arm s-length basis, on products purchased from the company s product divisions which is eliminated in IBM s consolidated results 
  (2)       Entire amount eliminated for purposes of IBM s consolidated results and therefore does not appear on page 86 
  (3)       These assets, along with all other financing assets in this table, are leveraged at the value in the table using Global Financing debt. 
  (4)       Global Financing debt is comprised of intercompany loans and external debt. A portion of Global Financing debt is in support of the company s internal business, or related to intercompany mark-up embedded in the Global Financing assets. 
     
 77   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Sources and Uses of Funds   
     
  The primary use of funds in Global Financing is to originate client and commercial financing assets. Client financing assets for end users consist primarily of IBM systems, software and services, but also include OEM equipment, software and services to meet IBM clients  total solutions requirements. Client financing assets are primarily sales-type, direct financing and operating leases for systems products, as well as loans and installment payment plans for systems, software and services with terms up to seven years. Global Financing s client loans and installment payment plans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These agreements are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks, which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation.  
     
  Commercial financing receivables arise primarily from inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory financing and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days. These short-term receivables are primarily unsecured and are also subjected to additional credit analysis in order to evaluate the associated risk.  
     
  In addition to the actions previously described, the company has a long-standing practice of taking mitigation actions, in certain circumstances, to transfer credit risk to third parties, including credit insurance, financial guarantees, non-recourse borrowings, transfer of receivables recorded as true sale in accordance with accounting guidance or sales of equipment under operating lease.  
     
  At December 31, 2016, substantially all financing assets were IT related assets, and approximately 52 percent of the total external portfolio was with investment grade clients with no direct exposure to consumers. The reduction in investment grade year to year (3 points) was driven primarily by rating changes within the existing portfolio, not by changing the company s approach to the market. This investment grade percentage is based on credit ratings of the companies in the portfolio. Additionally, as noted above, the company takes actions to transfer exposure to third parties. On that basis, the investment grade content would increase by 14 points to 66 percent, also a reduction of 3 points year to year.  
     
   Originations   
     
  The following are total financing originations:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

In 2016, cash collection of client financing assets exceeded new financing originations, while new financing originations of commercial financing exceeded collections. This resulted in a net decline in financing assets from December 2015. The decrease in originations in 2016 versus 2015, as well as the decrease in originations in 2015 versus 2014, was due to declining volumes. Internal loan financing with Technology Services   Cloud Platforms is executed under a loan facility and is not considered originations.  
     
  Cash generated by Global Financing in 2016 was deployed to pay intercompany payables and dividends to IBM as well as external payables to business partners and OEM suppliers.  
     
   Global Financing Receivables and Allowances   
     
  The following table presents external financing receivables excluding residual values, and the allowance for credit losses:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Roll Forward of Global Financing Receivables Allowance for Credit Losses   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Represents reserved receivables, net of recoveries, that were written off during the period  
  ** Primarily represents translation adjustments  
     
 78   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The percentage of Global Financing receivables reserved was 1.6 percent at December 31, 2016, and 2.1 percent at December 31, 2015. In the fourth quarter of 2016, write-offs of $188 million of receivables previously reserved, primarily in China, was the primary driver of the 35 percent reduction in the specific allowance, from $517 million at December 31, 2015, to $335 million at December 31, 2016. See note F,  Financing Receivables  on pages 114 to 118 for additional information. Unallocated reserves increased 10 percent from $93 million at December 31, 2015, to $103 million at December 31, 2016, due to higher general reserve requirements in Brazil.  
     
  Global Financing s bad debt expense was $69 million for 2016, compared to $144 million for 2015. The year-to-year decrease in bad debt expense was due to lower specific reserve requirements in China, partially offset by higher reserve requirements in Brazil in the current year.  
     
   Residual Value   
     
  Residual value is a risk unique to the financing business and management of this risk is dependent upon the ability to accurately project future equipment values at lease inception. Global Financing has insight into product plans and cycles for the IBM products under lease. Based upon this product information, Global Financing continually monitors projections of future equipment values and compares them with the residual values reflected in the portfolio.  
     
  Global Financing optimizes the recovery of residual values by selling assets sourced from end of lease, leasing used equipment to new clients, or extending lease arrangements with current clients. Sales of equipment include equipment returned at the end of a lease, surplus internal equipment, or used equipment purchased externally. These sales represented 55.7 percent and 61.6 percent of Global Financing s revenue in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease was due to a lower volume of used equipment sales for internal transactions. The gross profit margins on total equipment sales were 60.5 percent and 66.0 percent in 2016 and 2015, respectively. The decrease in the gross profit margin was primarily driven by a shift in mix away from higher margin internal equipment sales.  
     
  The table below presents the recorded amount of unguaranteed residual value for sales-type, direct financing and operating leases at December 31, 2016 and 2015. In addition, the table presents the residual value as a percentage of the related original amount financed and a run out of when the unguaranteed residual value assigned to equipment on leases at December 31, 2016 is expected to be returned to the company. In addition to the unguaranteed residual value, on a limited basis, Global Financing will obtain guarantees of the future value of the equipment to be returned at end of lease. While primarily focused on IBM products, guarantees are also obtained for certain OEM products. These third-party guarantees are included in minimum lease payments as provided for by accounting standards in the determination of lease classifications for the covered equipment and provide protection against risk of loss arising from declines in equipment values for these assets.  
     
  The residual value guarantee increases the minimum lease payments that are utilized in determining the classification of a lease as a sales-type lease, direct financing lease or operating lease. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of sales-type leases were $329 million and $811 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, respectively. In 2016, the residual value guarantee program resulted in the company recognizing approximately $220 million of revenue that would otherwise have been recognized in future periods as operating lease revenue. If the company had chosen to not participate in a residual value guarantee program in 2016 and prior years, the 2016 impact would be substantially mitigated by the effect of prior year asset values being recognized as operating lease revenue in the current year. The aggregate asset values associated with the guarantees of direct financing leases were $169 million and $185 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The associated aggregate guaranteed future values at the scheduled end of lease were $19 million and $54 million for the financing transactions originated during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The cost of guarantees was $2 million and $5 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   Unguaranteed Residual Value   
     
  ($ in millions)  

79   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Debt   

The debt used to fund Global Financing assets is composed of intercompany loans and external debt. Total debt changes generally correspond with the level of client and commercial financing receivables, the level of cash and cash equivalents, the change in intercompany and external payables and the change in intercompany investment from IBM. The terms of the intercompany loans are set by the company to substantially match the term and currency underlying the financing receivable and are based on arm s-length pricing.  
     
  Global Financing provides financing predominantly for the company s external client assets, as well as for assets under contract by other IBM units. As previously stated, the company measures Global Financing as a stand-alone entity, and accordingly, interest expense relating to debt supporting Global Financing s external client and internal business is included in the  Global Financing Results of Operations  on page 76 and in note T,  Segment Information,  on pages 150 to 154. In the company s Consolidated Statement of Earnings, the external debt-related interest expense supporting Global Financing s internal financing to the company is reclassified from cost of financing to interest expense.  
     
  The following table provides additional information on total company debt. In this table, intercompany activity includes internal loans and leases at arm s-length pricing in support of long-term services contracts and other internal activity. The company believes these assets should be appropriately leveraged in line with the overall Global Financing business model.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Liquidity and Capital Resources   
     
  Global Financing is a segment of the company, and therefore is supported by the company s overall liquidity position and access to capital markets. Cash generated by Global Financing was deployed to pay dividends to the company in order to maintain an appropriate debt-to-equity ratio.  
     
   Return on Equity   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Calculated based upon an estimated tax rate principally based on Global Financing s geographic mix of earnings as IBM s provision for income taxes is determined on a consolidated basis 
  **      Average of the ending equity for Global Financing for the last five quarters 
     
 80   

Management Discussion   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Looking Forward   
     
  Global Financing s financial position provides flexibility and funding capacity which enables the company to be well positioned in the current environment. Global Financing s assets and new financing volumes are IBM and OEM products and services financed to the company s clients and business partners, and substantially all financing assets are IT related assets which provide a stable base of business for future growth. Global Financing s offerings are competitive and available to clients as a result of the company s borrowing cost and access to the capital markets. Overall, Global Financing s originations will be dependent upon the demand for IT products and services as well as client participation rates.  
     
  IBM continues to access both the short-term commercial paper market and the medium- and long-term debt markets. A protracted period where IBM could not access the capital markets would likely lead to a slowdown in originations.  
     
  As part of its transformation, the company changed the structure of its financing business in January 2017 to drive operational benefits. The client and commercial financing businesses have been reorganized as a wholly owned subsidiary, IBM Credit LLC. This will drive operational benefits by consolidating the operations of the financing business. Debt will be issued directly out of the new entity, and the new entity is expected to be able to access the capital markets later in 2017. The financing business expects to increase its leverage from approximately 7:1 to 9:1, which represents an increase of approximately $600 million in Global Financing debt. The Global Financing segment remains unchanged, and will continue to include the client and commercial financing businesses, as well as the hardware remanufacturing and remarketing business.  
     
  Interest rates and the overall economy (including currency fluctuations) will have an effect on both revenue and gross profit. The company s interest rate risk management policy, however, combined with the Global Financing pricing strategy should mitigate gross margin erosion due to changes in interest rates.  
     
  The economy could impact the credit quality of the Global Financing receivables portfolio and therefore the level of provision for credit losses. Global Financing will continue to apply rigorous credit policies in both the origination of new business and the evaluation of the existing portfolio and will take risk mitigation actions when necessary.  
     
  As previously discussed, Global Financing has historically been able to manage residual value risk both through insight into the company s product cycles, as well as through its remarketing business.  
     
  Global Financing has policies in place to manage each of the key risks involved in financing. These policies, combined with product and client knowledge, should allow for the prudent management of the business going forward, even during periods of uncertainty with respect to the global economy.  
     
 81   

Report of Management   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Management Responsibility for Financial Information   
     
  Responsibility for the integrity and objectivity of the financial information presented in this Annual Report rests with IBM management. The accompanying financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, applying certain estimates and judgments as required.  
     
  IBM maintains an effective internal control structure. It consists, in part, of organizational arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority, and comprehensive systems and control procedures. An important element of the control environment is an ongoing internal audit program. Our system also contains self-monitoring mechanisms, and actions are taken to correct deficiencies as they are identified.  
     
  To assure the effective administration of internal controls, we carefully select and train our employees, develop and disseminate written policies and procedures, provide appropriate communication channels and foster an environment conducive to the effective functioning of controls. We believe that it is essential for the company to conduct its business affairs in accordance with the highest ethical standards, as set forth in the IBM Business Conduct Guidelines. These guidelines, translated into numerous languages, are distributed to employees throughout the world, and reemphasized through internal programs to assure that they are understood and followed.  
     
  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors is composed solely of independent, non-management directors, and is responsible for recommending to the Board the independent registered public accounting firm to be retained for the coming year, subject to stockholder ratification. The Audit Committee meets regularly and privately with the independent registered public accounting firm, with the company s internal auditors, as well as with IBM management, to review accounting, auditing, internal control structure and financial reporting matters.  
     
   Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
     
  Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting of the company. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  
     
  The company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
     
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
     
  Management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that the company s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2016.  
     
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, is retained to audit IBM s Consolidated Financial Statements and the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting. Its accompanying report is based on audits conducted in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  

/s/ Virginia M.   Rometty       

Virginia   M. Rometty        

Chairman,   President and Chief Executive Officer       

February 28,   2017       

/s/ Martin J.   Schroeter       

Martin   J. Schroeter        

Senior Vice   President and Chief Financial Officer       

February 28,   2017       

82   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of International Business Machines Corporation:   
     
  In our opinion, the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Financial Position and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings, Comprehensive Income, Changes in Equity, and Cash Flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of International Business Machines Corporation and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) (2013). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing on page 82. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  
     
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.  
     
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
     
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
     
   PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   
  New York, New York  
  February 28, 2017  
     
 83   

Consolidated Statement of Earnings   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
       
 84   

Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 85   

Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 86   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 87   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 88   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Amounts may not add due to rounding.  
  The accompanying notes on pages 90 through 154 are an integral part of the financial statements.  
     
 89   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE A. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES   
     
   Basis of Presentation   
     
  The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes of the International Business Machines Corporation (IBM or the company) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).  
     
  Within the financial statements and tables presented, certain columns and rows may not add due to the use of rounded numbers for disclosure purposes. Percentages presented are calculated from the underlying whole-dollar amounts. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. This is annotated where applicable.  
     
  On October 20, 2014, the company announced a definitive agreement to divest its Microelectronics business and manufacturing operations to GLOBALFOUNDRIES. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. Refer to note C,  Acquisitions/Divestitures,  for additional information on the transaction.  
     
  In January 2016, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system. These changes impacted the company s reportable segments, but did not impact the company s Consolidated Financial Statements. Refer to note T,  Segment Information,  on pages 150 to 154 for additional information on the changes in reportable segments.  
     
  Noncontrolling interest amounts of $16 million, $8 million and $6 million, net of tax, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, are included as a reduction within other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
   Principles of Consolidation   
     
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of IBM and its controlled subsidiaries, which are primarily majority owned. Any noncontrolling interest in the equity of a subsidiary is reported in Equity in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Net income and losses attributable to the noncontrolling interest is reported as described above in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The accounts of variable interest entities (VIEs) are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements, if required. Investments in business entities in which the company does not have control, but has the ability to exercise significant influence over operating and financial policies, are accounted for using the equity method and the company s proportionate share of income or loss is recorded in other (income) and expense. The accounting policy for other investments in equity securities is on page 98 within  Marketable Securities.  Equity investments in non-publicly traded entities are primarily accounted for using the cost method. All intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated in consolidation.  
     
   Use of Estimates   
     
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue, costs, expenses and other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI) that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying disclosures. These estimates are based on management s best knowledge of current events, historical experience, actions that the company may undertake in the future and on various other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. As a result, actual results may be different from these estimates. See  Critical Accounting Estimates  on pages 71 to 74 for a discussion of the company s critical accounting estimates.  
     
   Revenue   
     
  The company recognizes revenue when it is realized or realizable and earned. The company considers revenue realized or realizable and earned when it has persuasive evidence of an arrangement, delivery has occurred, the sales price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery does not occur until products have been shipped or services have been provided to the client, risk of loss has transferred to the client, and either client acceptance has been obtained, client acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the company has objective evidence that the criteria specified in the client acceptance provisions have been satisfied. The sales price is not considered to be fixed or determinable until all contingencies related to the sale have been resolved.  
     
  The company recognizes revenue on sales to solution providers, resellers and distributors (herein referred to as  resellers ) when the reseller has: economic substance apart from the company, credit risk, risk of loss to the inventory; and, the fee to the company is not contingent upon resale or payment by the end user, the company has no further obligations related to bringing about resale or delivery and all other revenue recognition criteria have been met.  
     
  The company reduces revenue for estimated client returns, stock rotation, price protection, rebates and other similar allowances. (See Schedule II,  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves  included in the company s Annual Report on Form 10-K). Revenue is recognized only if these estimates can be reasonably and reliably determined. The company bases its estimates on historical results taking into consideration the type of client, the type of transaction and the specifics of each arrangement. Payments made under cooperative marketing programs are recognized as an expense only if the company receives from the client an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably and reliably estimated. If the company does not receive an identifiable benefit sufficiently separable from the product sale whose fair value can be reasonably estimated, such payments are recorded as a reduction of revenue.  
     
  Revenue from sales of third-party vendor products or services is recorded net of costs when the company is acting as an agent between the client and the vendor, and gross when the company is a principal to the transaction. Several factors are considered to determine whether the company is an agent or principal, most notably whether the company is the primary obligor to the client, or has inventory risk. Consideration is also given to whether the company adds meaningful value to the vendor s product or service, was involved in the selection of the vendor s product or service, has latitude in establishing the sales price or has credit risk.  
     
  The company reports revenue net of any revenue-based taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed on and concurrent with specific revenue-producing transactions. In addition to the aforementioned general policies, the following  
     
 90   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  are the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue.  
     
   Multiple-Deliverable Arrangements   
     
  The company enters into revenue arrangements that may consist of multiple deliverables of its products and services based on the needs of its clients. These arrangements may include any combination of services, software, hardware and/or financing. For example, a client may purchase a server that includes operating system software. In addition, the arrangement may include post-contract support for the software and a contract for post-warranty maintenance service for the hardware. These types of arrangements can also include financing provided by the company. These arrangements consist of multiple deliverables, with the hardware and software delivered in one reporting period, and the software support and hardware maintenance services delivered across multiple reporting periods. In another example, a client may outsource the running of its datacenter operations to the company on a long-term, multiple-year basis and periodically purchase servers and/or software products from the company to upgrade or expand its facility. The outsourcing services are provided on a continuous basis across multiple reporting periods, and the hardware and software products are delivered in one reporting period. To the extent that a deliverable in a multiple-deliverable arrangement is subject to specific accounting guidance that deliverable is accounted for in accordance with such specific guidance. Examples of such arrangements may include leased hardware which is subject to specific leasing guidance or software which is subject to specific software revenue recognition guidance on whether and/or how to separate multiple-deliverable arrangements into separate units of accounting (separability) and how to allocate the arrangement consideration among those separate units of accounting (allocation). For all other deliverables in multiple-deliverable arrangements, the guidance below is applied for separability and allocation. A multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if the following criteria are met:  
     
                   The delivered item(s) has value to the client on a standalone basis; and 
                   If the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered item(s), delivery or performance of the undelivered item(s) is considered probable and substantially in the control of the company. 
     
  If these criteria are not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is a relative selling price for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative selling price. The following revenue policies are then applied to each unit of accounting, as applicable.  
     
  Revenue from the company s cloud, analytics, mobile, security, and cognitive offerings follow the specific revenue recognition policies for multiple-deliverable arrangements and for each major category of revenue depending on the type of offering which can be comprised of services, hardware and/or software.  
     
   Services   
     
  The company s primary services offerings include information technology (IT) datacenter and business process outsourcing, application management services, consulting and systems integration, technology infrastructure and system maintenance, hosting and the design and development of complex IT systems to a client s specifications (design and build). Many of these services can be delivered entirely or partially through as-a-Service or cloud delivery models. These services are provided on a time-and-material basis, as a fixed-price contract or as a fixed-price per measure of output contract and the contract terms range from less than one year to over 10 years.  
     
  Revenue from IT datacenter and business process outsourcing contracts is recognized in the period the services are provided using either an objective measure of output or on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Under the output method, the amount of revenue recognized is based on the services delivered in the period.  
     
  Revenue from application management services, technology infrastructure, and system maintenance and hosting contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the terms of the contracts. Revenue from time-and-material contracts is recognized as labor hours are delivered and direct expenses are incurred. Revenue related to extended warranty and product maintenance contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period.  
     
  Revenue from fixed-price design and build contracts is recognized under the percentage-of-completion (POC) method. Under the POC method, revenue is recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. If circumstances arise that change the original estimates of revenues, costs, or extent of progress toward completion, revisions to the estimates are made. These revisions may result in increases or decreases in estimated revenues or costs, and such revisions are reflected in income in the period in which the circumstances that gave rise to the revision become known by the company.  
     
  The company performs ongoing profitability analyses of its services contracts accounted for under the POC method in order to determine whether the latest estimates of revenues, costs and profits require updating. If at any time these estimates indicate that the contract will be unprofitable, the entire estimated loss for the remainder of the contract is recorded immediately. For non-POC method services contracts, any losses are recorded as incurred.  
     
  In some services contracts, the company bills the client prior to recognizing revenue from performing the services. Deferred income of $5,873 million and $6,039 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, is included in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. In other services contracts, the company performs the services prior to billing the client. Unbilled accounts receivable of $1,611 million and $1,630 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, is included in notes and accounts receivable-trade in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  Billings usually occur in the month after the company performs the services or in accordance with specific contractual provisions. Unbilled receivables are expected to be billed within four months.  
     
 91   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Hardware   
     
  The company s hardware offerings include the sale or lease of system servers and storage solutions. The company also offers installation services for its more complex hardware products.  
     
  Revenue from hardware sales and sales-type leases is recognized when risk of loss has transferred to the client and there are no unfulfilled company obligations that affect the client s final acceptance of the arrangement. Any cost of standard warranties and remaining obligations that are inconsequential or perfunctory are accrued when the corresponding revenue is recognized. Revenue from rentals and operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the rental or lease.  
     
   Software   
     
  Revenue from perpetual (one-time charge) license software is recognized at the inception of the license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Revenue from post-contract support, which may include unspecified upgrades on a when-and-if-available basis, is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period such items are delivered. Revenue from software hosting or Software-as-a-Service arrangements is recognized as the service is delivered. In software hosting arrangements, the rights provided to the customer (e.g., ownership of a license, contract termination provisions and the feasibility of the customer to operate the software) are considered in determining whether the arrangement includes a license. In arrangements which include a software license, the associated revenue is recognized according to whether the license is perpetual or term. Revenue from term (recurring license charge) license software is recognized on a straight-line basis over the period that the client is entitled to use the license.  
     
  In multiple-deliverable arrangements that include software that is more than incidental to the products or services as a whole (software multiple-deliverable arrangements), software and software-related elements are accounted for in accordance with software revenue recognition guidance. Software-related elements include software products and services for which a software deliverable is essential to its functionality. Tangible products containing software components and non-software components that function together to deliver the tangible product s essential functionality are not within the scope of software revenue recognition guidance and are accounted for based on other applicable revenue recognition guidance.  
     
  A software multiple-deliverable arrangement is separated into more than one unit of accounting if all of the following criteria are met:  
     
                   The functionality of the delivered element(s) is not dependent on the undelivered element(s); 
                   There is vendor-specific objective evidence (VSOE) of fair value of the undelivered element(s). VSOE of fair value is based on the price charged when the deliverable is sold separately by the company on a regular basis and not as part of the multiple-deliverable arrangement; and 
                   Delivery of the delivered element(s) represents the culmination of the earnings process for that element(s). 
     
  If any one of these criteria is not met, the arrangement is accounted for as one unit of accounting which would result in revenue being recognized ratably over the contract term or being deferred until the earlier of when such criteria are met or when the last undelivered element is delivered. If these criteria are met for each element and there is VSOE of fair value for all units of accounting in an arrangement, the arrangement consideration is allocated to the separate units of accounting based on each unit s relative VSOE of fair value. There may be cases, however, in which there is VSOE of fair value of the undelivered item(s) but no such evidence for the delivered item(s). In these cases, the residual method is used to allocate the arrangement consideration. Under the residual method, the amount of consideration allocated to the delivered item(s) equals the total arrangement consideration less the aggregate VSOE of fair value of the undelivered elements.  
     
  The company s multiple-deliverable arrangements may have a stand-alone software deliverable that is subject to the existing software revenue recognition guidance. The revenue for these multiple-deliverable arrangements is allocated to the software deliverable and the non-software deliverables based on the relative selling prices of all of the deliverables in the arrangement using the hierarchy: VSOE, third-party evidence (TPE) or best estimate of selling price (BESP). In circumstances where the company cannot determine VSOE or TPE of the selling price for all of the deliverables in the arrangement, including the software deliverable, BESP is used for the purpose of performing this allocation.  
     
   Financing   
     
  Financing income attributable to sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans is recognized on the accrual basis using the effective interest method. Operating lease income is recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.  
     
   Best Estimate of Selling Price   
     
  In certain instances, the company is not able to establish VSOE for all elements in a multiple-deliverable arrangement. When VSOE cannot be established, the company attempts to establish the selling price of each element based on TPE. TPE is determined based on competitor prices for similar deliverables when sold separately.  
     
  When the company is unable to establish selling price using VSOE or TPE, the company uses BESP in its allocation of arrangement consideration. The objective of BESP is to determine the price at which the company would transact a sale if the product or service were sold on a stand-alone basis. BESP may be used, for example, if a product is not sold on a stand-alone basis or when the company sells a new product, for which VSOE and TPE does not yet exist, in a multiple-deliverable arrangement prior to selling the new product on a stand-alone basis.  
     
  The company determines BESP by considering multiple factors including, but not limited to, overall market conditions, including geographic or regional specific factors, competitive positioning, competitor actions, internal costs, profit objectives and pricing practices. The determination of BESP is a formal process that includes review and approval by the company s management. In addition, the company regularly reviews VSOE and TPE for its products and services, in addition to BESP.  
     
   Services Costs   
     
  Recurring operating costs for services contracts, including costs related to bid and proposal activities, are recognized as incurred. For fixed-price design and build contracts, the costs of external  
     
 92   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  hardware and software accounted for under the POC method are deferred and recognized based on the labor costs incurred to date, as a percentage of the total estimated labor costs to fulfill the contract. Certain eligible, nonrecurring costs incurred in the initial phases of outsourcing contracts are deferred and subsequently amortized. These costs consist of transition and setup costs related to the installation of systems and processes and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the expected period of benefit, not to exceed the term of the contract. Additionally, fixed assets associated with outsourcing contracts are capitalized and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. If an asset is contract specific, then the depreciation period is the shorter of the useful life of the asset or the contract term. Amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements are deferred and amortized on a straight-line basis as a reduction of revenue over the expected period of benefit not to exceed the term of the contract. The company performs periodic reviews to assess the recoverability of deferred contract transition and setup costs. This review is done by comparing the estimated minimum remaining undiscounted cash flows of a contract to the unamortized contract costs. If such minimum undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the unamortized costs, an impairment loss is recognized.  
     
  Deferred services transition and setup costs were $2,072 million and $2,144 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization of deferred services transition and setup costs was estimated at December 31, 2016 to be $590 million in 2017, $515 million in 2018, $374 million in 2019, $248 million in 2020 and $344 million thereafter.  
     
  Deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets used in outsourcing arrangements were $160 million and $184 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Amortization of deferred amounts paid to clients in excess of the fair value of acquired assets is recorded as an offset of revenue and was estimated at December 31, 2016 to be $53 million in 2017, $46 million in 2018, $28 million in 2019, $20 million in 2020 and $13 million thereafter. In situations in which an outsourcing contract is terminated, the terms of the contract may require the client to reimburse the company for the recovery of unbilled accounts receivable, unamortized deferred costs incurred to purchase specific assets utilized in the delivery of services and to pay any additional costs incurred by the company to transition the services.  
     
   Software Costs   
     
  Costs that are related to the conceptual formulation and design of licensed software programs are expensed as incurred to research, development and engineering expense; costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset. Capitalized amounts are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in software cost within cost of sales. The company performs periodic reviews to ensure that unamortized program costs remain recoverable from future revenue. Costs to support or service licensed programs are charged to software cost within cost of sales as incurred.  
     
  The company capitalizes certain costs that are incurred to purchase or to create and implement internal-use software programs, including software coding, installation, testing and certain data conversions. These capitalized costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to three years and are recorded in selling, general and administrative expense.  
     
   Product Warranties   
     
  The company offers warranties for its hardware products that generally range up to three years, with the majority being either one or three years. Estimated costs for warranty terms standard to the deliverable are recognized when revenue is recorded for the related deliverable. The company estimates its warranty costs standard to the deliverable based on historical warranty claim experience and estimates of future spending, and applies this estimate to the revenue stream for products under warranty. Estimated future costs for warranties applicable to revenue recognized in the current period are charged to cost of sales. The warranty liability is reviewed quarterly to verify that it properly reflects the remaining obligation based on the anticipated expenditures over the balance of the obligation period. Adjustments are made when actual warranty claim experience differs from estimates. Costs from fixed-price support or maintenance contracts, including extended warranty contracts, are recognized as incurred.  
     
  Revenue from extended warranty contracts is initially recorded as deferred income and subsequently recognized on a straight-line basis over the delivery period. Changes in deferred income for extended warranty contracts, and in the warranty liability for standard warranties, which are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, are presented in the following tables:  
     
   Standard Warranty Liability   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Extended Warranty Liability (Deferred Income)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Other consists primarily of foreign currency translation adjustments.  
     
   Shipping and Handling   
     
  Costs related to shipping and handling are recognized as incurred and included in cost in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
 93   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Expense and Other Income   
     
   Selling, General and Administrative   
     
  Selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense is charged to income as incurred. Expenses of promoting and selling products and services are classified as selling expense and include such items as compensation, advertising, sales commissions and travel. General and administrative expense includes such items as compensation, legal costs, office supplies, non-income taxes, insurance and office rental. In addition, general and administrative expense includes other operating items such as an allowance for credit losses, workforce rebalancing charges for contractually obligated payments to employees terminated in the ongoing course of business, acquisition costs related to business combinations, amortization of certain intangible assets and environmental remediation costs.  
     
   Advertising and Promotional Expense   
     
  The company expenses advertising and promotional costs as incurred. Cooperative advertising reimbursements from vendors are recorded net of advertising and promotional expense in the period in which the related advertising and promotional expense is incurred. Advertising and promotional expense, which includes media, agency and promotional expense, was $1,327 million, $1,290 million and $1,307 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and is recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
   Research, Development and Engineering   
     
  Research, development and engineering (RD E) costs are expensed as incurred. Software costs that are incurred to produce the finished product after technological feasibility has been established are capitalized as an intangible asset.  
     
   Intellectual Property and Custom Development Income   
     
  The company licenses and sells the rights to certain of its intellectual property (IP) including internally developed patents, trade secrets and technological know-how. Certain IP transactions to third parties are licensing/royalty-based and others are transaction-based sales/other transfers. Income from licensing arrangements is recognized at the inception of the perpetual license term if all revenue recognition criteria have been met. Income from royalty-based fee arrangements is recognized over time or as the licensee sells future related products (i.e., variable royalty, based upon licensee s revenue). The company also enters into cross-licensing arrangements of patents, and income from these arrangements is recognized when earned. In addition, the company earns income from certain custom development projects for strategic technology partners and specific clients. The company records the income from these projects if the fee is not refundable, is not dependent upon the success of the project and when all revenue recognition have been met.  
     
   Other (Income) and Expense   
     
  Other (income) and expense includes interest income (other than from Global Financing external transactions), gains and losses on certain derivative instruments, gains and losses from securities and other investments, gains and losses from certain real estate transactions, foreign currency transaction gains and losses, gains and losses from the sale of businesses, other than reported as discontinued operations, and amounts related to accretion of asset retirement obligations.  
     
   Business Combinations and Intangible Assets Including Goodwill   
     
  The company accounts for business combinations using the acquisition method and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree are recorded at their acquisition date fair values. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets, including the amount assigned to identifiable intangible assets. The primary drivers that generate goodwill are the value of synergies between the acquired entities and the company and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualifies as a separately identifiable intangible asset. Goodwill recorded in an acquisition is assigned to applicable reporting units based on expected revenues. Identifiable intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their useful lives. Amortization of completed technology is recorded in Cost, and amortization of all other intangible assets is recorded in SG A expense. Acquisition-related costs, including advisory, legal, accounting, valuation and other costs, are expensed in the periods in which the costs are incurred. The results of operations of acquired businesses are included in the Consolidated Financial Statements from the acquisition date.  
     
   Impairment   
     
  Long-lived assets, other than goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. The impairment test is based on undiscounted cash flows and, if impaired, the asset is written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are tested at least annually, in the fourth quarter, for impairment and whenever changes in circumstances indicate an impairment may exist. Goodwill is tested at the reporting unit level which is the operating segment, or a business, which is one level below that operating segment (the  component  level) if discrete financial information is prepared and regularly reviewed by management at the segment level. Components are aggregated as a single reporting unit if they have similar economic characteristics.  
     
   Depreciation and Amortization   
     
  Property, plant and equipment are carried at cost and depreciated over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets are as follows: buildings, 30 to 50 years; building equipment, 10 to 20 years; land improvements, 20 years; plant, laboratory and office equipment, 2 to 20 years; and computer equipment, 1.5 to 5 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the related lease term, rarely exceeding 25 years.  
     
  Capitalized software costs incurred or acquired after technological feasibility has been established are amortized over periods ranging up to 3 years. Capitalized costs for internal-use software are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging up to 3 years. Other intangible assets are amortized over periods between 1 and 7 years.  
     
 94   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Environmental   
     
  The cost of internal environmental protection programs that are preventative in nature are expensed as incurred. When a cleanup program becomes likely, and it is probable that the company will incur cleanup costs and those costs can be reasonably estimated, the company accrues remediation costs for known environmental liabilities. The company s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts are recorded for environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable.  
     
   Asset Retirement Obligations   
     
  Asset retirement obligations (ARO) are legal obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets. These liabilities are initially recorded at fair value and the related asset retirement costs are capitalized by increasing the carrying amount of the related assets by the same amount as the liability. Asset retirement costs are subsequently depreciated over the useful lives of the related assets. Subsequent to initial recognition, the company records period-to-period changes in the ARO liability resulting from the passage of time in interest expense and revisions to either the timing or the amount of the original expected cash flows to the related assets.  
     
   Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans   
     
  The funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans and nonpension postretirement benefit plans (retirement-related benefit plans) is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation at December 31, the measurement date. For defined benefit pension plans, the benefit obligation is the projected benefit obligation (PBO), which represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. For the nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the benefit obligation is the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO), which represents the actuarial present value of postretirement benefits attributed to employee services already rendered. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of assets held in an irrevocable trust fund, held for the sole benefit of participants, which are invested by the trust fund. Overfunded plans, with the fair value of plan assets exceeding the benefit obligation, are aggregated and recorded as a prepaid pension asset equal to this excess. Underfunded plans, with the benefit obligation exceeding the fair value of plan assets, are aggregated and recorded as a retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligation equal to this excess.  
     
  The current portion of the retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations represents the actuarial present value of benefits payable in the next 12 months exceeding the fair value of plan assets, measured on a plan-by-plan basis. This obligation is recorded in compensation and benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  Net periodic pension and nonpension postretirement benefit cost/(income) is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs/(credits) and (gains)/losses previously recognized as a component of OCI and amortization of the net transition asset remaining in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) (AOCI). Service cost represents the actuarial present value of participant benefits earned in the current year. Interest cost represents the time value of money cost associated with the passage of time. Certain events, such as changes in the employee base, plan amendments and changes in actuarial assumptions, result in a change in the benefit obligation and the corresponding change in OCI. The result of these events is amortized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) over the service lives or life expectancy of the participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed thresholds which are based upon the benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. Net periodic cost/(income) is recorded in Cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective functions.  
     
  (Gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) not recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings as they arise are recognized as a component of OCI in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. Those (gains)/losses and prior service costs/(credits) are subsequently recognized as a component of net periodic cost/(income) pursuant to the recognition and amortization provisions of applicable accounting guidance. (Gains)/losses arise as a result of differences between actual experience and assumptions or as a result of changes in actuarial assumptions. Prior service costs/(credits) represent the cost of benefit changes attributable to prior service granted in plan amendments.  
     
  The measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic cost/(income) is based on estimates and assumptions approved by the company s management. These valuations reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates.  
     
   Defined Contribution Plans   
     
  The company s contribution for defined contribution plans is recorded when the employee renders service to the company. The charge is recorded in Cost, SG A and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective functions.  
     
   Stock-Based Compensation   
     
  Stock-based compensation represents the cost related to stock-based awards granted to employees. The company measures stock-based compensation cost at the grant date, based on the estimated fair value of the award and recognizes the cost on a straight-line basis (net of estimated forfeitures) over the employee requisite service period. The company grants its employees Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs) and Performance Share Units (PSUs) and periodically grants stock options. RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. The fair value of the awards is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents. The company estimates the fair value of stock options using a Black-Scholes  
     
 95   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  valuation model. Stock-based compensation cost is recorded in Cost, SG A, and RD E in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the employees  respective functions.  
     
  The company records deferred tax assets for awards that result in deductions on the company s income tax returns, based on the amount of compensation cost recognized and the statutory tax rate in the jurisdiction in which it will receive a deduction. Differences between the deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes and the actual tax deduction reported on the income tax return are recorded in additional paid-in capital (if the tax deduction exceeds the deferred tax asset) or in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings (if the deferred tax asset exceeds the tax deduction and no additional paid-in capital exists from previous awards).  
     
   Income Taxes   
     
  Income tax expense is based on reported income before income taxes. Deferred income taxes reflect the tax effect of temporary differences between asset and liability amounts that are recognized for financial reporting purposes and the amounts that are recognized for income tax purposes. These deferred taxes are measured by applying currently enacted tax laws. Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that will more likely than not be realized. In assessing the need for a valuation allowance, management considers all available evidence for each jurisdiction including past operating results, estimates of future taxable income and the feasibility of ongoing tax planning strategies. When the company changes its determination as to the amount of deferred tax assets that can be realized, the valuation allowance is adjusted with a corresponding impact to income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made.  
     
  The company recognizes tax liabilities when, despite the company s belief that its tax return positions are supportable, the company believes that certain positions may not be fully sustained upon review by tax authorities. Benefits from tax positions are measured at the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon settlement. The current portion of tax liabilities is included in taxes and the noncurrent portion of tax liabilities is included in other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. To the extent that new information becomes available which causes the company to change its judgment regarding the adequacy of existing tax liabilities, such changes to tax liabilities will impact income tax expense in the period in which such determination is made. Interest and penalties, if any, related to accrued liabilities for potential tax assessments are included in income tax expense.  
     
   Translation of Non-U.S. Currency Amounts   
     
  Assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries that have a local functional currency are translated to United States (U.S.) dollars at year-end exchange rates. Translation adjustments are recorded in OCI. Income and expense items are translated at weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.  
     
  Inventories, property, plant and equipment net and other non-monetary assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries and branches that operate in U.S. dollars are translated at the approximate exchange rates prevailing when the company acquired the assets or liabilities. All other assets and liabilities denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars are translated at year-end exchange rates with the transaction gain or loss recognized in other (income) and expense. Income and expense items are translated at the weighted-average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. These translation gains and losses are included in net income for the period in which exchange rates change.  
     
   Derivative Financial Instruments   
     
  Derivatives are recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at fair value and are reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets, investments and sundry assets, other accrued expenses and liabilities or other liabilities. Classification of each derivative as current or noncurrent is based upon whether the maturity of the instrument is less than or greater than 12 months. To qualify for hedge accounting, the company requires that the instruments be effective in reducing the risk exposure that they are designated to hedge. For instruments that hedge cash flows, hedge designation criteria also require that it be probable that the underlying transaction will occur. Instruments that meet established accounting criteria are formally designated as hedges. These criteria demonstrate that the derivative is expected to be highly effective at offsetting changes in fair value or cash flows of the underlying exposure both at inception of the hedging relationship and on an ongoing basis. The method of assessing hedge effectiveness and measuring hedge ineffectiveness is formally documented at hedge inception. The company assesses hedge effectiveness and measures hedge ineffectiveness at least quarterly throughout the designated hedge period.  
     
  Where the company applies hedge accounting, the company designates each derivative as a hedge of: (1) the fair value of a recognized financial asset or liability, or of an unrecognized firm commitment (fair value hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); (2) the variability of anticipated cash flows of a forecasted transaction, or the cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized financial asset or liability (cash flow hedge attributable to interest rate or foreign currency risk); or (3) a hedge of a long-term investment (net investment hedge) in a foreign operation. In addition, the company may enter into derivative contracts that economically hedge certain of its risks, even though hedge accounting does not apply or the company elects not to apply hedge accounting. In these cases, there exists a natural hedging relationship in which changes in the fair value of the derivative, which are recognized currently in net income, act as an economic offset to changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item(s).  
     
  Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a fair value hedge, along with offsetting changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged exposure, are recorded in earnings each period. For hedges of interest rate risk, the fair value adjustments are recorded as adjustments to interest expense and cost of financing in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. For hedges of currency risk associated with recorded financial assets or liabilities, derivative fair value adjustments are recognized in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded, net of applicable taxes, in OCI, in the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income. When net income is affected by the variability of the underlying cash flow, the applicable offsetting amount of the gain or loss from the derivative that is deferred in AOCI is released to net income and reported in interest expense, cost, SG A expense or other (income) and expense in the  
     
 96   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Consolidated Statement of Earnings based on the nature of the underlying cash flow hedged. Effectiveness for net investment hedging derivatives is measured on a spot-to-spot basis. The effective portion of changes in the fair value of net investment hedging derivatives and other non-derivative financial instruments designated as net investment hedges are recorded as foreign currency translation adjustments in AOCI. Changes in the fair value of the portion of a net investment hedging derivative excluded from the effectiveness assessment are recorded in interest expense. If the underlying hedged item in a fair value hedge ceases to exist, all changes in the fair value of the derivative are included in net income each period until the instrument matures. When the derivative transaction ceases to exist, a hedged asset or liability is no longer adjusted for changes in its fair value except as required under other relevant accounting standards.  
     
  Derivatives that are not designated as hedges, as well as changes in the fair value of derivatives that do not effectively offset changes in the fair value of the underlying hedged item throughout the designated hedge period (collectively,  ineffectiveness ), are recorded in earnings for each period and are primarily reported in other (income) and expense. When a cash flow hedging relationship is discontinued, the net gain or loss in AOCI must generally remain in AOCI until the item that was hedged affects earnings. However, when it is probable that a forecasted transaction will not occur by the end of the originally specified time period or within an additional two-month period thereafter, the net gain or loss in AOCI must be reclassified into earnings immediately.  
     
  The company reports cash flows arising from derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or cash flow hedges consistent with the classification of cash flows from the underlying hedged items that these derivatives are hedging. Accordingly, the cash flows associated with derivatives designated as fair value or cash flow hedges are classified in cash flows from operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Cash flows from derivatives designated as net investment hedges and derivatives that do not qualify as hedges are reported in cash flows from investing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For currency swaps designated as hedges of foreign currency denominated debt (included in the company s debt risk management program as addressed in note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 110 through 114), cash flows directly associated with the settlement of the principal element of these swaps are reported in payments to settle debt in cash flows from financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
   Financial Instruments   
     
  In determining the fair value of its financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and assumptions that are based on market conditions and risks existing at each balance sheet date. See note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 109 to 110 for further information. All methods of assessing fair value result in a general approximation of value, and such value may never actually be realized.  
     
   Fair Value Measurement   
     
  Accounting guidance defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Under this guidance, the company is required to classify certain assets and liabilities based on the following fair value hierarchy:  
     
                   Level 1 Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that can be accessed at the measurement date; 
     
                   Level 2 Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and 
     
                   Level 3 Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. 
     
  The guidance requires the use of observable market data if such data is available without undue cost and effort.  
     
  When available, the company uses unadjusted quoted market prices in active markets to measure the fair value and classifies such items within Level 1. If quoted market prices are not available, fair value is based upon internally developed models that use current market-based or independently sourced market parameters such as interest rates and currency rates. Items valued using internally generated models are classified according to the lowest level input or value driver that is significant to the valuation.  
     
  The determination of fair value considers various factors including interest rate yield curves and time value underlying the financial instruments. For derivatives and debt securities, the company uses a discounted cash flow analysis using discount rates commensurate with the duration of the instrument.  
     
  In determining the fair value of financial instruments, the company considers certain market valuation adjustments to the  base valuations  calculated using the methodologies described below for several parameters that market participants would consider in determining fair value:  
     
                   Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to financial instruments, taking into account the actual credit risk of a counterparty as observed in the credit default swap market to determine the true fair value of such an instrument. 
     
                   Credit risk adjustments are applied to reflect the company s own credit risk when valuing all liabilities measured at fair value. The methodology is consistent with that applied in developing counterparty credit risk adjustments, but incorporates the company s own credit risk as observed in the credit default swap market. 
     
  As an example, the fair value of derivatives is derived utilizing a discounted cash flow model that uses observable market inputs such as known notional value amounts, yield curves, spot and forward exchange rates as well as discount rates. These inputs relate to liquid, heavily traded currencies with active markets which are available for the full term of the derivative.  
     
 97   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Certain financial assets are measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis. These assets include equity method investments that are recognized at fair value at the measurement date to the extent that they are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. Certain assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis can be subject to nonrecurring fair value measurements. These assets include available-for-sale equity investments that are deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired. In the event of an other-than-temporary impairment of a financial instrument, fair value is measured using a model described above.  
     
  Accounting guidance permits the measurement of eligible financial assets, financial liabilities and firm commitments at fair value, on an instrument-by-instrument basis, that are otherwise not permitted to be accounted for at fair value under other accounting standards. This election is irrevocable. The company has not applied the fair value option to any eligible assets or liabilities.  
     
   Cash Equivalents   
     
  All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents.  
     
   Marketable Securities   
     
  Debt securities included in current assets represent securities that are expected to be realized in cash within one year of the balance sheet date. Long-term debt securities that are not expected to be realized in cash within one year and alliance equity securities are included in investments and sundry assets. Debt and marketable equity securities are considered available for sale and are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of applicable taxes, in OCI. The realized gains and losses for available-for-sale securities are included in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Realized gains and losses are calculated based on the specific identification method.  
     
  In determining whether an other-than-temporary decline in market value has occurred, the company considers the duration that, and extent to which, the fair value of the investment is below its cost, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer or underlying collateral of a security; and the company s intent and ability to retain the security in order to allow for an anticipated recovery in fair value. Other-than-temporary declines in fair value from amortized cost for available-for-sale equity and debt securities that the company intends to sell or would more likely than not be required to sell before the expected recovery of the amortized cost basis are charged to other (income) and expense in the period in which the loss occurs. For debt securities that the company has no intent to sell and believes that it more likely than not will not be required to sell prior to recovery, only the credit loss component of the impairment is recognized in other (income) and expense, while the remaining loss is recognized in OCI. The credit loss component recognized in other (income) and expense is identified as the amount of the principal cash flows not expected to be received over the remaining term of the debt security as projected using the company s cash flow projections.  
     
   Inventories   
     
  Raw materials, work in process and finished goods are stated at the lower of average cost or market. Cash flows related to the sale of inventories are reflected in net cash provided by operating activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
   Allowance for Credit Losses   
     
  Receivables are recorded concurrent with billing and shipment of a product and/or delivery of a service to customers. A reasonable estimate of probable net losses on the value of customer receivables is recognized by establishing an allowance for credit losses.  
     
   Notes and Accounts Receivable Trade   
     
  An allowance for uncollectible trade receivables is estimated based on a combination of write-off history, aging analysis and any specific, known troubled accounts.  
     
   Financing Receivables   
     
  Financing receivables include sales-type leases, direct financing leases and loans. Leases are accounted for in accordance with lease accounting standards. Loan receivables are financial assets recorded at amortized cost which approximates fair value. The company determines its allowances for credit losses on financing receivables based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables. The company further segments the portfolio into two classes: major markets and growth markets.  
     
  When calculating the allowances, the company considers its ability to mitigate a potential loss by repossessing leased equipment and by considering the current fair market value of any other collateral. The value of the equipment is the net realizable value. The allowance for credit losses for capital leases, installment sales and customer loans includes an assessment of the entire balance of the capital lease or loan, including amounts not yet due. The methodologies that the company uses to calculate its receivables reserves, which are applied consistently to its different portfolios, are as follows:  
     
   Individually Evaluated   The company reviews all financing receivables considered at risk on a quarterly basis. The review primarily consists of an analysis based upon current information available about the client, such as financial statements, news reports, published credit ratings, current market-implied credit analysis, as well as the current economic environment, collateral net of repossession cost and prior collection history. For loans that are collateral dependent, impairment is measured using the fair value of the collateral when foreclosure is probable. Using this information, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. 
     
 98   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Collectively Evaluated   The company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history. Factors that could result in actual receivable losses that are materially different from the estimated reserve include sharp changes in the economy, or a significant change in the economic health of a particular client that represents a concentration in the company s receivables portfolio. 
     
   Other Credit-Related Policies   
     
   Past Due   The company views receivables as past due when payment has not been received after 90 days, measured from the original billing date. 
     
   Non-Accrual   Certain receivables for which the company has recorded a specific reserve may also be placed on non-accrual status. Non-accrual assets are those receivables (impaired loans or nonperforming leases) with specific reserves and other accounts for which it is likely that the company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to original terms of the lease or loan agreement. Income recognition is discontinued on these receivables. Cash collections are first applied as a reduction to principal outstanding. Any cash received in excess of principal payments outstanding is recognized as interest income. Receivables may be removed from non-accrual status, if appropriate, based upon changes in client circumstances. 
     
   Impaired Loans   As stated above, the company evaluates all financing receivables considered at-risk, including loans, for impairment on a quarterly basis. The company considers any loan with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on non-accrual status as appropriate. Client loans are primarily for software and services and are unsecured. These loans are subjected to credit analysis to evaluate the associated risk and, when deemed necessary, actions are taken to mitigate risks in the loan agreements which include covenants to protect against credit deterioration during the life of the obligation. 
     
   Write Off   Receivable losses are charged against the allowance in the period in which the receivable is deemed uncollectible. Subsequent recoveries, if any, are credited to the allowance. Write-offs of receivables and associated reserves occur to the extent that the customer is no longer in operation and/or, there is no reasonable expectation of additional collections or repossession. The company s assessments factor in the history of collections and write-offs in specific countries and across the portfolio. 
     
   Estimated Residual Values of Lease Assets   
     
  The recorded residual values of lease assets are estimated at the inception of the lease to be the expected fair value of the assets at the end of the lease term. The company periodically reassesses the realizable value of its lease residual values. Any anticipated increases in specific future residual values are not recognized before realization through remarketing efforts. Anticipated decreases in specific future residual values that are considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized immediately upon identification and are recorded as an adjustment to the residual value estimate. For sales-type and direct-financing leases, this reduction lowers the recorded net investment and is recognized as a loss charged to financing income in the period in which the estimate is changed, as well as an adjustment to unearned income to reduce future-period financing income.  
     
   Common Stock   
     
  Common stock refers to the $.20 par value per share capital stock as designated in the company s Certificate of Incorporation. Treasury stock is accounted for using the cost method. When treasury stock is reissued, the value is computed and recorded using a weighted-average basis.  
     
   Earnings Per Share of Common Stock   
     
  Earnings per share (EPS) is computed using the two-class method. The two-class method determines EPS for each class of common stock and participating securities according to dividends and dividend equivalents and their respective participation rights in undistributed earnings. Basic EPS of common stock is computed by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS of common stock is computed on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the effect of dilutive potential common shares outstanding during the period using the treasury stock method. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock awards, convertible notes and stock options.  
     
   NOTE B. ACCOUNTING CHANGES   
     
   New Standards to be Implemented   
     
  In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued guidance which clarifies the definition of a business. The guidance provides a more robust framework to use in determining when a set of assets and activities acquired or sold is a business. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The guidance will be applied prospectively to any transactions occurring within the period of adoption. The company adopted the guidance effective January 1, 2017 and does not expect a material impact in the consolidated financial statements.  
     
  In October 2016, the FASB issued guidance which requires an entity to recognize the income tax consequences of intra-entity transfers of assets, other than inventory, at the time of transfer. Assets within the scope of the guidance include intellectual property and property, plant and equipment. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is permitted. The company adopted the guidance on January 1, 2017 using the required modified retrospective method. At adoption, $95 million and $47 million were reclassified from investments in sundry assets and prepaid and other current assets, respectively into retained earnings. Additionally, net deferred taxes of $244 million were established in deferred taxes in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, resulting in a cumulative-effect net credit to retained earnings of $102 million. In January 2017, the company had a transaction generating approximately $400 million to $500 million benefit to income tax expense, income from continuing operations and net income for the three months ended March 31, 2017. The ongoing impact of this guidance will be dependent on any transaction that is within its scope.  
     
 99   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In June 2016, the FASB issued guidance for credit impairment based on an expected loss model rather than an incurred loss model. The guidance requires the consideration of all available relevant information when estimating expected credit losses, including past events, current conditions and forecasts and their implications for expected credit losses. The guidance is effective January 1, 2020 with a one year early adoption permitted. The company is evaluating the impact of the new guidance.  
     
  In March 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for share-based payment transactions, including the income tax consequences, classification of awards as either equity or liabilities and classification in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The guidance was effective January 1, 2017 and upon transition did not have a material impact in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The ongoing impact of the guidance could result in increased volatility in the provision for income taxes and earnings per share in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, depending on the company s share price at exercise or vesting of share-based awards compared to grant date, however these impacts are not expected to be material. The guidance also requires cash payments on behalf of employees for shares directly withheld for taxes to be presented as financing outflows in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Prior to adoption, the company reported this activity as an operating cash outflow. For the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, the amounts for this activity that were recorded as operating cash outflows were $126 million and $248 million. This provision of the guidance requires retrospective application upon adoption on January 1, 2017.  
     
  In February 2016, the FASB issued guidance which changes the accounting for leases. The guidance requires lessees to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for most leases in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The guidance makes some changes to lessor accounting, including the elimination of the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance in the capital lease test, and overall aligns with the new revenue recognition guidance. The guidance also requires qualitative and quantitative disclosures to assess the amount, timing and uncertainty of cash flows arising from leases. The company will adopt the guidance as of the effective date of January 1, 2019. The company is currently evaluating the impact of the new guidance on its consolidated financial results and expects it will have a material impact on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. The company s operating lease commitments were $6.9 billion at December 31, 2016. In 2016, the use of third-party residual value guarantee insurance resulted in the company recognizing $220 million of sales-type lease revenue that would otherwise have been recognized over the lease period as operating lease revenue.  
     
  In January 2016, the FASB issued guidance which addresses aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. Certain equity investments will be measured at fair value with changes recognized in net income. The amendment also simplifies the impairment test of equity investments that lack readily determinable fair value. The guidance is effective January 1, 2018 and early adoption is not permitted except for limited provisions. The guidance is not expected to have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  The FASB issued guidance on the recognition of revenue from contracts with customers in May 2014 with amendments in 2015 and 2016. Revenue recognition will depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The guidance also requires disclosures regarding the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. The guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented, or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). The guidance was initially effective January 1, 2017 and early adoption was not permitted. The amended guidance provides for a one-year deferral of the effective date to January 1, 2018, with an option of applying the standard on the original effective date. The company will adopt the guidance on January 1, 2018 and apply the cumulative catch-up transition method.  
     
  Given the scope of work required to implement the recognition and disclosure requirements under the new standard, the company began its assessment process in 2014 and has since made significant progress, including identification of changes to policy, processes, systems and controls.  
     
  The company expects revenue recognition for its broad portfolio of hardware, software and services offerings to remain largely unchanged. However, the guidance is expected to change the timing of revenue recognition in certain areas, including accounting for certain software licenses. These impacts are not expected to be material. The company expects to continue to recognize revenue for term license (recurring license charge) software arrangements on a monthly basis over the period that the client is entitled to use the license due to the contractual terms in these arrangements.  
     
  Since the company currently expenses sales commissions as incurred, the requirement in the new standard to capitalize certain in-scope sales commissions is being evaluated to determine its potential impact in the consolidated financial statements in the year of adoption. There will be no impact to cash flows.  
     
  The company continues to assess all potential impacts of the guidance and given normal ongoing business dynamics, preliminary conclusions are subject to change.  
     
   Standards Implemented   
     
  In November 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in the statement of financial position. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. The guidance was a change in financial presentation only.  
     
 100   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In September 2015, the FASB issued guidance eliminating the requirement that an acquirer in a business combination account for a measurement-period adjustment retrospectively. Instead, an acquirer will recognize a measurement-period adjustment during the period in which the amount of the adjustment is determined. In addition, the portion of the amount recorded in current-period earnings by line item that would have been recorded in previous reporting periods if the adjustment to the provisional amounts had been recognized as of the acquisition date should be presented separately on the face of the income statement or disclosed in the notes. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In May 2015, the FASB issued guidance which removed the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. The amendments also removed the requirement to make certain disclosures for all investments that are eligible to be measured at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Rather, those disclosures are limited to investments for which the entity has elected to measure the fair value using that practical expedient. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016. The guidance was a change in disclosure only and did not have an impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If the arrangement includes a software license, then the customer should account for the software license consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses. If the arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a services contract. All software licenses recognized under this guidance will be accounted for consistent with other licenses of intangible assets. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 and the company adopted it on a prospective basis. The guidance did not have a material impact in the consolidated financial results.  
     
  In April 2015, the FASB issued guidance which requires debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability to be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The guidance was effective January 1, 2016 with early adoption permitted. The company adopted the guidance in the fourth quarter of 2015 on a retrospective basis. The company had debt issuance costs of $82 million and $74 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Debt issuance costs were previously included in investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
   NOTE C. ACQUISITIONS/DIVESTITURES   
     
   Acquisitions   
     
  Purchase price consideration for all acquisitions, as reflected in the tables in this note, was paid primarily in cash. All acquisitions are reported in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows net of acquired cash and cash equivalents.  
     
   2016   
     
  In 2016, the company completed fifteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $5,899 million.  
     
   The Weather Company (TWC)   On January 29, 2016, the company completed the acquisition of TWC s B2B, mobile and cloud-based Web-properties, weather.com, Weather Underground, The Weather Company brand and WSI, its global business-to-business brand, for cash consideration of $2,278 million. The cable television segment was not acquired by IBM, but is licensing weather forecast data and analytics from IBM under a long-term contract. TWC was a privately held business. Goodwill of $1,717 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that none of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 6.9 years. 
     
   Truven Health Analytics, Inc. (Truven)   On April 8, 2016, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Truven, a leading provider of healthcare analytics solutions, for cash consideration of $2,612 million, of which $200 million will be paid in July 2017. Truven has developed proprietary analytic methods and assembled analytic content assets, creating extensive national healthcare utilization, performance, quality and cost data. Truven was a privately held business. Goodwill of $1,933 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that approximately 15 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired is 6.9 years. 
     
   Other Acquisitions   The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of four businesses: in the first quarter: Ustream, Inc. (Ustream), a privately held business, and AT T s application and hosting services business; in the third quarter, G4S s cash solutions business; and in the fourth quarter, Sanovi Technologies Private Limited (Sanovi), a privately held business. Global Business Services (GBS) completed acquisitions of six privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Resource/Ammirati, ecx International AG (ecx.io) and Optevia Limited (Optevia); in the second quarter, Aperto AG (Aperto) and Bluewolf Group, LLC (Bluewolf); and in the fourth quarter, Fluid, Inc. s Expert Personal Shopper (XPS) business. The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of three privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Resilient Systems, Inc. (Resilient) and EZ Legacy, Ltd. (EZSource); and in the fourth quarter, Promontory Financial Group, LLC (Promontory). 
     
 101   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Each acquisition is expected to enhance the company s portfolio of product and services capabilities. Ustream provides cloud-based video streaming to enterprises and broadcasters. The acquisition of AT T s application and hosting services business strengthens the company s cloud portfolio. The acquisition of G4S s cash solutions business brings together the engineering skills of G4S with the company s analytics and remote technology capabilities to expand delivery solutions. Sanovi provides hybrid cloud recovery, cloud migration and business continuity software for enterprise data centers and cloud infrastructure. Resource/Ammirati is a leading U.S. based digital marketing and creative agency, addressing the rising demand from businesses seeking to reinvent themselves for the digital economy. Ecx.io enhances GBS  IBM Interactive Experience (IBM iX) with new digital marketing, commerce and platform skills to accelerate clients  digital transformations. Optevia is a Software-as-a Service systems integrator specializing in CRM solutions for public sector organizations. Aperto also joined IBM iX, supporting the company s growth in Europe, with expertise in digital strategy projects, including website and application development. Bluewolf extends the company s analytics, experience design and industry consulting leadership with one of the world s leading Salesforce consulting practices to deliver differentiated, consumer-grade experiences via the cloud. Fluid, Inc. s Expert Personal Shopper business extends the company s portfolio of SaaS offerings and services, helping clients conduct commerce and engage with their customers. Resilient, a provider of incident response solutions, automates and orchestrates the many processes needed when dealing with cyber incidents from breaches to lost devices. EZSource helps developers quickly and easily understand and change mainframe code based on data displayed through dashboards and other visualizations. Promontory, a global market-leading risk management and regulatory compliance consulting firm, helps address clients  escalating regulations and risk management requirements.  
     
  All of these Other Acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses.  
     
  The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2016.  
     
   2016 Acquisitions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable.  
  *               Bargain purchase gain relating to AT T s application and hosting services business was recognized in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings in the three months ended March 31, 2016. 
     
  The acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations using the acquisition method, and accordingly, the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquired entity were recorded at their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The primary items that generated the goodwill are the value of the synergies between the acquired businesses and IBM and the acquired assembled workforce, neither of which qualify as an amortizable intangible asset.  
     
  For the Other Acquisitions, the overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired is 6.3 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $119 million has been assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment, goodwill of $303 million has been assigned to the GBS segment and goodwill of $171 million has been assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment. It is expected that approximately 55 percent of the goodwill will be deductible for tax purposes.  
     
  On February 3, 2017, the company announced that it had acquired Agile 3 Solutions, LLC (Agile 3 Solutions), a privately held business based in San Francisco, California. Agile 3 Solutions is a developer of software used by the C-Suite and senior executives to better visualize, understand and manage risks associated with the protection of sensitive data. The business will be integrated within the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment. At the date of issuance of the financial statements, the initial purchase accounting was not complete for this acquisition.  
     
 102   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   2015   
     
  In 2015, the company completed fourteen acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $3,555 million.  
     
   Merge Healthcare, Inc. (Merge)   On October 13, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Merge, a publicly held business and a leading provider of medical image handling and processing, interoperability and clinical systems designed to advance healthcare quality and efficiency, for cash consideration of $1,036 million. Merge joined the company s Watson Health business unit, bolstering clients  ability to analyze and cross-reference medical images against billions of data points already in the Watson Health Cloud. Goodwill of $695 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions ($502 million) and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms ($193 million) segments. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 7.0 years. 
     
   Cleversafe, Inc. (Cleversafe)   On November 6, 2015, the company completed the acquisition of 100 percent of Cleversafe, a privately held business and a leading developer and manufacturer of object-based storage software and appliances, for cash consideration of $1,309 million. Cleversafe s integration into the company s Cloud business gives clients strategic data flexibility, simplified management and consistency with on-premise, cloud and hybrid cloud deployment options. Goodwill of $1,000 million was assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms ($590 million) and Systems ($410 million) segments. It was expected that none of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes. The overall weighted-average useful life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.9 years. 
     
   Other Acquisitions   The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of six privately held businesses: in the first quarter, AlchemyAI, Inc. (AlchemyAI) and Blekko, Inc. (Blekko); in the second quarter, Explorys, Inc. (Explorys) and Phytel, Inc. (Phytel); in the third quarter, Compose, Inc. (Compose); and in the fourth quarter, IRIS Analytics GmbH (IRIS Analytics). The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment completed acquisitions of four privately held businesses: in the second quarter, Blue Box Group, Inc. (Blue Box); in the third quarter, StrongLoop, Inc. (StrongLoop); and in the fourth quarter, Gravitant, Inc. (Gravitant) and Clearleap, Inc. (Clearleap). GBS completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses in the fourth quarter, Advanced Application Corporation (AAC) and Meteorix, LLC. (Meteorix). 
     
  AlchemyAI provides scalable cognitive computing application program interface services and computing applications. Blekko technology provides advanced Web-crawling, categorization and intelligent filtering. Explorys provides secure cloud-based solutions for clinical integration, at-risk population management, cost of care measurement and pay-for-performance. Phytel s SaaS-based population health management offerings help providers identify patients at risk for care gaps and engage the patient to begin appropriate preventative care. Blue Box provides hosted, managed, OpenStack-based production-grade private clouds for the enterprise and service provider markets. Compose offers auto-scaling, production-ready databases to help software development teams deploy data services efficiently. StrongLoop provides application development software that enables software developers to build applications using application programming interfaces. AAC engages in system integration application development, software support and services. AAC was an affiliate of JBCC Holdings Inc. and IBM Japan Ltd. The company acquired all the shares of AAC which became a wholly owned subsidiary as of October 1, 2015. Gravitant develops cloud-based software to enable organizations to easily plan, buy and manage, or  broker,  software and computing services from multiple suppliers across hybrid clouds. Meteorix offers consulting, deployment, integration and ongoing post-production services for Workday Financial Management and Human Capital Management applications. Clearleap provides cloud-based video services. IRIS Analytics provides technology and consultancy services to the payments industry to detect electronic payment fraud.  
     
  All of these Other Acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses with the exception of the AAC acquisition.  
     
  The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2015.  
     
   2015 Acquisitions   
       
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  
     
 103   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  For the  Other Acquisitions,  the overall weighted-average life of the identified intangible assets acquired was 6.4 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $518 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions segment, $303 million was assigned to the Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment, and $74 million was assigned to the GBS segment. It was expected that 7 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes.  
     
   2014   
     
  In 2014, the company completed six acquisitions at an aggregate cost of $608 million.  
     
  The Cognitive Solutions segment completed acquisitions of four privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Cloudant, Inc. (Cloudant); in the second quarter, Silverpop Systems, Inc. (Silverpop) and Cognea Group Pty LTD (Cognea); and in the third quarter, CrossIdeas s.p.a. (CrossIdeas). Technology Services   Cloud Platforms completed acquisitions of two privately held businesses: in the first quarter, Aspera, Inc. (Aspera); and in the third quarter, Lighthouse Security Group, LLC (Lighthouse).  
     
  Aspera s technology helps make cloud computing faster, more predictable and more cost effective for big data transfers such as enterprise storage, sharing virtual images or accessing the cloud for increased computing capacity. Cloudant extends the company s mobile and cloud platform by enabling developers to easily and quickly create next-generation mobile and Web-based applications. Silverpop is a provider of cloud-based capabilities that deliver personalized customer engagements in highly scalable environments. Cognea offers personalized artificial intelligence capabilities designed to serve as an intuitive interface between human users and data-driven information. CrossIdeas delivers next generation identity and access governance capabilities to help mitigate access risks and segregation of duty violations. Lighthouse provides cloud-enabled managed identity and access management solutions. All acquisitions were for 100 percent of the acquired businesses.  
     
  The following table reflects the purchase price related to these acquisitions and the resulting purchase price allocations as of December 31, 2014.  
     
   2014 Acquisitions   
     
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  
     
  The overall weighted-average life of the identified amortizable intangible assets acquired was 6.8 years. These identified intangible assets will be amortized on a straight-line basis over their useful lives. Goodwill of $442 million was assigned to the Cognitive Solutions ($311 million) and Technology Services   Cloud Platforms ($131 million) segments. It was expected that approximately 1 percent of the goodwill would be deductible for tax purposes.  
     
   Divestitures   
     
   Microelectronics   On October 20, 2014, IBM and GLOBALFOUNDRIES announced a definitive agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES would acquire the company s Microelectronics business, including existing semiconductor manufacturing assets and operations in East Fishkill, NY and Essex Junction, VT. The commercial OEM business acquired by GLOBALFOUNDRIES includes custom logic and specialty foundry, manufacturing and related operations. The transaction closed on July 1, 2015. 
     
  The transaction includes a 10-year exclusive manufacturing sourcing agreement in which GLOBALFOUNDRIES will provide server processor semiconductor technology for use in IBM Systems. The agreement provides the company with capacity and market-based pricing for current semiconductor nodes in production and progression to nodes in the future for both development and production needs. As part of the transaction, the company will provide GLOBALFOUNDRIES with certain transition services, including IT, supply chain, packaging and test services and lab services. The initial term for these transition services was one to three years, with GLOBALFOUNDRIES having the ability to renew.  
     
 104   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In the third quarter of 2014, the company recorded a pre-tax charge of $4.7 billion related to the sale of the Microelectronics disposal group, which was part of the Systems reportable segment. The pre-tax charge reflected the fair value less the estimated cost of selling the disposal group including an impairment to the semiconductor long-lived assets of $2.4 billion, $1.5 billion representing the cash consideration expected to be transferred to GLOBALFOUNDRIES and $0.8 billion of other related costs. Additional pre-tax charges of $116 million were recorded during 2015 related to the disposal, and pre-tax charges of less than $1 million were recorded during the year ended December 31, 2016. The cumulative pre-tax charge was $4.8 billion as of December 31, 2016. Any additional charges that may be recorded in future periods are expected to be immaterial.  
     
  Reporting the related assets and liabilities initially as held for sale at September 30, 2014 was based on meeting all of the criteria for such reporting in the applicable accounting guidance. While the company met certain criteria for held for sale reporting in prior periods, it did not meet all of the criteria until September 30, 2014. In addition, at September 30, 2014, the company concluded that the Microelectronics business met the criteria for discontinued operations reporting. The disposal group constituted a component under accounting guidance. The continuing cash inflows and outflows with the discontinued component are related to the manufacturing sourcing arrangement and the transition, packaging and test services. These cash flows are not direct cash flows as they are not significant and the company has no significant continuing involvement.  
     
  All assets and liabilities of the business, classified as held for sale at June 30, 2015, were transferred at closing. The company transferred $515 million of net cash to GLOBALFOUNDRIES in the third quarter of 2015. This amount included $750 million of cash consideration, adjusted by the amount of working capital due from GLOBALFOUNDRIES and other miscellaneous items. A second cash payment in the amount of $500 million was transferred in December 2016. The remaining cash consideration of $250 million is expected to be transferred in December 2017.  
     
  Summarized financial information for discontinued operations is shown below.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Industry Standard Server   On January 23, 2014, IBM and Lenovo Group Limited (Lenovo) announced a definitive agreement in which Lenovo would acquire the company s industry standard server portfolio (System x) for an adjusted purchase price of $2.1 billion, consisting of approximately $1.8 billion in cash, with the balance in Lenovo common stock. The stock represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in Lenovo. The company sold to Lenovo its System x, BladeCenter and Flex System blade servers and switches, x86-based Flex integrated systems, NeXtScale and iDataPlex servers and associated software, blade networking and maintenance operations. As of March 31, 2016, all Lenovo common stock was sold. 
     
  IBM and Lenovo entered into a strategic relationship which included a global OEM and reseller agreement for sales of IBM s industry-leading entry and midrange Storwize disk storage systems, tape storage systems, General Parallel File System software, SmartCloud Entry offering, and elements of IBM s system software, including Systems Director and Platform Computing solutions. Effective with the initial closing of the transaction, Lenovo assumed related customer service and maintenance operations. IBM will continue to provide maintenance delivery on Lenovo s behalf for an extended period of time. In addition, as part of the transaction agreement, the company is providing Lenovo with certain transition services, including IT and supply chain services. The initial term for these transition services ranged from less than one year to three years. Certain services could be renewed by Lenovo for an additional year.  
     
 105   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The initial closing was completed on October 1, 2014. A subsequent closing occurred in most other countries in which there was a large business footprint on December 31, 2014. The remaining countries closed on March 31, 2015. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of pre-tax gains of $63 million and $57 million in 2015 and 2016, respectively.  
     
  Overall, the company expects to recognize a total pre-tax gain on the sale of approximately $1.6 billion, which does not include associated costs related to transition and performance-based costs. Net of these charges, the pre-tax gain was approximately $1.3 billion, of which the cumulative gain recorded as of December 31, 2016 is $1.2 billion. The balance of the gain is expected to be recognized in 2019 upon conclusion of the maintenance agreement.  
     
   Customer Care   On September 10, 2013, IBM and SYNNEX announced a definitive agreement in which SYNNEX would acquire the company s worldwide customer care business process outsourcing services business for $501 million, consisting of approximately $430 million in cash, net of balance sheet adjustments, and $71 million in SYNNEX common stock, which represented less than 5 percent equity ownership in SYNNEX. As part of the transaction, SYNNEX entered into a multi-year agreement with the company, and Concentrix, SYNNEX s outsourcing business, became an IBM strategic business partner for global customer care business process outsourcing services. 
     
  The initial closing was completed on January 31, 2014, with subsequent closings occurring during 2014. For the full year of 2014, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $202 million related to this transaction.  
     
  In the second quarter of 2015, resolution of the final balance sheet adjustments was concluded. An assessment of the ongoing contractual terms of the transaction resulted in the recognition of a pre-tax gain of $7 million in 2015. Through December 31, 2016, the cumulative pre-tax gain attributed to this transaction was $213 million.  
     
   Others   In addition to those above, the company completed the following divestitures: 
     
  2016 In the first quarter of 2016, the company completed four software product-related divestitures. In the fourth quarter of 2016, the company completed the divestiture of one service-related offering. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $42 million related to these transactions in 2016.  
     
  2015 In the first quarter of 2015, the company completed two software product-related divestitures and in the second quarter, the company completed one software product-related divestiture and the divestiture of one Global Business Services  offering. In the fourth quarter of 2015, the company completed three software product-related divestitures. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $81 million related to these transactions in 2015.  
     
  2014 In the second quarter of 2014, the company completed one software product-related divestiture and the divestiture of one Global Business Services  offering. In the third quarter, the company completed four software product-related divestitures. In the fourth quarter of 2014, the company completed two software product-related divestitures. The financial terms related to these transactions were not material. Overall, the company recorded a pre-tax gain of $132 million related to these transactions in 2014.  
     
 106   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE D. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS   
     
   Fair Value Measurements   
     
   Financial Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis   
     
  The following tables present the company s financial assets and financial liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
  (2)            U.S. government securities reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
  (3)            Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
  (4)            The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 were $532 million and $594 million, respectively 
  (5)            The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2016 were $145 million and $61 million, respectively 
  (6)            Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value 
  (7)            If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions each would have been reduced by $116 million. 
     
 107   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            Included within cash and cash equivalents in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
  (2)            Commercial paper and certificates of deposit reported as marketable securities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
  (3)            Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position 
  (4)            The gross balances of derivative assets contained within prepaid expenses and other current assets, and investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015 were $292 million and $702 million, respectively 
  (5)            The gross balances of derivative liabilities contained within other accrued expenses and liabilities, and other liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2015 were $164 million and $22 million, respectively 
  (6)            Available-for-sale securities with carrying values that approximate fair value 
  (7)            If derivative exposures covered by a qualifying master netting agreement had been netted in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the total derivative asset and liability positions would have been reduced by $139 million each. 
     
  There were no transfers between Levels 1 and 2 for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
 108   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Financial Assets and Liabilities Not Measured at Fair Value   
     
   Short-Term Receivables and Payables   
     
  Notes and other accounts receivable and other investments are financial assets with carrying values that approximate fair value. Accounts payable, other accrued expenses and short-term debt (excluding the current portion of long-term debt) are financial liabilities with carrying values that approximate fair value. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
   Loans and Long-Term Receivables   
     
  Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows using current interest rates offered for similar loans to clients with similar credit ratings for the same remaining maturities. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the difference between the carrying amount and estimated fair value for loans and long-term receivables was immaterial. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, these financial instruments would be classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
   Long-Term Debt   
     
  Fair value of publicly traded long-term debt is based on quoted market prices for the identical liability when traded as an asset in an active market. For other long-term debt for which a quoted market price is not available, an expected present value technique that uses rates currently available to the company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities is used to estimate fair value. The carrying amount of long-term debt is $34,655 million and $33,428 million and the estimated fair value is $36,838 million and $35,220 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. If measured at fair value in the financial statements, long-term debt (including the current portion) would be classified as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
   Debt and Marketable Equity Securities   
     
  The company s cash equivalents and current debt securities are considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value, which is not materially different from carrying value, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  The following tables summarize the company s noncurrent debt and marketable equity securities which are also considered available-for-sale and recorded at fair value in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1) Included within investments and sundry assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position  
     
  During the fourth quarter of 2014, the company acquired equity securities in conjunction with the sale of the System x business which were classified as available-for-sale securities. Based on an evaluation of available evidence as of December 31, 2015, the company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment loss of $86 million resulting in an adjusted cost basis of $185 million as of December 31, 2015. In the first quarter of 2016, the company recorded a gross realized loss of $37 million (before taxes) related to the sale of all the outstanding shares. The loss on this sale was recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  
     
  Sales of debt and available-for-sale equity investments during the period were as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

109   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The after-tax net unrealized gains/(losses) on available-for-sale debt and equity securities that have been included in other comprehensive income/(loss) and the after-tax net (gains)/ losses reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) to net income were as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Includes pre-tax writedowns of $86 million in 2015. There were no writedowns in 2016. 
     
  The contractual maturities of substantially all available-for-sale debt securities are less than one year at December 31, 2016.  
     
   Derivative Financial Instruments   
     
  The company operates in multiple functional currencies and is a significant lender and borrower in the global markets. In the normal course of business, the company is exposed to the impact of interest rate changes and foreign currency fluctuations, and to a lesser extent equity and commodity price changes and client credit risk. The company limits these risks by following established risk management policies and procedures, including the use of derivatives, and, where cost effective, financing with debt in the currencies in which assets are denominated. For interest rate exposures, derivatives are used to better align rate movements between the interest rates associated with the company s lease and other financial assets and the interest rates associated with its financing debt. Derivatives are also used to manage the related cost of debt. For foreign currency exposures, derivatives are used to better manage the cash flow volatility arising from foreign exchange rate fluctuations.  
     
  As a result of the use of derivative instruments, the company is exposed to the risk that counterparties to derivative contracts will fail to meet their contractual obligations. To mitigate the counterparty credit risk, the company has a policy of only entering into contracts with carefully selected major financial institutions based upon their overall credit profile. The company s established policies and procedures for mitigating credit risk on principal transactions include reviewing and establishing limits for credit exposure and continually assessing the creditworthiness of counterparties. The right of set-off that exists under certain of these arrangements enables the legal entities of the company subject to the arrangement to net amounts due to and from the counterparty reducing the maximum loss from credit risk in the event of counterparty default.  
     
  The company is also a party to collateral security arrangements with most of its major derivative counterparties. These arrangements require the company to hold or post collateral (cash or U.S. Treasury securities) when the derivative fair values exceed contractually established thresholds. Posting thresholds can be fixed or can vary based on credit default swap pricing or credit ratings received from the major credit agencies. The aggregate fair value of all derivative instruments under these collateralized arrangements that were in a liability position at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $11 million and $28 million, respectively, for which no collateral was posted at either date. Full collateralization of these agreements would be required in the event that the company s credit rating falls below investment grade or if its credit default swap spread exceeds 250 basis points, as applicable, pursuant to the terms of the collateral security arrangements. The aggregate fair value of derivative instruments in asset positions as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $1,126 million and $994 million, respectively. This amount represents the maximum exposure to loss at the reporting date if the counterparties failed to perform as contracted. This exposure was reduced by $116 million and $139 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, of liabilities included in master netting arrangements with those counterparties. Additionally, at December 31, 2016 and 2015, this exposure was reduced by $141 million and $90 million of cash collateral and $35 million and $40 million of non-cash collateral in U.S. Treasury securities, respectively, received by the company. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the net exposure related to derivative assets recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $834 million and $726 million, respectively. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the net exposure related to derivative liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was $90 million and $47 million, respectively.  
     
  In the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the company does not offset derivative assets against liabilities in master netting arrangements nor does it offset receivables or payables recognized upon payment or receipt of cash collateral against the fair values of the related derivative instruments. No amount was recognized in other receivables at December 31, 2016 and 2015 for the right to reclaim cash collateral. The amount recognized in accounts payable for the obligation to return cash collateral was $141 million and $90 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The company restricts the use of cash collateral received to rehypothecation, and therefore reports it in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. No amount was rehypothecated at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  The company may employ derivative instruments to hedge the volatility in stockholders  equity resulting from changes in currency exchange rates of significant foreign subsidiaries of the company with respect to the U.S. dollar. These instruments, designated as net investment hedges, expose the company to liquidity risk as the derivatives have an immediate cash flow impact upon maturity which is not offset by a cash flow from the translation of the underlying hedged equity. The company monitors this cash loss potential on an ongoing basis, and may discontinue some of these hedging relationships by de-designating or terminating the derivative instrument in order to manage the liquidity risk. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company may utilize derivatives to offset the changes in the fair value of the de-designated instruments from the date of de-designation until maturity.  
     
  In its hedging programs, the company uses forward contracts, futures contracts, interest-rate swaps, cross-currency swaps and options depending upon the underlying exposure. The company is not a party to leveraged derivative instruments.  
     
  A brief description of the major hedging programs, categorized by underlying risk, follows.  
     
 110   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Interest Rate Risk   
     
   Fixed and Variable Rate Borrowings   
     
  The company issues debt in the global capital markets to fund its operations and financing business. Access to cost-effective financing can result in interest rate mismatches with the underlying assets. To manage these mismatches and to reduce overall interest cost, the company uses interest rate swaps to convert specific fixed-rate debt issuances into variable-rate debt (i.e., fair value hedges) and to convert specific variable-rate debt issuances into fixed-rate debt (i.e., cash flow hedges). At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of the company s interest rate swaps was $7.3 billion at both periods. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was approximately 6.2 years and 7.2 years, respectively.  
     
   Forecasted Debt Issuance   
     
  The company is exposed to interest rate volatility on future debt issuances. To manage this risk, the company may use forward-starting interest rate swaps to lock in the rate on the interest payments related to the forecasted debt issuance. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  At December 31, 2016 and 2015, net gains of less than $1 million (before taxes), respectively, were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss) in connection with cash flow hedges of the company s borrowings. Within these amounts, less than $1 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying transactions.  
     
   Foreign Exchange Risk   
     
   Long-Term Investments in Foreign Subsidiaries   
   (Net Investment)   
     
  A large portion of the company s foreign currency denominated debt portfolio is designated as a hedge of net investment in foreign subsidiaries to reduce the volatility in stockholders  equity caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates in the functional currency of major foreign subsidiaries with respect to the U.S. dollar. The company also uses cross-currency swaps and foreign exchange forward contracts for this risk management purpose. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments designated as net investment hedges was $6.7 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively. The weighted-average remaining maturity of these instruments at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was approximately 0.2 years at both periods.  
     
   Anticipated Royalties and Cost Transactions   
     
  The company s operations generate significant nonfunctional currency, third-party vendor payments and intercompany payments for royalties and goods and services among the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries and with the parent company. In anticipation of these foreign currency cash flows and in view of the volatility of the currency markets, the company selectively employs foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its currency risk. These forward contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is four years. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of forward contracts designated as cash flow hedges of forecasted royalty and cost transactions was $8.3 billion and $8.2 billion, respectively, with a weighted-average remaining maturity of 0.7 years at both periods.  
     
  At December 31, 2016 and 2015, in connection with cash flow hedges of anticipated royalties and cost transactions, the company recorded net gains of $462 million and net gains of $147 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts $397 million of gains and $121 million of gains, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying anticipated transactions.  
     
   Foreign Currency Denominated Borrowings   
     
  The company is exposed to exchange rate volatility on foreign currency denominated debt. To manage this risk, the company employs cross-currency swaps to convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity. These swaps are accounted for as cash flow hedges. The maximum length of time over which the company has hedged its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is approximately nine years. At December 31, 2016, the total notional amount of cross currency swaps designated as cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated debt was $1.4 billion. At December 31, 2015, no amounts were outstanding under this program.  
     
  At December 31, 2016 and 2015, in connection with cash flow hedges of foreign currency denominated borrowings, the company recorded net gains of $29 million and net losses of $2 million (before taxes), respectively, in accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss). Within these amounts, $27 million of gains and less than $1 million of losses, respectively, are expected to be reclassified to net income within the next 12 months, providing an offsetting economic impact against the underlying exposure.  
     
   Subsidiary Cash and Foreign Currency   
     
   Asset/Liability Management   
     
  The company uses its Global Treasury Centers to manage the cash of its subsidiaries. These centers principally use currency swaps to convert cash flows in a cost-effective manner. In addition, the company uses foreign exchange forward contracts to economically hedge, on a net basis, the foreign currency exposure of a portion of the company s nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. The terms of these forward and swap contracts are generally less than one year. The changes in the fair values of these contracts and of the underlying hedged exposures are generally offsetting and are recorded in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of foreign currency exposure was $12.7 billion and $11.7 billion, respectively.  
     
   Equity Risk Management   
     
  The company is exposed to market price changes in certain broad market indices and in the company s own stock primarily related to certain obligations to employees. Changes in the overall value of these employee compensation obligations are recorded in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Although not designated as accounting hedges, the company utilizes derivatives, including equity swaps and futures,  
     
 111   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  to economically hedge the exposures related to its employee compensation obligations. The derivatives are linked to the total return on certain broad market indices or the total return on the company s common stock, and are recorded at fair value with gains or losses also reported in SG A expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2016 and 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of these compensation obligations was $1.2 billion at both periods.  
     
   Other Risks   
     
  The company may hold warrants to purchase shares of common stock in connection with various investments that are deemed derivatives because they contain net share or net cash settlement provisions. The company records the changes in the fair value of these warrants in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any warrants qualifying as derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  The company is exposed to a potential loss if a client fails to pay amounts due under contractual terms. The company may utilize credit default swaps to economically hedge its credit exposures. The swaps are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  The company is exposed to market volatility on certain investment securities. The company may utilize options or forwards to economically hedge its market exposure. The derivatives are recorded at fair value with gains and losses reported in other (income) and expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. At December 31, 2016, the company did not have any derivative instruments relating to this program outstanding. At December 31, 2015, the total notional amount of derivative instruments in economic hedges of investment securities was less than $0.1 billion.  
     
  The following tables provide a quantitative summary of the derivative and non-derivative instrument-related risk management activity as of December 31, 2016 and 2015, as well as for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
     
   Fair Values of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position   
     
  ($ in millions)  

N/A Not applicable  
     
 112   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   The Effect of Derivative Instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings   
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

(1)                            The amount includes changes in clean fair values of the derivative instruments in fair value hedging relationships and the periodic accrual for coupon payments required under these derivative contracts.  
  (2)                            The amount includes basis adjustments to the carrying value of the hedged item recorded during the period and amortization of basis adjustments recorded on de-designated hedging relationships during the period.  
  (3)                            The amount of gain/(loss) recognized in income represents ineffectiveness on hedge relationships.  
  (4)                            Instruments in net investment hedges include derivative and non-derivative instruments.  
  (5)                            For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, fair value hedges resulted in a loss of $4 million, a loss of $2 million and a gain of $4 million in ineffectiveness, respectively.  
     
  N/A Not applicable  
     
 113   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  For the 12 months ending December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, there were no significant gains or losses recognized in earnings representing hedge ineffectiveness or excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness (for fair value hedges), or associated with an underlying exposure that did not or was not expected to occur (for cash flow hedges); nor are there any anticipated in the normal course of business.  
     
   NOTE E. INVENTORIES   
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE F. FINANCING RECEIVABLES   
     
  The following table presents financing receivables, net of allowances for credit losses, including residual values.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases relates principally to the company s systems products and are for terms ranging generally from two to six years. Net investment in sales-type and direct financing leases includes unguaranteed residual values of $585 million and $645 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, and is reflected net of unearned income of $513 million and $536 million, and net of the allowance for credit losses of $133 million and $213 million at those dates, respectively. Scheduled maturities of minimum lease payments outstanding at December 31, 2016, expressed as a percentage of the total, are approximately: 2017, 46 percent; 2018, 29 percent; 2019, 16 percent; 2020, 6 percent; and 2021 and beyond, 2 percent.  
     
  Commercial financing receivables, net of allowance for credit losses of $28 million and $19 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, relate primarily to inventory and accounts receivable financing for dealers and remarketers of IBM and OEM products. Payment terms for inventory and accounts receivable financing generally range from 30 to 90 days.  
     
  Client loan and installment payment receivables (loans), net of allowance for credit losses of $276 million and $377 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, are loans that are provided primarily to clients to finance the purchase of hardware, software and services. Payment terms on these financing arrangements are generally for terms up to seven years.  
     
  Client loan and installment payment financing contracts are priced independently at competitive market rates. The company has a history of enforcing these financing agreements.  
     
  The allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2016 reflects a write-off in the fourth quarter of $188 million of previously reserved customer accounts as a result of recent experience and history across the portfolio, particularly in China. Of this total, $41 million was in major markets and $147 million in growth markets and $73 million and $115 million was in lease receivables and loan receivables, respectively.  
     
  The company utilizes certain of its financing receivables as collateral for nonrecourse borrowings. Financing receivables pledged as collateral for borrowings were $689 million and $545 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. These borrowings are included in note J,  Borrowings,  on pages 120 to 122.  
     
  The company did not have any financing receivables held for sale as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
   Financing Receivables by Portfolio Segment   
     
  The following tables present financing receivables on a gross basis, excluding the allowance for credit losses and residual value, by portfolio segment and by class, excluding current commercial financing receivables and other miscellaneous current financing receivables at December 31, 2016 and 2015. The company determines its allowance for credit losses based on two portfolio segments: lease receivables and loan receivables, and further segments the portfolio into two classes: major markets and growth markets.  
     
 114   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

When determining the allowances, financing receivables are evaluated either on an individual or a collective basis. For individually evaluated receivables, the company determines the expected cash flow for the receivable and calculates an estimate of the potential loss and the probability of loss. For those accounts in which the loss is probable, the company records a specific reserve. In addition, the company records an unallocated reserve that is calculated by applying a reserve rate to its different portfolios, excluding accounts that have been specifically reserved. This reserve rate is based upon credit rating, probability of default, term, characteristics (lease/loan) and loss history.  
     
 115   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Financing Receivables on Non-Accrual Status   
     
  The following table presents the recorded investment in financing receivables which were on non-accrual status at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Impaired Loans   
     
  The company considers any loan with an individually evaluated reserve as an impaired loan. Depending on the level of impairment, loans will also be placed on a non-accrual status. The following tables present impaired client loan receivables at December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

Credit Quality Indicators   
     
  The company s credit quality indicators, which are based on rating agency data, publicly available information and information provided by customers, are reviewed periodically based on the relative level of risk. The resulting indicators are a numerical rating system that maps to Moody s Investors Service credit ratings as shown below. The company uses information provided by Moody s, where available, as one of many inputs in its determination of customer credit rating.  
     
  The tables present the net recorded investment for each class of receivables, by credit quality indicator, at December 31, 2016 and 2015. Receivables with a credit quality indicator ranging from Aaa to Baa3 are considered investment grade. All others are considered non-investment grade. The credit quality indicators do not reflect mitigation actions that the company may take to transfer credit risk to third parties.  
     
   Lease Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

116   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Loan Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

At December 31, 2016, the industries which made up Global Financing s receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (34 percent), Government (14 percent), Manufacturing (13 percent), Services (12 percent), Retail (8 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent).  
     
   Lease Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

* Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation  
     
   Loan Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

* Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation  
     
  At December 31, 2015, the industries which made up Global Financing s receivables portfolio consisted of: Financial (36 percent), Manufacturing (14 percent), Government (11 percent), Services (11 percent), Retail (9 percent), Communications (7 percent), Healthcare (6 percent) and Other (6 percent).  
     
 117   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Past Due Financing Receivables   
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1) Only the portion of a financing receivable which is greater than 90 days past due, excluding amounts that are fully reserved.  
  (2) At a contract level, which includes total billed and unbilled amounts for aged financing receivables greater than 90 days  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1) Only the portion of a financing receivable which is greater than 90 days past due, excluding amounts that are fully reserved.  
  (2) At a contract level, which includes total billed and unbilled amounts for aged financing receivables greater than 90 days  
  *   Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation  
     
   Troubled Debt Restructurings   
     
  The company assessed all restructurings that occurred on or after January 1, 2015 and determined that there were no significant troubled debt restructurings for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
   NOTE G. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT   
     
  ($ in millions)  

In 2016, the company recorded a pre-tax impairment charge related to certain property, plant and equipment of $215 million. The remaining fair value of these assets is not material. There were no material pre-tax impairment charges related to property, plant and equipment in 2015.  
     
 118   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE H. INVESTMENTS AND SUNDRY ASSETS   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Deferred transition and setup costs and other deferred arrangements are related to services client arrangements. Refer to note A,  Significant Accounting Policies,  on page 93 for additional information. 
     
   NOTE I. INTANGIBLE ASSETS INCLUDING GOODWILL   
     
   Intangible Assets   
     
  The following table details the company s intangible asset balances by major asset class.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. 
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Other intangibles are primarily acquired proprietary and nonproprietary business processes, methodologies and systems. 
     
  The net carrying amount of intangible assets increased $1,201 million during the year ended December 31, 2016, primarily due to intangible asset additions resulting from acquisitions, partially offset by amortization. There was no impairment of intangible assets recorded in 2016 and 2015. The aggregate intangible amortization expense was $1,544 million and $1,193 million for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In addition, in 2016 and 2015, respectively, the company retired $817 million and $1,809 million of fully amortized intangible assets, impacting both the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization by this amount.  
     
  The amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years relating to intangible assets currently recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is estimated to be the following at December 31, 2016:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

119   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Goodwill   
     
  As described in note T,  Segment Information,  the company changed its reportable segments in January 2016. Goodwill was assigned to the new reportable segments on a fair value allocation basis. The changes in the goodwill balances by reportable segment, for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, are as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

* Primarily driven by foreign currency translation  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Primarily driven by foreign currency translation 
     
  There were no goodwill impairment losses recorded during the full year of 2016 or 2015 and the company has no accumulated impairment losses.  
     
  Purchase price adjustments recorded in 2016 and 2015 were related to acquisitions that were completed on or prior to September 30, 2016 or December 31, 2014, respectively, and were still subject to the measurement period that ends at the earlier of 12 months from the acquisition date or when information becomes available. Net purchase price adjustments of $7 million were recorded during 2016 with the primary drivers being deferred tax assets, accounts receivable, deferred income, inventory and other current liabilities.  
     
   NOTE J. BORROWINGS   
     
   Short-Term Debt   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The weighted-average interest rate for commercial paper at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was 0.7 percent and 0.4 percent, respectively. The weighted-average interest rates for short-term loans were 9.5 percent and 5.2 percent at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
 120   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Long-Term Debt    
       
   Pre-Swap Borrowing   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             The portion of the company s fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as an amount equal to the sum of the debt s carrying value plus a fair value adjustment representing changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligations attributable to movements in benchmark interest rates. 
     
  There are no debt securities issued and outstanding by IBM International Group Capital LLC, which is an indirect, 100 percent owned finance subsidiary of International Business Machines Corporation, the parent. Any debt securities issued by IBM International Group Capital LLC, would be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by the parent.  
     
  The company s indenture governing its debt securities and its various credit facilities each contain significant covenants which obligate the company to promptly pay principal and interest, limit the aggregate amount of secured indebtedness and sale and leaseback transactions to 10 percent of the company s consolidated net tangible assets, and restrict the company s ability to merge or consolidate unless certain conditions are met. The credit facilities also include a covenant on the company s consolidated net interest expense ratio, which cannot be less than 2.20 to 1.0, as well as a cross default provision with respect to other defaulted indebtedness of at least $500 million.  
     
  The company is in compliance with all of its significant debt covenants and provides periodic certifications to its lenders. The failure to comply with its debt covenants could constitute an event of default with respect to the debt to which such provisions apply. If certain events of default were to occur, the principal and interest on the debt to which such event of default applied would become immediately due and payable.  
     
 121   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Post-Swap Borrowing (Long-Term Debt, Including Current Portion)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Includes $7,338 million in 2016 and 2015 of notional interest rate swaps that effectively convert fixed-rate long-term debt into floating-rate debt (See note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 110 through 114.) 
     
  Pre-swap annual contractual maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2016, are as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Interest on Debt   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Refer to the related discussion on page 152 in note T,  Segment Information,  for total interest expense of the Global Financing segment. See note D,  Financial Instruments,  on pages 110 through 114 for a discussion of the use of currency and interest rate swaps in the company s debt risk management program.  
     
   Lines of Credit   
     
  In 2016, the company increased the size of its five-year Credit Agreement (the  Credit Agreement ) to $10.25 billion and extended the term by one year to November 10, 2021. The total expense recorded by the company related to this global credit facility was $5.5 million in 2016, $5.3 million in 2015 and $5.4 million in 2014. The Credit Agreement permits the company and its Subsidiary Borrowers to borrow up to $10.25 billion on a revolving basis. Borrowings of the Subsidiary Borrowers will be unconditionally backed by the company. The company may also, upon the agreement of either existing lenders, or of the additional banks not currently party to the Credit Agreement, increase the commitments under the Credit Agreement up to an additional $1.75 billion. Subject to certain terms of the Credit Agreement, the company and Subsidiary Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow amounts under the Credit Agreement at any time during the Credit Agreement. Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement will be based on prevailing market interest rates, as further described in the Credit Agreement. The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties, covenants, events of default, and indemnification provisions. The company believes that circumstances that might give rise to breach of these covenants or an event of default, as specified in the Credit Agreement, are remote. As of December 31, 2016, there were no borrowings by the company, or its subsidiaries, under the Credit Agreement.  
     
  The company also has other committed lines of credit in some of the geographies which are not significant in the aggregate. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country, depending on local market conditions.  
     
 122   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE K. OTHER LIABILITIES   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Primarily related to the divestiture of the Microelectronics business 
     
  In response to changing business needs, the company periodically takes workforce reduction actions to improve productivity, cost competitiveness and to rebalance skills. The noncurrent contractually obligated future payments associated with these activities are reflected in the workforce reductions caption in the previous table.  
     
  In addition, the company executed certain special restructuring-related actions prior to 2006. The previous table provides the noncurrent liabilities associated with these special actions. Current liabilities are included in other accrued expenses and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and were immaterial at December 31, 2016.  
     
  The noncurrent liabilities are workforce accruals related to terminated employees who are no longer working for the company who were granted annual payments to supplement their incomes in certain countries. Depending on the individual country s legal requirements, these required payments will continue until the former employee begins receiving pension benefits or passes away.  
     
  The company employs extensive internal environmental protection programs that primarily are preventive in nature. The company also participates in environmental assessments and cleanups at a number of locations, including operating facilities, previously owned facilities and Superfund sites. The company s maximum exposure for all environmental liabilities cannot be estimated and no amounts have been recorded for non-ARO environmental liabilities that are not probable or estimable. The total amounts accrued for non-ARO environmental liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, that do not reflect actual or anticipated insurance recoveries, were $272 million and $283 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. Estimated environmental costs are not expected to materially affect the consolidated financial position or consolidated results of the company s operations in future periods. However, estimates of future costs are subject to change due to protracted cleanup periods and changing environmental remediation regulations.  
     
  As of December 31, 2016, the company was unable to estimate the range of settlement dates and the related probabilities for certain asbestos remediation AROs. These conditional AROs are primarily related to the encapsulated structural fireproofing that is not subject to abatement unless the buildings are demolished and non-encapsulated asbestos that the company would remediate only if it performed major renovations of certain existing buildings. Because these conditional obligations have indeterminate settlement dates, the company could not develop a reasonable estimate of their fair values. The company will continue to assess its ability to estimate fair values at each future reporting date. The related liability will be recognized once sufficient additional information becomes available. The total amounts accrued for ARO liabilities, including amounts classified as current in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were $173 million and $166 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   NOTE L. EQUITY ACTIVITY   
     
  The authorized capital stock of IBM consists of 4,687,500,000 shares of common stock with a $.20 per share par value, of which 945,867,403 shares were outstanding at December 31, 2016 and 150,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a $.01 per share par value, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 2016.  
     
   Stock Repurchases   
     
  The Board of Directors authorizes the company to repurchase IBM common stock. The company repurchased 23,283,400 common shares at a cost of $3,455 million, 30,338,647 common shares at a cost of $4,701 million and 71,504,867 common shares at a cost of $13,395 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. These amounts reflect transactions executed through December 31 of each year. Actual cash disbursements for repurchased shares may differ due to varying settlement dates for these transactions. At December 31, 2016, $5,109 million of Board common stock repurchase authorization was available. The company plans to purchase shares on the open market or in private transactions from time to time, depending on market conditions.  
     
 123   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Other Stock Transactions   
     
  The company issued the following shares of common stock as part of its stock-based compensation plans and employees stock purchase plan: 3,893,366 shares in 2016, 6,013,875 shares in 2015, and 7,687,026 shares in 2014. The company issued 383,077 treasury shares in 2016, 1,155,558 treasury shares in 2015 and 1,264,232 treasury shares in 2014, as a result of restricted stock unit releases and exercises of stock options by employees of certain acquired businesses and by non-U.S. employees. Also, as part of the company s stock-based compensation plans, 854,365 common shares at a cost of $126 million, 1,625,820 common shares at a cost of $248 million, and 1,313,569 common shares at a cost of $236 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were remitted by employees to the company in order to satisfy minimum statutory tax withholding requirements. These amounts are included in the treasury stock balance in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity.  
     
   Reclassifications and Taxes Related to Items of Other Comprehensive Income   
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  for additional information.) 
     
 124   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  for additional information.) 
     
 125   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            These AOCI components are included in the computation of net periodic pension cost. (See note S,  Retirement-Related Benefits,  for additional information.) 
     
   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income/(Loss) (net of tax)   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*          Foreign currency translation adjustments are presented gross except for any associated hedges which are presented net of tax. 
     
 126   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE M. CONTINGENCIES AND COMMITMENTS   
     
   Contingencies   
     
  As a company with a substantial employee population and with clients in more than 175 countries, IBM is involved, either as plaintiff or defendant, in a variety of ongoing claims, demands, suits, investigations, tax matters and proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary course of its business. The company is a leader in the information technology industry and, as such, has been and will continue to be subject to claims challenging its IP rights and associated products and offerings, including claims of copyright and patent infringement and violations of trade secrets and other IP rights. In addition, the company enforces its own IP against infringement, through license negotiations, lawsuits or otherwise. Also, as is typical for companies of IBM s scope and scale, the company is party to actions and proceedings in various jurisdictions involving a wide range of labor and employment issues (including matters related to contested employment decisions, country-specific labor and employment laws, and the company s pension, retirement and other benefit plans), as well as actions with respect to contracts, product liability, securities, foreign operations, competition law and environmental matters. These actions may be commenced by a number of different parties, including competitors, clients, current or former employees, government and regulatory agencies, stockholders and representatives of the locations in which the company does business. Some of the actions to which the company is party may involve particularly complex technical issues, and some actions may raise novel questions under the laws of the various jurisdictions in which these matters arise.  
     
  The company records a provision with respect to a claim, suit, investigation or proceeding when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Any recorded liabilities, including any changes to such liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were not material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
     
  In accordance with the relevant accounting guidance, the company provides disclosures of matters for which the likelihood of material loss is at least reasonably possible. In addition, the company also discloses matters based on its consideration of other matters and qualitative factors, including the experience of other companies in the industry, and investor, customer and employee relations considerations.  
     
  With respect to certain of the claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed herein, the company believes at this time that the likelihood of any material loss is remote, given, for example, the procedural status, court rulings, and/or the strength of the company s defenses in those matters. With respect to the remaining claims, suits, investigations and proceedings discussed in this note, except as specifically discussed herein, the company is unable to provide estimates of reasonably possible losses or range of losses, including losses in excess of amounts accrued, if any, for the following reasons. Claims, suits, investigations and proceedings are inherently uncertain, and it is not possible to predict the ultimate outcome of these matters. It is the company s experience that damage amounts claimed in litigation against it are unreliable and unrelated to possible outcomes, and as such are not meaningful indicators of the company s potential liability. Further, the company is unable to provide such an estimate due to a number of other factors with respect to these claims, suits, investigations and proceedings, including considerations of the procedural status of the matter in question, the presence of complex or novel legal theories, and/or the ongoing discovery and development of information important to the matters. The company reviews claims, suits, investigations and proceedings at least quarterly, and decisions are made with respect to recording or adjusting provisions and disclosing reasonably possible losses or range of losses (individually or in the aggregate), to reflect the impact and status of settlement discussions, discovery, procedural and substantive rulings, reviews by counsel and other information pertinent to a particular matter.  
     
  Whether any losses, damages or remedies finally determined in any claim, suit, investigation or proceeding could reasonably have a material effect on the company s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows will depend on a number of variables, including: the timing and amount of such losses or damages; the structure and type of any such remedies; the significance of the impact any such losses, damages or remedies may have in the Consolidated Financial Statements; and the unique facts and circumstances of the particular matter that may give rise to additional factors. While the company will continue to defend itself vigorously, it is possible that the company s business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be affected in any particular period by the resolution of one or more of these matters.  
     
  The following is a summary of the more significant legal matters involving the company.  
     
  The company is a defendant in an action filed on March 6, 2003 in state court in Salt Lake City, Utah by the SCO Group (SCO v. IBM). The company removed the case to Federal Court in Utah. Plaintiff is an alleged successor in interest to some of AT T s UNIX IP rights, and alleges copyright infringement, unfair competition, interference with contract and breach of contract with regard to the company s distribution of AIX and Dynix and contribution of code to Linux and the company has asserted counterclaims. On September 14, 2007, plaintiff filed for bankruptcy protection, and all proceedings in this case were stayed. The court in another suit, the SCO Group, Inc. v. Novell, Inc., held a trial in March 2010. The jury found that Novell is the owner of UNIX and UnixWare copyrights; the judge subsequently ruled that SCO is obligated to recognize Novell s waiver of SCO s claims against IBM and Sequent for breach of UNIX license agreements. On August 30, 2011, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the district court s ruling and denied SCO s appeal of this matter. In June 2013, the Federal Court in Utah granted SCO s motion to reopen the SCO v. IBM case.  
     
 127   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  In February 2016, the Federal Court ruled in favor of IBM on all of SCO s remaining claims, and in March 2016, SCO filed a notice of appeal to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals.  
     
  On May 13, 2010, IBM and the State of Indiana (acting on behalf of the Indiana Family and Social Services Administration) sued one another in a dispute over a 2006 contract regarding the modernization of social service program processing in Indiana. After six weeks of trial, on July 18, 2012, the Indiana Superior Court in Marion County rejected the State s claims in their entirety and awarded IBM $52 million plus interest and costs. On February 13, 2014, the Indiana Court of Appeals reversed portions of the trial judge s findings, found IBM in material breach, and ordered the case remanded to the trial judge to determine the State s damages, if any. The Indiana Court of Appeals also affirmed approximately $50 million of the trial court s award of damages to IBM. On March 22, 2016, the Indiana Supreme Court affirmed the outcome of the Indiana Court of Appeals and remanded the case to the Indiana Superior Court.  
     
  On April 16, 2014, Iusacell SA de C.V. (Iusacell) sued IBM, claiming that IBM made fraudulent misrepresentations that induced Iusacell to enter into an agreement with IBM Mexico. Iusacell claims damages for lost profits. Iusacell s complaint relates to a contractual dispute in Mexico, which is the subject of a pending arbitration proceeding in Mexico initiated by IBM Mexico against Iusacell for breach of the underlying agreement. On November 14, 2014, the District Court in the Southern District of New York granted IBM s motion to stay Iusacell s action against the company pending the arbitration in Mexico between Iusacell and IBM Mexico.  
     
  IBM United Kingdom Limited (IBM UK) initiated legal proceedings in May 2010 before the High Court in London against the IBM UK Pensions Trust (the UK Trust) and two representative beneficiaries of the UK Trust membership. IBM UK is seeking a declaration that it acted lawfully both in notifying the Trustee of the UK Trust that it was closing its UK defined benefit plans to future accruals for most participants and in implementing the company s new retirement policy. In April 2014, the High Court acknowledged that the changes made to its UK defined benefit plans were within IBM s discretion, but ruled that IBM breached its implied duty of good faith both in implementing these changes and in the manner in which it consulted with employees. Proceedings to determine remedies were held in July 2014, and in February 2015 the High Court held that for IBM to make changes to accruals under the plan would require a new consultation of the participants, but other changes (including to early retirement policy) would not require such consultation. IBM UK has appealed both the breach and remedies judgments. If the appeal is unsuccessful, the Court s rulings would require IBM to reverse the changes made to the UK defined benefit plans retroactive to their effective dates. This could result in an estimated non-operating one-time pre-tax charge of approximately $290 million, plus ongoing defined benefit related accruals. In addition, IBM UK is a defendant in approximately 290 individual actions brought since early 2010 by participants of the defined benefits plans who left IBM UK. These actions, which allege constructive dismissal and age discrimination, are pending before the Employment Tribunal in Southampton UK.  
     
  In March 2011, the company announced that it had agreed to settle a civil enforcement action with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) relating to alleged violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (FCPA). On July 25, 2013, the court approved that 2011 settlement and required that for a two-year period IBM make reports to the SEC and the court on certain matters, including those relating to compliance with the FCPA. The two-year period expired in July 2015. In early 2012, IBM notified the SEC of an investigation by the Polish Central Anti-Corruption Bureau involving allegations of illegal activity by a former IBM Poland employee in connection with sales to the Polish government. IBM is cooperating with the SEC and Polish authorities in this matter. In April 2013, IBM learned that the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) is also investigating allegations related to the Poland matter, as well as allegations relating to transactions in Argentina, Bangladesh and Ukraine. The DOJ is also seeking information regarding the company s global FCPA compliance program and its public sector business. The company is cooperating with the DOJ in this matter.  
     
  In March 2015, putative class action litigation was commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York related to the company s October 2014 announcement that it was divesting its global commercial semiconductor technology business. The company and three of its officers were named as defendants. Plaintiffs allege that defendants violated Sections 20(a) and 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Rule 10b-5 thereunder. In May 2015, a related putative class action was also commenced in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York based on the same underlying facts, alleging violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ( ERISA ). The company, management s Retirement Plans Committee, and three current or former IBM executives were named as defendants. On September 7, 2016, the Court granted the company s motions to dismiss the plaintiffs  claims in both actions. On October 21, 2016, the ERISA plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, dropping the company as a defendant. The matter remains pending in the United States District Court.  
     
  In August 2015, IBM learned that the SEC is conducting an investigation relating to revenue recognition with respect to the accounting treatment of certain transactions in the U.S., UK and Ireland. The company is cooperating with the SEC in this matter.  
     
  The company is party to, or otherwise involved in, proceedings brought by U.S. federal or state environmental agencies under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), known as  Superfund,  or laws similar to CERCLA. Such statutes require potentially responsible parties to participate in remediation activities regardless of fault or ownership of sites. The company is also conducting  
     
 128   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  environmental investigations, assessments or remediations at or in the vicinity of several current or former operating sites globally pursuant to permits, administrative orders or agreements with country, state or local environmental agencies, and is involved in lawsuits and claims concerning certain current or former operating sites.  
     
  The company is also subject to ongoing tax examinations and governmental assessments in various jurisdictions. Along with many other U.S. companies doing business in Brazil, the company is involved in various challenges with Brazilian tax authorities regarding non-income tax assessments and non-income tax litigation matters. In 2016, the company also received new non-income tax assessments from the municipality of Rio de Janeiro. The total potential amount related to all these matters for all applicable years is approximately $980 million. The company believes it will prevail on these matters and that this amount is not a meaningful indicator of liability.  
     
   Commitments   
     
  The company s extended lines of credit to third-party entities include unused amounts of $6,542 million and $5,477 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. A portion of these amounts was available to the company s business partners to support their working capital needs. In addition, the company has committed to provide future financing to its clients in connection with client purchase agreements for approximately $2,463 million and $2,097 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
  The company has applied the guidance requiring a guarantor to disclose certain types of guarantees, even if the likelihood of requiring the guarantor s performance is remote. The following is a description of arrangements in which the company is the guarantor.  
     
  The company is a party to a variety of agreements pursuant to which it may be obligated to indemnify the other party with respect to certain matters. Typically, these obligations arise in the context of contracts entered into by the company, under which the company customarily agrees to hold the other party harmless against losses arising from a breach of representations and covenants related to such matters as title to assets sold, certain IP rights, specified environmental matters, third-party performance of nonfinancial contractual obligations and certain income taxes. In each of these circumstances, payment by the company is conditioned on the other party making a claim pursuant to the procedures specified in the particular contract, the procedures of which typically allow the company to challenge the other party s claims. While typically indemnification provisions do not include a contractual maximum on the company s payment, the company s obligations under these agreements may be limited in terms of time and/or nature of claim, and in some instances, the company may have recourse against third parties for certain payments made by the company.  
     
  It is not possible to predict the maximum potential amount of future payments under these or similar agreements due to the conditional nature of the company s obligations and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each particular agreement. Historically, payments made by the company under these agreements have not had a material effect on the company s business, financial condition or results of operations.  
     
  In addition, the company guarantees certain loans and financial commitments. The maximum potential future payment under these financial guarantees was $34 million and $34 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The fair value of the guarantees recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position was immaterial.  
     
   NOTE N. TAXES   
     
  ($ in millions)  

The income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by geographic operations is as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

129   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The components of the income from continuing operations provision for income taxes by taxing jurisdiction are as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal tax rate to the company s effective tax rate from continuing operations is as follows:  

Percentages rounded for disclosure purposes.  
     
  The significant components reflected within the tax rate reconciliation labeled  Foreign tax differential  include the effects of foreign subsidiaries  earnings taxed at rates other than the U.S. statutory rate, foreign export incentives, the U.S. tax impacts of non-U.S. earnings repatriation and any net impacts of intercompany transactions. These items also reflect audit settlements, excluding Japan, or changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with each of these items.  
     
  In 2016, the company favorably settled the remaining open items on the company s U.S. income tax returns for 2011 and 2012 resulting in no further adjustments.  
     
  In April 2010, the company appealed the determination of the Japanese Tax Authorities with respect to certain foreign tax losses. The tax benefit of these losses, approximately $1.0 billion adjusted for currency, had been included in unrecognized tax benefits as of December 2015. In April 2011, the company received notification that the appeal was denied, and in June 2011, the company filed a lawsuit challenging this decision. In May 2014, the Tokyo District Court ruled in favor of the company. The Japanese government appealed the ruling to the Tokyo High Court. On March 25, 2015, the Tokyo High Court ruled in favor of IBM and, on April 7, 2015, the Japanese government appealed the ruling to the Japan Supreme Court. On February 18, 2016, the Supreme Court denied the government appeal thereby upholding the Tokyo High Court s decision in favor of the company as the final judgment in this matter. This led to a refund of the taxes previously paid of $1.0 billion, which the company received in the first-quarter 2016 and included in the effective tax rate. Interest of $0.2 billion was also received.  
     
  The 2016 continuing operations effective tax rate decreased 12.5 points from 2015 driven by: the favorable resolution of the Japan tax matter described above (9.5 points), a benefit due to the year-to-year decrease in tax charges related to intercompany payments made by foreign subsidiaries and the intercompany licensing of certain IP (5.7 points), and a benefit from the geographic mix of pre-tax earnings year over year. These benefits were partially offset by a reduced benefit year to year related to audit settlements (2.3 points) and a decreased benefit year to year in the utilization of foreign tax credits (0.6 points).  
     
  The effect of tax law changes on deferred tax assets and liabilities did not have a material impact on the company s effective tax rate.  
     
  The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position were:  
     
   Deferred Tax Assets   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*   Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation  
     
 130   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Deferred Tax Liabilities   
     
  ($ in millions)  

For income tax return purposes, the company has foreign and domestic loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which is $855 million, as well as domestic and foreign credit carryforwards of $1,982 million. Substantially all of these carryforwards are available for at least two years and the majority are available for 10 years or more.  
     
  The valuation allowances as of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $916 million, $740 million and $646 million, respectively. The amounts principally apply to certain foreign, state and local loss carryforwards and credits. In the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that these assets will not be realized. However, to the extent that tax benefits related to these carryforwards are realized in the future, the reduction in the valuation allowance will reduce income tax expense.  
     
  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2016 decreased by $834 million in 2016 to $3,740 million. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:  
     
  ($ in millions)  

The additions to unrecognized tax benefits related to the current and prior years are primarily attributable to non-U.S. issues, certain tax incentives and credits and state issues. The settlements and reductions to unrecognized tax benefits for tax positions of prior years are primarily attributable to the favorable resolution of the Japan tax matter, currency, non-U.S. audits and impacts due to lapses in statutes of limitation.  
     
  The liability at December 31, 2016 of $3,740 million can be reduced by $775 million of offsetting tax benefits associated with the correlative effects of potential transfer pricing adjustments, U.S. tax credits, state income taxes and timing adjustments. The net amount of $2,965 million, if recognized, would favorably affect the company s effective tax rate. The net amounts at December 31, 2015 and 2014 were $3,724 million and $4,229 million, respectively.  
     
  Interest and penalties related to income tax liabilities are included in income tax expense. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the company recognized $62 million in interest expense and penalties; in 2015, the company recognized $141 million in interest expense and penalties; and, in 2014, the company recognized $216 million in interest expense and penalties. The company has $625 million for the payment of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2016, and had $613 million accrued at December 31, 2015.  
     
  Within the next 12 months, the company believes it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits associated with certain positions may be reduced. The potential decrease in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits is associated with the anticipated resolution of the company s U.S. income tax audit for 2013 and 2014, as well as various non-U.S. audits. The company estimates that the unrecognized tax benefits at December 31, 2016 could be reduced by $966 million.  
     
  The company is subject to taxation in the U.S. and various state and foreign jurisdictions. With respect to major U.S. state and foreign taxing jurisdictions, the company is generally no longer subject to tax examinations for years prior to 2012. With limited exception, the company is no longer subject to income tax examination of its U.S. federal tax return for years prior to 2013. The open years contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations related to the amount and/or timing of income, deductions and tax credits. Although the outcome of tax audits is always uncertain, the company believes that adequate amounts of tax and interest have been provided for any significant adjustments that are expected to result for these years.  
     
  In the fourth quarter of 2013, the company received a draft tax assessment notice for approximately $866 million (approximately $789 million at 2016 year-end currency rates) from the Indian Tax Authorities for 2009. In July 2016, the Karnataka High Court in Bangalore set aside this assessment by way of court order and the company reached a mutual agreement with the Income Tax Department for a new assessment, which will take place over an 18 month period. At December 31, 2016, the company has recorded $568 million as prepaid income taxes in India. A significant portion of this balance represents cash tax deposits paid over time to protect the company s right to appeal various income tax assessments made by the Indian Tax Authorities. The company believes it will prevail on these matters.  
     
  In the first quarter of 2016, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service commenced its audit of the company s U.S. tax returns for 2013 and 2014. The company anticipates that this audit will be completed by the end of 2017.  
     
 131   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The company has not provided deferred taxes on $71.4 billion of undistributed earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries at December 31, 2016, as it is the company s policy to indefinitely reinvest these earnings in non-U.S. operations. However, the company periodically repatriates a portion of these earnings to the extent that it does not incur an additional U.S. tax liability. Quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with indefinitely reinvested earnings is not practicable.  
     
   NOTE O. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING   
     
  RD E expense was $5,751 million in 2016, $5,247 million in 2015 and $5,437 million in 2014. In addition, RD E expense included in discontinued operations was $1 million in 2016, $197 million in 2015 and $368 million in 2014.  
     
  The company incurred total expense of $5,421 million, $5,178 million and $5,595 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, for scientific research and the application of scientific advances to the development of new and improved products and their uses, as well as services and their application. Within these amounts, software-related expense was $3,470 million, $3,064 million and $3,064 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
     
  Expense for product-related engineering was $332 million, $267 million and $211 million in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
     
   NOTE P. EARNINGS PER SHARE OF COMMON STOCK   
     
  The following table presents the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share of common stock.  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

Weighted-average stock options to purchase 405,552 common shares in 2016, 41,380 common shares in 2015 and 17,420 common shares in 2014 were outstanding, but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price of the options was greater than the average market price of the common shares for the full year, and therefore, the effect would have been antidilutive.  
     
 132   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   NOTE Q. RENTAL EXPENSE AND LEASE COMMITMENTS   
     
  Rental expense, including amounts charged to inventories and fixed assets, and excluding amounts previously reserved, was $1,508 million in 2016, $1,474 million in 2015 and $1,592 million in 2014. Within these amounts, rental expense reflected in discontinued operations was $29 million and $95 million, in 2015 and 2014, respectively. Rental expense in agreements with rent holidays and scheduled rent increases is recorded on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Contingent rentals are included in the determination of rental expense as accruable. The table below depicts gross minimum rental commitments under noncancelable leases, amounts related to vacant space associated with workforce transformation, sublease income commitments and capital lease commitments. These amounts reflect activities primarily related to office space, as well as data centers.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE R. STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION   
     
  The following table presents total stock-based compensation cost included in income from continuing operations.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Reflects the one-time effects related to divestitures 
     
  The amount of stock-based compensation cost included in discontinued operations, net of tax, was immaterial in all periods.  
     
  Total unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested awards at December 31, 2016 and 2015 was $934 million and $871 million, respectively. The amount at December 31, 2016 is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately 2.6 years.  
     
  There was no significant capitalized stock-based compensation cost at December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014.  
     
   Incentive Awards   
     
  Stock-based incentive awards are provided to employees under the terms of the company s long-term performance plans (the  Plans ). The Plans are administered by the Executive Compensation and Management Resources Committee of the Board of Directors (the  Committee ). Awards available under the Plans principally include restricted stock units, performance share units, stock options or any combination thereof.  
     
  The amount of shares originally authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans was 273 million at December 31, 2016. In addition, certain incentive awards granted under previous plans, if and when those awards were canceled, could be reissued under the company s existing Plans. As such, 66.2 million additional shares were considered authorized to be issued under the company s existing Plans as of December 31, 2016. There were 106.7 million unused shares available to be granted under the Plans as of December 31, 2016.  
     
  Under the company s long-standing practices and policies, all awards are approved prior to or on the date of grant. The awards approval process specifies the individual receiving the grant, the number of options or the value of the award, the exercise price or formula for determining the exercise price and the date of grant. All awards for senior management are approved by the Committee. All awards for employees other than senior management are approved by senior management pursuant to a series of delegations that were approved by the Committee, and the grants made pursuant to these delegations are reviewed periodically with the Committee. Awards that are given as part of annual total compensation for senior management and other employees are made on specific cycle dates scheduled in advance. With respect to awards given in connection with promotions or new hires, the company s policy requires approval of such awards prior to the grant date, which is typically the date of the promotion or the date of hire.  
     
   Stock Awards   
     
  Stock awards are made in the form of Restricted Stock Units (RSUs), including Retention Restricted Stock Units (RRSUs), or Performance Share Units (PSUs).  
     
 133   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The tables below summarize RSU and PSU activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.  
     
   RSUs   

PSUs   

*             Represents the change in shares issued to employees after vesting of PSUs because final performance metrics were above or below specified targets 
  ** Represents the number of shares expected to be issued based on achievement of grant date performance targets. The actual number of shares issued will depend on final performance against specified targets over the vesting period.  
     
  RSUs are stock awards granted to employees that entitle the holder to shares of common stock as the award vests, typically over a one- to five-year period. For RSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of such RSUs is determined and fixed on the grant date based on the company s stock price adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents.  
     
  The remaining weighted-average contractual term of RSUs at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 is the same as the period over which the remaining cost of the awards will be recognized, which is approximately three years. The fair value of RSUs granted during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $557 million, $606 million and $434 million, respectively. The total fair value of RSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $323 million, $583 million and $378 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, there was $814 million, $800 million and $754 million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested RSUs. The company received no cash from employees as a result of employee vesting and release of RSUs for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.  
     
  PSUs are stock awards where the number of shares ultimately received by the employee depends on the company s performance against specified targets and typically vest over a three-year period. For PSUs, dividend equivalents are not paid. The fair value of each PSU is determined on the grant date, based on the company s stock price, adjusted for the exclusion of dividend equivalents, and assumes that performance targets will be achieved. Over the performance period, the number of shares of stock that will be issued is adjusted upward or downward based upon the probability of achievement of performance targets. The ultimate number of shares issued and the related compensation cost recognized as expense will be based on a comparison of the final performance metrics to the specified targets. The fair value of PSUs granted at target during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $138 million, $174 million and $257 million, respectively. Total fair value of PSUs vested and released during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $81 million, $156 million and $161 million, respectively.  
     
  In connection with vesting and release of RSUs and PSUs, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $118 million, $228 million and $222 million, respectively.  
     
 134   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Stock Options   
     
  During the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, the company did not grant stock options. During the year ended December 31, 2016, the company made one grant of 1.5 million premium-priced stock options. The option award cliff vests in three years and has a contractual term of 10 years. The total compensation cost to be recognized over the three-year vesting period is expected to be $12 million.  
     
  The company estimates the fair value of stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes valuation model. Key inputs and assumptions used to estimate the fair value of stock options include the grant price of the award, the expected option term, volatility of the company s stock, the risk-free rate and the company s dividend yield. Estimates of fair value are not intended to predict actual future events or the value ultimately realized by employees who receive equity awards, and subsequent events are not indicative of the reasonableness of the original estimates of fair value made by the company.  
     
  The following table summarizes option activity under the Plans during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014.  

The shares under option at December 31, 2016 were in the following exercise price ranges:  

Exercises of Employee Stock Options   
     
  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was $20 million, $74 million and $323 million, respectively. The total cash received from employees as a result of employee stock option exercises for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was approximately $33 million, $119 million and $364 million, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the tax benefits realized by the company for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 were $7 million, $26 million and $107 million, respectively.  
     
  The company settles employee stock option exercises primarily with newly issued common shares and, occasionally, with treasury shares. Total treasury shares held at December 31, 2016 and 2015 were approximately 1,279 million and 1,255 million shares, respectively.  
     
 135   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Acquisitions   
     
  In connection with various acquisition transactions, there was an additional 0.6 million options outstanding at December 31, 2016, as a result of the company s conversion of stock-based awards previously granted by the acquired entities. The weighted-average exercise price of these awards was $33 per share.  
     
   IBM Employees Stock Purchase Plan   
     
  The company maintains a non-compensatory Employees Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). The ESPP enables eligible participants to purchase full or fractional shares of IBM common stock at a 5 percent discount off the average market price on the day of purchase through payroll deductions of up to 10 percent of eligible compensation. Eligible compensation includes any compensation received by the employee during the year. The ESPP provides for offering periods during which shares may be purchased and continues as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors. Individual ESPP participants are restricted from purchasing more than $25,000 of common stock in one calendar year or 1,000 shares in an offering period.  
     
  Employees purchased 1.2 million, 1.3 million and 1.3 million shares under the ESPP during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Cash dividends declared and paid by the company on its common stock also include cash dividends on the company stock purchased through the ESPP. Dividends are paid on full and fractional shares and can be reinvested. The company stock purchased through the ESPP is considered outstanding and is included in the weighted-average outstanding shares for purposes of computing basic and diluted earnings per share.  
     
  In July 2014, the  2014 ESPP Reserve  became effective and 25 million additional shares of authorized common stock were reserved and approved for issuance. The 2014 ESPP provides for semi-annual offerings commencing July 1, 2014, and continuing as long as shares remain available under the ESPP, unless terminated earlier at the discretion of the Board of Directors.  
     
  Approximately 21.8 million, 23.1 million and 24.4 million shares were available for purchase under the ESPP at December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.  
     
   NOTE S. RETIREMENT-RELATED BENEFITS   
     
   Description of Plans   
     
  IBM sponsors defined benefit pension plans and defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees, a supplemental retention plan that covers certain U.S. executives and nonpension postretirement benefit plans primarily consisting of retiree medical and dental benefits for eligible retirees and dependents.  
     
   U.S. Plans   
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plans   
       
  IBM Personal Pension Plan  
     
  IBM provides U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees hired prior to January 1, 2005 with noncontributory defined benefit pension benefits via the IBM Personal Pension Plan. Prior to 2008, the IBM Personal Pension Plan consisted of a tax qualified (qualified) plan and a non-tax qualified (nonqualified) plan. Effective January 1, 2008, the nonqualified plan was renamed the Excess Personal Pension Plan (Excess PPP) and the qualified plan is now referred to as the Qualified PPP. The combined plan is now referred to as the PPP. The Qualified PPP is funded by company contributions to an irrevocable trust fund, which is held for the sole benefit of participants and beneficiaries. The Excess PPP, which is unfunded, provides benefits in excess of IRS limitations for qualified plans.  
     
  Benefits provided to the PPP participants are calculated using benefit formulas that vary based on the participant. The first method uses a five-year, final pay formula that determines benefits based on salary, years of service, mortality and other participant-specific factors. The second method is a cash balance formula that calculates benefits using a percentage of employees  annual salary, as well as an interest crediting rate.  
     
  Benefit accruals under the IBM Personal Pension Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants.  
     
  U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan  
     
  The company also sponsors a nonqualified U.S. Supplemental Executive Retention Plan (Retention Plan). The Retention Plan, which is unfunded, provides benefits to eligible U.S. executives based on average earnings, years of service and age at termination of employment.  
     
  Benefit accruals under the Retention Plan ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants.  
     
   Defined Contribution Plans   
     
  IBM 401(k) Plus Plan  
     
  U.S. regular, full-time and part-time employees are eligible to participate in the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, which is a qualified defined contribution plan under section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the IBM 401(k) Plus Plan, eligible employees receive a dollar-for-dollar match of their contributions generally up to 6 percent of eligible compensation for those hired prior to January 1, 2005, and, generally up to 5 percent of eligible compensation for those hired on or after January 1, 2005. In addition, eligible employees generally receive automatic contributions from the company equal to 1, 2 or 4 percent of eligible compensation based on their eligibility to participate in the PPP as of December 31, 2007. Employees generally receive automatic contributions and matching contributions after the completion of one year of service.  
     
 136   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  All contributions, including the company match, are made in cash and invested in accordance with participants  investment elections. There are no minimum amounts that must be invested in company stock, and there are no restrictions on transferring amounts out of company stock to another investment choice, other than excessive trading rules applicable to such investments. Matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, matching and automatic contributions can be made for certain types of separations that occur prior to December 15, including, for example, if the participant has completed certain service and/or age requirements at separation. The company s matching contributions vest immediately and participants are always fully vested in their own contributions.  
     
  IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan  
     
  The IBM Excess 401(k) Plus Plan (Excess 401(k)) is an unfunded, nonqualified defined contribution plan. Employees whose eligible compensation is expected to exceed the IRS compensation limit for qualified plans are eligible to participate in the Excess 401(k). The purpose of the Excess 401(k) is to provide benefits that would be provided under the qualified IBM 401(k) Plus Plan if the compensation limits did not apply.  
     
  Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k) are record-keeping (notional) accounts and are not held in trust for the participants. Participants in the Excess 401(k) may invest their notional accounts in investments which mirror the primary investment options available under the 401(k) Plus Plan. Participants in the Excess 401(k) are also eligible to receive company match and automatic contributions (at the same rate as under the 401(k) Plus Plan) on eligible compensation deferred into the Excess 401(k) and on compensation earned in excess of the Internal Revenue Code pay limit once they have completed one year of service. Amounts deferred into the Excess 401(k), including company contributions are recorded as liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Matching and automatic contributions are made once annually at the end of the year. In order to receive such contributions each year, a participant must be employed on December 15 of the plan year. However, matching and automatic contributions can be made for certain types of separations that occur prior to December 15, including, for example, if the participant has completed certain service and/or age requirements at separation.  
     
   Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan   
     
  U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Plan  
     
  The company sponsors a defined benefit nonpension postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and dental benefits to eligible U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees. Effective July 1, 1999, the company established a Future Health Account (FHA) for employees who were more than five years from retirement eligibility. Employees who were within five years of retirement eligibility are covered under the company s prior retiree health benefits arrangements. Under either the FHA or the prior retiree health benefit arrangements, there is a maximum cost to the company for retiree health benefits. Effective January 1, 2014, the company amended the plan to establish a Health Reimbursement Arrangement (HRA) for each Medicare-eligible plan retiree, surviving spouse and long-term disability plan participant who is eligible for company-subsidized coverage and who enrolls in an individual plan under the Medicare Exchange. The company also amended its life insurance plan. Employees retiring on or after January 1, 2015 are not eligible for life insurance.  
     
  Since January 1, 2004, new hires, as of that date or later, are not eligible for company-subsidized nonpension postretirement benefits.  
     
   Non-U.S. Plans   
     
  Certain subsidiaries and branches outside the United States sponsor defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans that cover eligible regular employees. The company deposits funds under various fiduciary-type arrangements, purchases annuities under group contracts or provides reserves for these plans. Benefits under the defined benefit plans are typically based either on years of service and the employee s compensation (generally during a fixed number of years immediately before retirement) or on annual credits. The range of assumptions that are used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflect the different economic environments within the various countries.  
     
  In addition, certain of the company s non-U.S. subsidiaries sponsor nonpension postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and dental benefits to eligible non-U.S. retirees and eligible dependents, as well as life insurance for certain eligible non-U.S. retirees. However, most non-U.S. retirees are covered by local government sponsored and administered programs.  
     
 137   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Plan Financial Information   
   Summary of Financial Information   
     
  The following table presents a summary of the total retirement-related benefits net periodic (income)/cost recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings.  

($ in millions)              

The following table presents a summary of the total PBO for defined benefit pension plans, APBO for nonpension postretirement benefit plans, fair value of plan assets and the associated funded status recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

($ in millions)              

*             Funded status is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as follows: Asset amounts as prepaid pension assets; (Liability) amounts as compensation and benefits (current liability) and retirement and nonpension postretirement benefit obligations (noncurrent liability). 
     
 138   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  At December 31, 2016, the company s qualified defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 98 percent funded compared to the benefit obligations, with the U.S. Qualified PPP 102 percent funded. Overall, including nonqualified plans, the company s defined benefit pension plans worldwide were 90 percent funded.  
     
   Defined Benefit Pension and Nonpension   
   Postretirement Benefit Plan Financial Information   
     
  The following tables to page 142 represent financial information for the company s retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans. The defined benefit pension plans under U.S. Plans consists of the Qualified PPP, the Excess PPP and the Retention Plan. The defined benefit pension plans and the nonpension postretirement benefit plans under non-U.S. Plans consists of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries. The nonpension postretirement benefit plan under U.S. Plan consists of only the U.S. Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan.  
     
  The tables below present the components of net periodic (income)/cost of the retirement-related benefit plans recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings, excluding defined contribution plans.  

($ in millions)              

($ in millions)              

*             The non-U.S. plans amount includes $56 million, $233 million and $148 million related to the IBM Spain pension litigation for 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. See page 142 for additional information. 
     
 139   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table presents the changes in benefit obligations and plan assets of the company s retirement-related benefit plans, excluding defined contribution plans.  

($ in millions)              

*             Includes the reinstatement of certain plan assets in Brazil due to government rulings in 2011 and 2013 allowing certain previously restricted plan assets to be returned to IBM. Return of assets to IBM over a three-year period began June 2011 and September 2013 respectively, with approximately $23 million returned in 2016 and $33 million returned during 2015. The remaining surplus in Brazil at December 31, 2016 is excluded from total plan assets due to continued restrictions imposed by the government on the use of those plan assets. 
  **      Represents the benefit obligation assuming no future participant compensation increases 
  N/A Not applicable  
     
 140   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table presents the net funded status recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  

($ in millions)              

The following table presents the pre-tax net loss and prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in OCI and the changes in the pre-tax net loss, prior service costs/(credits) and transition (assets)/liabilities recognized in AOCI for the retirement-related benefit plans.  

($ in millions)              

*             See note L,  Equity Activity,  for the total change in AOCI, and the Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income for the components of net periodic (income)/cost, including the related tax effects, recognized in OCI for the retirement-related benefit plans. 
     
 141   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following table presents the pre-tax estimated net loss, estimated prior service costs/(credits) and estimated transition (assets)/ liabilities of the retirement-related benefit plans that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic (income)/cost in 2017.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

On March 24, 2014, the Supreme Court of Spain issued a ruling against IBM Spain in litigation involving its defined benefit and defined contribution plans. During the fourth quarter of 2016, an arbitration ruling related to the defined contribution plan resulted in an additional charge of $56 million. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the company recorded pre-tax retirement-related obligations of $56 million, $233 million and $148 million, respectively, in selling, general and administrative expense in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. These obligations are reflected in  Non-U.S. Plans  Multi-employer plans/other costs  in the table on page 139.  
     
   Assumptions Used to Determine Plan Financial Information   Underlying both the measurement of benefit obligations and net periodic (income)/cost are actuarial valuations. These valuations use participant-specific information such as salary, age and years of service, as well as certain assumptions, the most significant of which include estimates of discount rates, expected return on plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest crediting rates and mortality rates. The company evaluates these assumptions, at a minimum, annually, and makes changes as necessary. 
     
  The table below presents the assumptions used to measure the net periodic (income)/cost and the year-end benefit obligations for retirement-related benefit plans.  

N/A Not applicable  

N/A Not applicable  
     
 142   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Discount Rate   
     
  The discount rate assumptions used for retirement-related benefit plans accounting reflect the yields available on high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments at the measurement date. For the U.S. and certain non-U.S. countries, a portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds is used to construct a yield curve. The cash flows from the company s expected benefit obligation payments are then matched to the yield curve to derive the discount rates. In other non-U.S. countries, where the markets for high-quality long-term bonds are not generally as well developed, a portfolio of long-term government bonds is used as a base, to which a credit spread is added to simulate corporate bond yields at these maturities in the jurisdiction of each plan, as the benchmark for developing the respective discount rates.  
     
  For the U.S. defined benefit pension plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions impacted the net periodic (income)/ cost and the PBO. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in 2016 net periodic income of $103 million, a decrease in 2015 net periodic income of $286 million and an increase in 2014 net periodic income of $275 million. The changes in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the PBO of $998 million and a decrease of $1,621 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
  For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the changes in the discount rate assumptions had no material impact on net periodic cost for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, and resulted in an increase in the APBO of $33 million and a decrease of $109 million at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
  For all of the company s retirement-related benefit plans, the change in the discount rate assumptions resulted in an increase in the benefit obligation of approximately $4.8 billion at December 31, 2016 and a decrease of approximately $2.4 billion at December 31, 2015.  
     
   Expected Long-Term Returns on Plan Assets   
     
  Expected returns on plan assets, a component of net periodic (income)/cost, represent the expected long-term returns on plan assets based on the calculated market-related value of plan assets. Expected long-term returns on plan assets take into account long-term expectations for future returns and the investment policies and strategies as described on page 144. These rates of return are developed by the company and are tested for reasonableness against historical returns. The use of expected long-term returns on plan assets may result in recognized pension income that is greater or less than the actual returns of those plan assets in any given year. Over time, however, the expected long-term returns are designed to approximate the actual long-term returns, and therefore result in a pattern of income and cost recognition that more closely matches the pattern of the services provided by the employees. Differences between actual and expected returns are recognized as a component of net loss or gain in AOCI, which is amortized as a component of net periodic (income)/cost over the service lives or life expectancy of the plan participants, depending on the plan, provided such amounts exceed certain thresholds provided by accounting standards. The market-related value of plan assets recognizes changes in the fair value of plan assets systematically over a five-year period in the expected return on plan assets line in net periodic (income)/cost.  
     
  For the U.S. defined benefit pension plan, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014 was 7.0 percent, 7.5 percent and 8 percent, respectively. The change in the rate in 2016 resulted in a decrease in 2016 net periodic income of $268 million. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the change in the rate resulted in a decrease in net periodic income of $264 million. There was no impact on net periodic income for the year ended December 31, 2014 as the rate was flat at 8 percent compared to the prior year. For 2017, the projected long-term rate of return on plan assets is 5.75 percent. The 125 basis point year-to-year decline is primarily driven by a change in investment strategy.  
     
  For the U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plans, the company maintains a highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely payments are made. As a result, for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, the expected long-term return on plan assets and the actual return on those assets were not material.  
     
   Rate of Compensation Increases and Mortality Rate   
     
  The rate of compensation increases is determined by the company, based upon its long-term plans for such increases. The rate of compensation increase is not applicable to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans as benefit accruals ceased December 31, 2007 for all participants. Mortality rate assumptions are based on life expectancy and death rates for different types of participants. Mortality rates are periodically updated based on actual experience. In the U.S., the Society of Actuaries released new mortality tables in 2014 and updated them in 2015 and 2016. The company utilized these tables in its plan remeasurements at December 31, 2016 and 2015. For the U.S. retirement-related plans, the change in mortality assumptions resulted in a decrease to the plan benefit obligations of $0.6 billion and a decrease of $0.7 billion at December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively.  
     
   Interest Crediting Rate   
     
  Benefits for certain participants in the PPP are calculated using a cash balance formula. An assumption underlying this formula is an interest crediting rate, which impacts both net periodic (income)/cost and the PBO. This assumption provides a basis for projecting the expected interest rate that participants will earn on the benefits that they are expected to receive in the following year and is based on the average from August to October of the one-year U.S. Treasury Constant Maturity yield plus one percent.  
     
  For the PPP, the change in the interest crediting rate to 1.3 percent for the year ended December 31, 2016 from 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015 resulted in a decrease in 2016 net periodic income of $7 million. The interest crediting rate of 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2015, was unchanged from December 31, 2014 and therefore, had no impact on the decrease in 2015 net periodic income. The change in the interest crediting rate to 1.1 percent for the year ended December 31, 2014, from 1.2 percent for the year ended December 31, 2013, resulted in an increase in 2014 net periodic income of $8 million.  
     
 143   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Healthcare Cost Trend Rate   
     
  For nonpension postretirement benefit plan accounting, the company reviews external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates. However, the healthcare cost trend rate has an insignificant effect on plan costs and obligations as a result of the terms of the plan which limit the company s obligation to the participants. The company assumes that the healthcare cost trend rate for 2017 will be 6.75 percent. In addition, the company assumes that the same trend rate will decrease to 5 percent over the next seven years. A one percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would not have had a material effect on 2016, 2015 and 2014 net periodic cost or the benefit obligations as of December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
     
   Plan Assets   
     
  Retirement-related benefit plan assets are recognized and measured at fair value. Because of the inherent uncertainty of valuations, these fair value measurements may not necessarily reflect the amounts the company could realize in current market transactions.  
     
   Investment Policies and Strategies   
     
  The investment objectives of the Qualified PPP portfolio are designed to generate returns that will enable the plan to meet its future obligations. The precise amount for which these obligations will be settled depends on future events, including the retirement dates and life expectancy of the plans  participants. The obligations are estimated using actuarial assumptions, based on the current economic environment and other pertinent factors described on pages 142 through 143. The Qualified PPP portfolio s investment strategy balances the requirement to generate returns, using potentially higher yielding assets such as equity securities, with the need to control risk in the portfolio with less volatile assets, such as fixed-income securities. Risks include, among others, inflation, volatility in equity values and changes in interest rates that could cause the plan to become underfunded, thereby increasing its dependence on contributions from the company. To mitigate any potential concentration risk, careful consideration is given to balancing the portfolio among industry sectors, companies and geographies, taking into account interest rate sensitivity, dependence on economic growth, currency and other factors that affect investment returns. In 2016, the company changed its investment strategy, modifying the target asset allocation, primarily by reducing equity securities and increasing debt securities. This change was designed to reduce the potential negative impact that equity markets might have on the funded status of the plan. The Qualified PPP portfolio s target allocation is 70 percent fixed-income securities, 20 percent equity securities, 5 percent real estate and 5 percent other investments.  
     
  The assets are managed by professional investment firms and investment professionals who are employees of the company. They are bound by investment mandates determined by the company s management and are measured against specific benchmarks. Among these managers, consideration is given, but not limited to, balancing security concentration, issuer concentration, investment style and reliance on particular active and passive investment strategies.  
     
  Market liquidity risks are tightly controlled, with $5,010 million of the Qualified PPP portfolio as of December 31, 2016 invested in private market assets consisting of private equities and private real estate investments, which are less liquid than publicly traded securities. In addition, the Qualified PPP portfolio had $2,142 million in commitments for future investments in private markets to be made over a number of years. These commitments are expected to be funded from plan assets.  
     
  Derivatives are used as an effective means to achieve investment objectives and/or as a component of the plan s risk management strategy. The primary reasons for the use of derivatives are fixed income management, including duration, interest rate management and credit exposure, cash equitization and to manage currency and commodity strategies.  
     
  Outside the U.S., the investment objectives are similar to those described above, subject to local regulations. The weighted-average target allocation for the non-U.S. plans is 25 percent equity securities, 60 percent fixed-income securities, 3 percent real estate and 12 percent other investments, which is consistent with the allocation decisions made by the company s management. In some countries, a higher percentage allocation to fixed income is required to manage solvency and funding risks. In others, the responsibility for managing the investments typically lies with a board that may include up to 50 percent of members elected by employees and retirees. This can result in slight differences compared with the strategies previously described. Generally, these non-U.S. plans do not invest in illiquid assets and their use of derivatives is consistent with the U.S. plan and mainly for currency hedging, interest rate risk management, credit exposure and alternative investment strategies.  
     
  The company s nonpension postretirement benefit plans are underfunded or unfunded. For some plans, the company maintains a nominal, highly liquid trust fund balance to ensure timely benefit payments.  
     
 144   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets   
     
  The following table presents the company s defined benefit pension plans  asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2016. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $28 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $15 million, representing 0.04 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. 
  (2)            Invests in predominantly equity securities 
  (3)            Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies 
  (4)            The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $4 million, representing 0.01 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.003 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. 
  (5)            Invests predominantly in fixed income securities 
  (6)            Includes cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities 
  (7)            Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives 
  (8)            Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities 
  (9)            Investments measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, including commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships 
  (10)     Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets 
     
 145   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $26 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $71 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
  The following table presents the company s defined benefit pension plans  asset classes and their associated fair value at December 31, 2015. The U.S. Plan consists of the Qualified PPP and the non-U.S. Plans consist of all plans sponsored by the company s subsidiaries. In the following table, some Level 2 and Level 3 assets have been reclassified to reflect the FASB guidance removing investments using NAV as a practical expedient from the fair value hierarchy. The December 31, 2015 Level 3 reconciliation tables have also been reclassified to reflect this change. Refer to note B,  Accounting Changes,  for additional information.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

(1)            Represents U.S. and international securities. The U.S. Plan includes IBM common stock of $34 million, representing 0.1 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. Plans include IBM common stock of $14 million, representing 0.04 percent of the non-U.S. Plans assets. 
  (2)            Invests in predominantly equity securities 
  (3)            Includes debt issued by national, state and local governments and agencies 
  (4)            The U.S. Plan includes IBM corporate bonds of $23 million, representing 0.04 percent of the U.S. Plan assets. Non-U.S. plans include IBM corporate bonds of $1 million representing 0.004 percent of the non-U.S. Plan assets. 
  (5)            Invests in predominantly fixed-income securities 
  (6)            Includes cash and cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities 
  (7)            Includes interest rate derivatives, forwards, exchange traded and other over-the-counter derivatives 
  (8)            Invests in both equity and fixed-income securities 
  (9)            Investments measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient, including commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships 
  (10)     Represents net unsettled transactions, relating primarily to purchases and sales of plan assets 
     
  The U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $71 million were invested in cash, categorized as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy. The non-U.S. nonpension postretirement benefit plan assets of $59 million, primarily in Brazil, and, to a lesser extent, in Mexico and South Africa, were invested primarily in government and related fixed-income securities and corporate bonds, categorized as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy.  
     
 146   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 for the U.S. Plan.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

($ in millions)  

The following tables present the reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of Level 3 assets for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 for the non-U.S. Plans.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

147   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

Valuation Techniques   
     
  The following is a description of the valuation techniques used to measure plan assets at fair value. There were no changes in valuation techniques during 2016 and 2015.  
     
  Equity securities are valued at the closing price reported on the stock exchange on which the individual securities are traded. IBM common stock is valued at the closing price reported on the New York Stock Exchange. Mutual funds are typically valued based on quoted market prices. These assets are generally classified as Level 1.  
     
  The fair value of fixed-income securities is typically estimated using pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flows and are generally classified as Level 2. If available, they are valued using the closing price reported on the major market on which the individual securities are traded.  
     
  Cash includes money market accounts that are valued at their cost plus interest on a daily basis, which approximates fair value. Short-term investments represent securities with original maturities of one year or less. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2.  
     
  Real estate valuations require significant judgment due to the absence of quoted market prices, the inherent lack of liquidity and the long-term nature of such assets. These assets are initially valued at cost and are reviewed periodically utilizing available and relevant market data, including appraisals, to determine if the carrying value of these assets should be adjusted. These assets are classified as Level 3.  
     
  Exchange traded derivatives are valued at the closing price reported on the exchange on which the individual securities are traded, while forward contracts are valued using a mid-close price. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued using pricing models. The models require a variety of inputs, including, for example, yield curves, credit curves, measures of volatility and foreign exchange rates. These assets are classified as Level 1 or Level 2 depending on availability of quoted market prices.  
     
  Certain investments are measured at fair value using the net asset value (NAV) per share (or its equivalent) as a practical expedient. These investments, which include commingled funds, hedge funds, private equity and real estate partnerships, are typically valued using the net asset value (NAV) provided by the administrator of the fund and reviewed by the company. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying assets owned by the fund, minus liabilities and divided by the number of shares or units outstanding. In accordance with FASB guidance, these investments have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. Refer to note B,  Accounting Changes.   
     
   Contributions   
     
   Defined Benefit Pension Plans   
     
  It is the company s general practice to fund amounts for pensions sufficient to meet the minimum requirements set forth in applicable employee benefits laws and local tax laws. From time to time, the company contributes additional amounts as it deems appropriate.  
     
  The company contributed $169 million in cash and $295 million in U.S. Treasury Securities to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans as well as $43 million in cash to multi-employer plans for the year ended December 31, 2016. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. For the year ended December 31, 2015, the company contributed $474 million in cash to non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans and $40 million in cash to multi-employer plans. The cash contributions to multi-employer plans represent the annual cost included in net periodic (income)/cost recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The company s participation in multi-employer plans has no material impact on the company s financial statements.  
     
  In 2017, the company is not legally required to make any contributions to the U.S. defined benefit pension plans. However, depending on market conditions, or other factors, the company may elect to make discretionary contributions to the Qualified PPP during the year.  
     
  The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (the Act), enacted into law in 2006, is a comprehensive reform package that, among other provisions, increases pension funding requirements for certain U.S. defined benefit plans, provides guidelines for measuring pension plan assets and pension obligations for funding purposes and raises tax deduction limits for contributions to retirement-related benefit plans. The additional funding requirements by the Act apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2007. The Act was updated by the Worker, Retiree and Employer Recovery Act of 2008, which revised the funding requirements in the Act by clarifying that pension plans may smooth the value of pension plans over 24 months. At December 31, 2016, no mandatory contribution was required for 2017.  
     
  In 2017, the company estimates contributions to its non-U.S. defined benefit and multi-employer plans to be approximately $500 million, the largest of which will be contributed to defined benefit pension plans in the UK, Japan and Spain. This amount represents the legally mandated minimum contributions.  
     
 148   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  Financial market performance in 2017 could increase the legally mandated minimum contribution in certain countries which require monthly or daily remeasurement of the funded status. The company could also elect to contribute more than the legally mandated amount based on market conditions or other factors.  
     
  Defined Contribution Plans  
     
  The company contributed $1,046 million and $1,117 million in cash to the defined contribution plans during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. In 2017, the company estimates cash contributions to the defined contribution plans to be approximately $1.0 billion.  
     
   Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plans   
     
  The company contributed $305 million and $408 million to the nonpension postretirement benefit plans during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. The $305 million contribution in 2016 consisted of $80 million in cash and $225 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The $408 million contribution in 2015 consisted of $328 million in cash and $80 million in U.S. Treasury securities. The contribution of U.S. Treasury securities is considered a non-cash transaction in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows.  
     
   Expected Benefit Payments   
     
  Defined Benefit Pension Plan Expected Payments  
     
  The following table presents the total expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans  PBO at December 31, 2016 and include benefits attributable to estimated future compensation increases, where applicable.  

($ in millions)              

The 2017 expected benefit payments to defined benefit pension plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets (underfunded plans) represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
  Nonpension Postretirement Benefit Plan Expected Payments  
     
  The following table reflects the total expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants. These payments have been estimated based on the same assumptions used to measure the plans  APBO at December 31, 2016.  

($ in millions)              

The 2017 expected benefit payments to nonpension postretirement benefit plan participants not covered by the respective plan assets represent a component of compensation and benefits, within current liabilities, in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position.  
     
   Other Plan Information   
     
  The following table presents information for defined benefit pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations (ABO) in excess of plan assets. For a more detailed presentation of the funded status of the company s defined benefit pension plans, see the table on page 140.  
     
 149   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE T. SEGMENT INFORMATION   
     
  In January 2016, the company made a number of changes to its organizational structure and management system consistent with its ongoing transformation to a cognitive solutions and cloud platform business. With these changes, the company updated its reportable segments. The company filed a recast 2015 Annual Report in a Form 8-K on June 13, 2016 to recast its historical segment information to reflect these changes. The company s five reportable segments are as follows:  
     
  The Cognitive Solutions segment includes solutions units that address many of the company s strategic areas, including analytics, commerce and security, several of the new initiatives around Watson Platform, Watson Health, Watson Internet of Things and Transaction Processing Software. The Technology Services   Cloud Platforms segment includes the company s cloud infrastructure and platform capabilities, the previously reported Global Technology Services business and Integration Software. Operating Systems Software has been aligned with the underlying hardware platforms in the Systems segment. The Global Business Services and Global Financing segments remain unchanged.  
     
  The company also realigned a portion of its software support revenue, which was previously managed and reported in Integrated Technology Services within Global Technology Services, to the underlying software product areas.  
     
  The segments represent components of the company for which separate financial information is available that is utilized on a regular basis by the chief operating decision maker (the chief executive officer) in determining how to allocate resources and evaluate performance. The segments are determined based on several factors, including client base, homogeneity of products, technology, delivery channels and similar economic characteristics.  
     
  Information about each segment s business and the products and services that generate each segment s revenue is located in the  Description of Business  section on pages 32 to 34, and in the  Segment Details,  on pages 36 to 41 in the Management Discussion.  
     
  Segment revenue and pre-tax income include transactions between the segments that are intended to reflect an arm s-length, market-based transfer price. Systems that are used by Technology Services   Cloud Platforms in outsourcing engagements are primarily sourced internally from the Systems segment and software is sourced from various segments. Software used by Technology Services   Cloud Platforms on external engagements is sourced internally through Cognitive Solutions and the Systems segments. For providing IT services that are used internally, Technology Services   Cloud Platforms and Global Business Services recover cost, as well as a reasonable fee, that is intended to reflect the arm s-length value of providing the services. They enter into arm s-length loans at prices equivalent to market rates with Global Financing to facilitate the acquisition of equipment and software used in services engagements. All internal transaction prices are reviewed annually, and reset if appropriate.  
     
  The company utilizes globally integrated support organizations to realize economies of scale and efficient use of resources. As a result, a considerable amount of expense is shared by all of the segments. This shared expense includes sales coverage, certain marketing functions and support functions such as Accounting, Treasury, Procurement, Legal, Human Resources and Billing and Collections. Where practical, shared expenses are allocated based on measurable drivers of expense, e.g., headcount. When a clear and measurable driver cannot be identified, shared expenses are allocated on a financial basis that is consistent with the company s management system, e.g., advertising expense is allocated based on the gross profits of the segments. A portion of the shared expenses, which are recorded in net income, are not allocated to the segments. These expenses are associated with the elimination of internal transactions and other miscellaneous items.  
     
  The following tables reflect the results of continuing operations of the company s segments consistent with the management and measurement system utilized within the company. Performance measurement is based on pre-tax income from continuing operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker, both in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.  
     
 150   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Management System Segment View   

($ in millions)              

151   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Reconciliations of IBM as Reported   

($ in millions)              

($ in millions)              

*         The 2014 amount includes the gain related to the Retail Store Solutions divestiture and the net gain related to the System x business divestiture. 
     
  **      Reclassified to conform to 2016 presentation. 
     
   Immaterial Items   
     
   Investment in Equity Alliances and   
     
   Equity Alliances Gains/(Losses)   
     
  The investments in equity alliances and the resulting gains and (losses) from these investments that are attributable to the segments did not have a material effect on the financial position or the financial results of the segments.  
     
   Segment Assets and Other Items   
     
  Cognitive Solutions assets are mainly goodwill, acquired intangible assets and accounts receivable. Global Business Services assets are primarily goodwill and accounts receivable. Technology Services   Cloud Platforms assets are primarily goodwill, plant, property and equipment including the assets associated with the outsourcing business, deferred services arrangement transition costs, accounts receivable and acquired intangible assets. Systems assets are primarily goodwill, plant, property and equipment, and manufacturing inventory. Global Financing assets are primarily financing receivables, cash and marketable securities, and fixed assets under operating leases.  
     
  To ensure the efficient use of the company s space and equipment, several segments may share plant, property and equipment assets. Where assets are shared, landlord ownership of the assets is assigned to one segment and is not allocated to each user   
  segment. This is consistent with the company s management system and is reflected accordingly in the table on page 153. In those cases, there will not be a precise correlation between segment pre-tax income and segment assets.  
     
  Similarly, the depreciation amounts reported by each segment are based on the assigned landlord ownership and may not be consistent with the amounts that are included in the segments  pre-tax income. The amounts that are included in pre-tax income reflect occupancy charges from the landlord segment and are not specifically identified by the management reporting system. Capital expenditures that are reported by each segment also are consistent with the landlord ownership basis of asset assignment.  
     
  Global Financing amounts for interest income and interest expense reflect the interest income and interest expense associated with the Global Financing business, including the intercompany financing activities discussed on page 34, as well as the income from investment in cash and marketable securities. The explanation of the difference between cost of financing and interest expense for segment presentation versus presentation in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings is included on page 80 of the Management Discussion.  
     
 152   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Management System Segment View   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Segment pre-tax income from continuing operations does not include the amortization of intangible assets. 
     
 153   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Reconciliations of IBM as Reported   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Major Clients   
     
  No single client represented 10 percent or more of the company s total revenue in 2016, 2015 or 2014.  
     
   Geographic Information   
     
  The following provides information for those countries that are 10 percent or more of the specific category.  
     
   Revenue*   
     
  ($ in millions)  

*             Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the client. 
     
   Plant and Other Property Net   
     
  ($ in millions)  

Revenue by Classes of Similar Products     or Services  
     
  The following table presents external revenue for similar classes of products or services within the company s reportable segments. Client solutions often include IBM software and systems and other suppliers  products if the client solution requires it. For each of the segments that include services; Software-as-a-Service, consulting, education, training and other product-related services are included as services. For each of these segments, software includes product license charges and ongoing subscriptions.  
     
  ($ in millions)  

NOTE U. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS   
     
  On January 31, 2017, the company announced that the Board of Directors approved a quarterly dividend of $1.40 per common share. The dividend is payable March 10, 2017 to shareholders of record on February 10, 2017.  
     
  On January 24, 2017, the company issued $2.75 billion in bonds as follows: $500 million of 3-year floating-rate bonds priced at LIBOR plus 23 basis points, $750 million of 3-year fixed-rate bonds with a 1.9 percent coupon, $1.0 billion of 5-year fixed-rate bonds with a 2.5 percent coupon and $500 million of 10-year fixed-rate bonds with a 3.3 percent coupon.  
     
 154   

Five-Year Comparison of Selected Financial Data   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts)  

*             Refer to the  GAAP Reconciliation,  on page 63 of the company s 2014 Annual Report for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2013 and 2012. Also see  GAAP Reconciliation,  on pages 48, 49 and 66 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for 2016, 2015 and 2014. 
     
 155   

Selected Quarterly Data   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
  ($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices)  

($ in millions except per share amounts and stock prices)  

*       

Refer to page 71 of the company s first-quarter   2016 Form 10-Q filed on April 26, 2016, page 87 of the   company s second-quarter 2016 Form 10-Q filed on July 26, 2016,   page 87 of the company s third-quarter 2016 Form 10-Q filed on   October 25, 2016, and page 55 under the heading  GAAP   Reconciliation  for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information for   the quarterly periods of 2016 and 2015. Also see  GAAP Reconciliation,  on   pages 48 and 49 for the reconciliation of non-GAAP financial information   for full-year 2016 and 2015.           

**       

Earnings Per Share (EPS) in each quarter is computed   using the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during that quarter   while EPS for the full year is computed using the weighted-average number of   shares outstanding during the year. Thus, the sum of the four quarters  EPS   does not equal the full-year EPS.           

++       

The stock prices reflect the high and low prices for   IBM s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape for the   periods presented.              
     
 156   

Performance Graph   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   Comparison of Five- and Ten-Year Cumulative Total Return for IBM, S P 500 Stock Index and S P Information Technology Index   
     
  The following graphs compare the five- and ten-year cumulative total returns for IBM common stock with the comparable cumulative return of certain Standard   Poor s (S P) indices. Due to the fact that IBM is a company included in the S P 500 Stock Index, the SEC s rules require the use of that index for the required five-year graph. Under those rules, the second index used for comparison may be a published industry or line-of-business index. The S P Information Technology Index is such an index. IBM is also included in this index.  
     
  Each graph assumes $100 invested on December 31 (of the initial year shown in the graph) in IBM common stock and $100 invested on the same date in each of the S P indices. The comparisons assume that all dividends are reinvested.  

157   

Board of Directors and Senior Leadership   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  

BOARD   OF DIRECTORS        

Kenneth   I. Chenault   
  Chairman and   Chief Executive Officer  
   American   Express Company   
       
   Michael   L. Eskew   
  Retired Chairman   and  
  Chief Executive   Officer  
   United   Parcel Service, Inc.   
       
   David   N. Farr   
  Chairman and   Chief Executive Officer  
   Emerson   Electric Co.   
       
   Mark   Fields   
  President and   Chief Executive Officer  
   Ford   Motor Company   
       
   Alex   Gorsky   
  Chairman and   Chief Executive Officer  
   Johnson     Johnson        
 
   Shirley   Ann Jackson   
  President  
   Rensselaer   Polytechnic Institute   
       
   Andrew   N. Liveris   
  Chairman and   Chief Executive Officer  
   The   Dow Chemical Company   
       
   W.   James McNerney, Jr.   
  Retired Chairman   and     Chief Executive Officer  
   The   Boeing Company   
       
   Hutham   S. Olayan   
  President and Chief Executive Officer,  
   Olayan America, and  Principal, Director and Senior Executive  
   The   Olayan Group   
       
   James   W. Owens   
  Retired Chairman   and  
  Chief Executive Officer  
   Caterpillar Inc.        
 
   Virginia   M. Rometty   
  Chairman,   President and  
  Chief Executive   Officer  
   IBM   
       
   Joan E.   Spero*   
  Adjunct Senior   Research Scholar  
   Columbia   University School of International and Public Affairs   
       
   Sidney   Taurel   
  Chairman  
   Pearson   plc   
       
   Peter   R. Voser   
  Chairman  
   ABB Ltd.            

SENIOR   LEADERSHIP        

Simon   J. Beaumont   
  Vice President  
   Tax and   Treasurer   
       
   Michelle   H. Browdy   
  Senior Vice   President  
   Legal   and Regulatory Affairs,   
   and   General Counsel   
       
   Erich   Clementi   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Global Markets   
       
   Robert   F. Del Bene   
  Vice President   and Controller  
       
   Bruno   V. Di Leo Allen   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Global Markets   
       
   Mark   Foster   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Global Business Services   
       
   Diane   J. Gherson   
  Senior Vice   President  
   Human   Resources   
       
   Jon C.   Iwata   
  Senior Vice   President  
   Marketing   and Communications        
 
   Martin   Jetter   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Global Technology Services   
       
   James   J. Kavanaugh   
  Senior Vice   President  
   Transformation   and Operations   
       
   John E.   Kelly III   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Cognitive Solutions   
   and IBM   Research   
       
   David   W. Kenny   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Watson and   
   IBM   Cloud Platform   
       
   Kenneth   M. Keverian   
  Senior Vice   President  
   Corporate   Strategy   
       
   Arvind   Krishna   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Hybrid Cloud and   
   Director   of IBM Research   
       
   Robert   J. LeBlanc   
  Senior Vice   President       
 
   Christina   M. Montgomery   
  Vice President  
   Assistant   General Counsel   
   and   Secretary   
       
   Robert   J. Picciano   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Cognitive Systems   
       
   Michael   D. Rhodin   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Watson Business Development   
       
   Virginia   M. Rometty   
  Chairman,   President and  
  Chief Executive   Officer  
       
   Thomas   W. Rosamilia   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Systems   
       
   Martin   J. Schroeter   
  Senior Vice   President and  
  Chief Financial   Officer  
       
   Bridget   A. van Kralingen   
  Senior Vice   President  
   IBM   Industry Platforms               

*             Term on the Board ends on April 25, 2017. 
     
 158   

Stockholder Information   
  International Business Machines Corporation and Subsidiary Companies  
     
   IBM Stockholder Services   
     
  Stockholders with questions about their accounts should contact:  
     
  Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43078, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3078 (888) IBM-6700  
     
  Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  
     
  Stockholders can also reach Computershare Trust Company, N.A. via e-mail at: ibm@computershare.com  
     
  Hearing-impaired stockholders with access to a telecommunications device (TDD) can communicate directly with Computershare Trust Company, N.A., by calling (800) 490-1493. Stockholders residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2694.  
     
   IBM on the Internet   
     
  Topics featured in this Annual Report can be found online at www.ibm.com. Financial results, news on IBM products, services and other activities can also be found at that website.  
     
  IBM files reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including the annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and any other filings required by the SEC.  
     
  IBM s website (www.ibm.com/investor) contains a significant amount of information about IBM, including the company s annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and all amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC. These materials are available free of charge on or through our website.  
     
  The public may read and copy any materials the company files with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC.  
     
   Computershare Investment Plan   
   (formerly IBM Investor Services Program)   
     
  The Computershare Investment Plan brochure outlines a number of services provided for IBM stockholders and potential IBM investors, including the reinvestment of dividends, direct purchase and the deposit of IBM stock certificates for safekeeping. Call (888) IBM-6700 for a copy of the brochure. Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  
     
  Investors with other requests may write to: IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504.  
     
   IBM Stock   
     
  IBM common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Chicago Stock Exchange, and outside the United States.  
     
   Stockholder Communications   
     
  Stockholders can get quarterly financial results, a summary of the Annual Meeting remarks, and voting results from the meeting by calling (914) 499-7777, by sending an e-mail to infoibm@us.ibm.com, or by writing to IBM Stockholder Relations, New Orchard Road, M/D 325, Armonk, New York 10504.  
     
   Annual Meeting   
     
  The IBM Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Tuesday, April 25, 2017, at 10 a.m. at the Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel   Marina, Tampa, Florida.  
     
   Literature for IBM Stockholders   
     
  The literature mentioned below on IBM is available without charge from:  
     
  Computershare Trust Company, N.A., P.O. Box 43078, Providence, Rhode Island 02940-3078 (888) IBM-6700.  
     
  Investors residing outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico should call (781) 575-2727.  
     
  The company s annual report on Form 10-K and the quarterly reports on Form 10-Q provide additional information on IBM s business. The 10-K report is released by the end of February; 10-Q reports are released by early May, August and November.  
     
  An audio recording of the 2016 Annual Report will be available for sight-impaired stockholders in June 2017.  
     
  The IBM Corporate Responsibility Report highlights IBM s values and its integrated approach to corporate responsibility, including its innovative strategies to transform communities through global citizenship. The full Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.ibm.com/responsibility. It is also available in printed form by downloading the report at www.ibm. com/responsibility.  
     
   General Information   
     
  Stockholders of record can receive account information and answers to frequently asked questions regarding stockholder accounts online at www.ibm.com/investor. Stockholders of record can also consent to receive future IBM Annual Reports and Proxy Statements online through this site.  
     
  For answers to general questions about IBM from within the continental United States, call (800) IBM-4YOU. From outside the United States, Canada and Puerto Rico, call (914) 499-1900.  
     
 159   

International Business Machines Corporation  
     
  New Orchard Road, Armonk, New York 10504  
     
  (914) 499-1900  
     
  AIX, AlchemyAI, Aspera, Blekko, Blue Box, Bluemix, Bluewolf, Clearleap, Cleversafe, Cloudant, Explorys, Gravitant, IBM, IBM Flex Systems, IBM MobilFirst, IBM Watson, Kenexa, Merge Healthcare, OpenPOWER, Phytel, POWER, Power Systems, Resilient, The Weather Company, Silverpop, StrongLoop, Ustream, Watson, Watson Health, Watson IoT, z/OS and z System are trademarks or registered trademarks of International Business Machines Corporation or its wholly owned subsidiaries. GLOBALFOUNDRIES is a registered trademark of GLOBALFOUNDRIES Inc. Lenovo is a trademark of Lenovo Group Limited in the United States, other countries, or both. Linux is a registered trademark of Linus Torvalds in the United States, other countries, or both. UNIX is a registered trademark of the Open Group in the United States and other countries. Other company, product and service names may be trademarks or service marks of others.  
     
  The IBM Annual Report is printed on recycled paper and is recyclable.  
     
  Printed in the U.S.A.                                     COL03002-USEN-16 
     
  Design: Havas               Printing: RR Donnelley  

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 10
 a2230222zex-21.htm
 EX-21

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

EXHIBIT 21            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES            

Subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2016   

Company Name

State or country of 
incorporation or organization    
     
   Voting percent owned directly or indirectly by registrant    

IBM Argentina Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada  
     
  Argentina  

100  

IBM Australia Limited  
     
  Australia  

100  

IBM Global Financing Australia Limited  
     
  Australia  

100  

IBM Oesterreich Internationale Bueromaschinen Gesellschaft m.b.H.   
     
  Austria  

100  

IBM Bahamas Limited  
     
  Bahamas  

100  

IBM Bahrain SPC  
     
  Bahrain  

100  

IBM Bangladesh Private Limited  
     
  Bangladesh  

100  

IBM Belgium Financial Services Company sprl/bvba  
     
  Belgium  

100  

International Business Machines of Belgium sprl/buba  
     
  Belgium  

100  

WTC Insurance Corporation, Ltd.   
     
  Bermuda  

100  

IBM Brasil Industria, Maquinas e Servicos Limitada  
     
  Brazil  

100  

Banco IBM S.A.   
     
  Brazil  

100  

IBM Bulgaria Ltd.   
     
  Bulgaria  

100  

IBM Burkina Faso SARL  
     
  Burkina Faso  

100  

IBM Canada Limited IBM Canada Limitee  
     
  Canada  

100  

IBM Global Financing Canada Corporation  
     
  Canada  

100  

IBM Tchad SARLU  
     
  Chad  

100  

IBM de Chile S.A.C.   
     
  Chile  

100  

IBM Global Financing de Chile SpA  
     
  Chile  

100  

IBM (China) Investment Company Limited  
     
  China (P.R.C.)  

100  

IBM (China) Co., Ltd.   
     
  China (P.R.C.)  

100  

IBM Factoring (China) Co., Ltd.   
     
  China (PRC)  

100  

IBM de Colombia   C.I.A. S.C.A.   
     
  Colombia  

100  

IBM Congo SARL  
     
  Congo  

100  

IBM RDC  
     
  Congo Republic  

100  

IBM Business Transformation Center, S.r.l.   
     
  Costa Rica  

100  

IBM Croatia Ltd./IBM Hrvatska d.o.o.   
     
  Croatia  

100  

IBM Ceska Republika spol. s.r.o.   
     
  Czech Republic  

100  

IBM Danmark ApS  
     
  Denmark  

100  

IBM Global Financing Danmark ApS  
     
  Denmark  

100  

IBM del Ecuador, C.A.   
     
  Ecuador  

100  

IBM Egypt Business Support Services  
     
  Egypt  

100  

IBM Eesti Osauhing (IBM Estonia Ou)  
     
  Estonia  

100  

IBM Global Financing Finland Oy  
     
  Finland  

100  

Oy IBM Finland AB  
     
  Finland  

100  

Compagnie IBM France, S.A.S.   
     
  France  

100  

IBM France Financement, S.A.   
     
  France  

100  

International Business Machines Gabon SARL  
     
  Gabon  

100  

IBM Deutschland GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

IBM Deutschland Kreditbank GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

IBM Global Financing Deutschland GmbH  
     
  Germany  

100  

International Business Machines Ghana Limited  
     
  Ghana  

100  

IBM Hellas Information Handling Systems S.A.   
     
  Greece  

100  

IBM China/Hong Kong Limited  
     
  Hong Kong  

100  

IBM Magyarorszagi Kft.   
     
  Hungary  

100  

IBM India Private Limited  
     
  India  

100  

PT IBM Indonesia  
     
  Indonesia  

100  

IBM Ireland Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

IBM Ireland Product Distribution Limited  
     
  Ireland  

100  

Company Name

State or country of 
incorporation or organization    
     
   Voting percent owned directly or indirectly by registrant    

IBM Israel Limited  
     
  Israel  

100  

IBM Capital Italia S.r.l.   
     
  Italy  

100  

IBM Italia Servizi Finanziari S.r.l.   
     
  Italy  

100  

IBM Italia S.p.A.   
     
  Italy  

100  

IBM Japan Credit LLC  
     
  Japan  

100  

IBM Japan, Ltd.   
     
  Japan  

100  

IBM East Africa Limited  
     
  Kenya  

100  

IBM Global Financing Korea Limited  
     
  Korea (South)  

100  

IBM Korea, Inc.   
     
  Korea (South)  

100  

IBM Kuwait SPC  
     
  Kuwait  

100  

Sabiedriba ar irobezotu atbildibu IBM Latvija  
     
  Latvia  

100  

IBM Lietuva  
     
  Lithuania  

100  

IBM Services Financial Sector Luxembourg Sarl  
     
  Luxembourg  

100  

International Business Machines Madagascar SARLU  
     
  Madagascar  

100  

International Information Services Management Limited  
     
  Malawi  

100  

IBM CAPITAL MALAYSIA SDN. BHD.   
     
  Malaysia  

100  

IBM Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.   
     
  Malaysia  

100  

IBM Malta Limited  
     
  Malta  

100  

IBM Mauritius  
     
  Mauritius  

100  

IBM Capital Mexico I, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico  

100  

IBM de Mexico, S. de R.L.   
     
  Mexico  

100  

IBM de Mexico, Comercializacion y Servicios S. de R.L. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico  

100  

IBM Maroc  
     
  Morocco  

100  

IBM International Group B.V.   
     
  Netherlands  

100  

IBM Nederland Financieringen B.V.   
     
  Netherlands  

100  

IBM Nederland B.V.   
     
  Netherlands  

100  

IBM New Zealand Limited  
     
  New Zealand  

100  

IBM Niger SARLU  
     
  Niger  

100  

International Business Machines West Africa Limited  
     
  Nigeria  

100  

IBM Finans Norge AS  
     
  Norway  

100  

International Business Machines AS  
     
  Norway  

100  

IBM Capital Peru S.A.C.   
     
  Peru  

100  

IBM del Peru, S.A.   
     
  Peru  

100  

IBM Philippines, Incorporated  
     
  Philippines  

100  

IBM Global Financing Polska Sp.z.o.o.   
     
  Poland  

100  

IBM Polska Sp.z.o.o.   
     
  Poland  

100  

Companhia IBM Portuguesa, S.A.   
     
  Portugal  

100  

IBM Qatar SSC  
     
  Qatar  

100  

IBM Romania Srl  
     
  Romania  

100  

IBM East Europe/Asia Ltd.   
     
  Russia  

100  

International Business Machines Senegal  
     
  Senegal  

100  

IBM International Business Machines d.o.o., Belgrade  
     
  Serbia  

100  

International Information Services Management Limited  
     
  Seychelles  

100  

IBM Limited  
     
  Sierra Leone  

100  

IBM CAPITAL SINGAPORE PTE. LTD.   
     
  Singapore  

100  

IBM Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
     
  Singapore  

100  

IBM Slovensko spol s.r.o.   
     
  Slovak Republic  

100  

IBM Slovenija d.o.o.   
     
  Slovenia  

100  

IBM Global Financing South Africa (Pty) Ltd  
     
  South Africa  

100  

IBM South Africa (Pty) Ltd.   
     
  South Africa  

100  

IBM Global Financing Espa a, S.L.U.   
     
  Spain  

100  

IBM Global Services Espa a, S.A.   
     
  Spain  

100  

International Business Machines, S.A.   
     
  Spain  

100  

IBM Global Financing Sweden AB  
     
  Sweden  

100  

IBM Svenska Aktiebolag  
     
  Sweden  

100  

Company Name

State or country of 
incorporation or organization    
     
   Voting percent owned directly or indirectly by registrant    

IBM Global Financing Schweiz GmbH  
     
  Switzerland  

100  

IBM Schweiz AG IBM Suisse SA IBM Suizzera SA IBM Switzerland Ltd.   
     
  Switzerland  

100  

IBM Taiwan Corporation  
     
  Taiwan  

100  

IBM Tanzania Limited  
     
  Tanzania  

100  

IBM Capital (Thailand) Company Limited  
     
  Thailand  

100  

IBM Thailand Company Limited  
     
  Thailand  

100  

IBM Tunisie  
     
  Tunisia  

100  

IBM (International Business Machines) Turk Limited Sirketi  
     
  Turkey  

100  

Technology Products and Services Limited  
     
  Uganda  

100  

IBM Ukraine  
     
  Ukraine  

100  

IBM Middle East FZ LLC  
     
  United Arab Emirates  

100  

IBM United Kingdom Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

IBM United Kingdom Asset Leasing Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

IBM United Kingdom Financial Services Limited  
     
  United Kingdom  

100  

IBM del Uruguay, S.A.   
     
  Uruguay  

100  

IBM Capital Inc.   
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM Credit LLC  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM International Group Capital LLC  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM International Foundation  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM World Trade Corporation  
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

Softlayer Technologies, Inc.   
     
  USA (Delaware)  

100  

IBM de Venezuela, S.A.   
     
  Venezuela  

100  

IBM Vietnam Company  
     
  Vietnam  

100  

International Business Machines Zambia Limited  
     
  Zambia  

100  

QuickLinks    
 
  EXHIBIT 21   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES   

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 11
 a2230222zex-23_1.htm
 EX-23.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 23.1            

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM            

          We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 2-77235, 33-29022, 33-33458,
33-34406, 33-53777, 33-60225, 33-60227, 33-60237, 33-60815, 333-01411, 33-52931, 33-33590, 333-76914, 333-87708, 333-09055, 333-23315, 333-31305, 333-41813, 333-44981, 333-48435, 333-81157, 333-87751,
333-87859, 333-87925, 333-30424, 333-33692, 333-36510, 333-102872, 333-102870, 333-103471, 333-104806, 333-114190, 333-131934, 333-138326, 333-138327, 333-148964, 333-170559 and 333-171968, 333-76914
and 333-196722) and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 33-49475(1), 33-31732, 333-03763, 333-27669, 333-32690, 333-101034, 333-212685 and 333-212685-01) of International Business
Machines Corporation of our report dated February 28, 2017, relating to the consolidated financial statements and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in the 2016 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference of our report dated
February 28, 2017, relating to the Financial Statement Schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.   

  /s/
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP   

  PricewaterhouseCoopers
LLP 
New York, New York 
February 28, 2017   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 23.1   
 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 12
 a2230222zex-24_1.htm
 EX-24.1

Exhibit 24.1   
     
   POWER OF ATTORNEY OF VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Virginia M. Rometty           

Virginia M. Rometty           

Chairman, President and           

Chief Executive Officer              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF MARTIN J. SCHROETER   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, and Virginia M. Rometty, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Martin J. Schroeter           

Martin J. Schroeter           

Senior Vice President and           

Chief Financial Officer              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF ROBERT F. DEL BENE   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Vice President and Controller of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Robert F. Del Bene           

Robert F. Del Bene           

Vice President and Controller              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Kenneth I. Chenault           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Michael L. Eskew           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ David N. Farr           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Mark Fields           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Alex Gorsky           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Shirley Ann Jackson           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Andrew N. Liveris           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ W. James McNerney, Jr.           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Hutham S. Olayan           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ James W. Owens           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Joan E. Spero           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Sidney Taurel           

Director              

POWER OF ATTORNEY OF IBM DIRECTOR   
     
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that the undersigned Director of International Business Machines Corporation, a New York corporation, which will file with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Washington, D.C., under the provisions of the securities laws, an Annual Report for 2016 on Form 10-K, hereby constitutes and appoints Simon J. Beaumont, Michelle H. Browdy, Robert F. Del Bene, Christina M. Montgomery, Virginia M. Rometty, and Martin J. Schroeter, as true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents for the undersigned, and each of them with full power to act without the others, for the undersigned and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned, in any and all capacities, to sign or cause to be signed electronically said Annual Report on Form 10-K and any and all amendments thereto, and any and all other documents in connection therewith, with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts and things requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  This Power of Attorney may only be revoked by a written document executed by the undersigned that expressly revokes this power by referring to the date and subject hereof.  
     
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Power of Attorney this 28  th  day of February 2017. 

/s/ Peter R. Voser           

Director              

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 13
 a2230222zex-24_2.htm
 EX-24.2

Exhibit 24.2   
     
   RESOLUTION REGARDING   
     
   FILING OF THE COMPANY S 2016 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K   
     
  RESOLVED, that the Company s 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K be, and hereby is, approved and that the Officers of the Company be, and they hereby are, authorized and empowered to execute by powers of attorney the Form 10-K and to make such additions, supplements and changes thereto as in their opinion may be necessary or desirable and to cause such material to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and other appropriate regulatory agencies.  

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 14
 a2230222zex-31_1.htm
 EX-31.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.1            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS 
ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Virginia M. Rometty, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.    

Date:
February 28, 2017   

/s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.1   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 15
 a2230222zex-31_2.htm
 EX-31.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 31.2            

    CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(a)/15D-14(a) OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE 
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002     

  I,
Martin J. Schroeter, certify that:   

1.    I
have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of International Business Machines Corporation;
      2.    Based
on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
      3.    Based
on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;
      4.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act
Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a.    designed
such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared;
      b.    designed
such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;
      c.    evaluated
the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
      d.    disclosed
in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter
(the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting; and
     
   5.    The
registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the
registrant's auditors and the audit committee of registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a.    all
significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and
      b.    any
fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.    

Date:
February 28, 2017   

/s/ MARTIN J. SCHROETER 

Martin J. Schroeter 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 31.2   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 16
 a2230222zex-32_1.htm
 EX-32.1

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.1            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In
connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending December 31, 2016, as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Virginia M. Rometty, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350,
as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ VIRGINIA M. ROMETTY 

Virginia M. Rometty 
Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
February 28, 2017  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.1   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 17
 a2230222zex-32_2.htm
 EX-32.2

QuickLinks  
  -- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document 

Exhibit 32.2            

INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO   18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO   SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002            

          In connection with the Annual Report of International Business Machines Corporation (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the period ending
December 31, 2016, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Martin J. Schroeter, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. ss. 1350, as adopted pursuant to ss. 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   

(1)    The
Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
      (2)    The
information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

/s/ MARTIN J. SCHROETER 

Martin J. Schroeter 
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
February 28, 2017  

A
signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to IBM and will be retained by IBM and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff
upon request.   

QuickLinks    
 
  Exhibit 32.2   
 
  INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 18
 ibm-20161231.xml
 EX-101.INS

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 19
 ibm-20161231.xsd
 EX-101.SCH

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 20
 ibm-20161231_cal.xml
 EX-101.CAL

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 21
 ibm-20161231_def.xml
 EX-101.DEF

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 22
 ibm-20161231_lab.xml
 EX-101.LAB

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 23
 ibm-20161231_pre.xml
 EX-101.PRE

</EX-101.PRE>

