<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20120223_10-K_edgar_data_936468_0001193125-12-074929_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15323736</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1519495</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3272740</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3586795</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4047000</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2571972</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>125</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-12-074929.hdr.sgml : 20120223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20120223142116
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-12-074929
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20111231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20120223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20120223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000936468
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES & PARTS [3760]
		IRS NUMBER:				521893632
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MD
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11437
		FILM NUMBER:		12633231

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6801 ROCKLEDGE DR
		CITY:			BETHESDA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			20817
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3018976000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6801 ROCKLEDGE DRIVE
		CITY:			BETHESDA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			20817

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-12-074929.txt : 20120223

10-K
 1
 d221578d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

        United States        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION    
   Washington, D.C. 20549        Form 10-K        ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934    
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011   
   Commission file number 1-11437       LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)       

Maryland    
     
     52-1893632     

(State or other jurisdiction of     incorporation or organization)   
     
    (I.R.S. Employer     Identification No.)    
     6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817-1877 (301/897-6000)    
  (Address and telephone number of principal executive offices)       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of Each Class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     

Common Stock, $1 par value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes        No          Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. Yes        No    
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes        No          Indicate by check
mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the
preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes        No    
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form
10-K.             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of
the Exchange Act.      Large accelerated filer          Accelerated
filer            Non-accelerated filer            Smaller reporting company          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12-b2 of the
Exchange Act). Yes        No          State the aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the common equity was last sold, or the average bid and asked
price of such common equity, as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.   
  Approximately $26.4 billion as of June 26, 2011.      Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date. Common Stock, $1 par value, 325,105,500 shares outstanding as of
January 31, 2012.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of Lockheed Martin Corporation s 2012 Definitive Proxy Statement are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K.   

Table of Contents  

    LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION    
   FORM 10-K    
   For the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 2011          CONTENTS        

Part I    

Page   

Item 1   
      
     Business    

3  

Item 1A   
      
     Risk Factors    

8  

Item 1B   
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

16  

Item 2   
      
     Properties    

16  

Item 3   
      
     Legal Proceedings    

16  

Item 4   
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

17  

Item 4(a)   
      
     Executive Officers of the Registrant    

17  

Part II    

Item 5   
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

19  

Item 6   
      
     Selected Financial Data    

21  

Item 7   
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

22  

Item 7A   
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

48  

Item 8   
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

50  

Item 9   
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

83  

Item 9A   
      
     Controls and Procedures    

83  

Item 9B   
      
     Other Information    

85  

Part III    

Item 10   
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

86  

Item 11   
      
     Executive Compensation    

86  

Item 12   
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

87  

Item 13   
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

88  

Item 14   
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

88  

Part IV    

Item 15   
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

89  

Signatures    

93  

Exhibits   

2   

Table of Contents  

    PART I    

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS           General     
  We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, and
sustainment of advanced technology systems and products. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistic, and information services. We serve both domestic and international customers with products and
services that have defense, civil, and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government. In 2011, 82% of our $46.5 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a
subcontractor (including 61% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 17% were from international customers (including foreign military sales (FMS) funded, in whole or in part, by the U.S. Government), and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other
customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security, and information technology, including cyber security.      We are operating in an environment that is characterized by both increasing complexity in the global security environment, as well as continuing economic pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant
component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on core program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing more security capability into the hands of our customers at
affordable prices. Recognizing that our U.S. Government customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio in a disciplined manner with a focus on international and adjacent markets. Finally, we are focused on
cost reduction, through actions such as our workforce reductions in 2011 and programs like our Voluntary Executive Separation Program (VESP) and facility reduction initiatives in 2010, to further enhance the value of our products and services.
     We were formed in 1995 by combining the businesses of Lockheed Corporation and Martin Marietta Corporation. We are a Maryland
corporation. Our principal executive offices are located at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817-1877. Our telephone number is (301) 897-6000. Our website home page on the Internet is www.lockheedmartin.com. We make our website
content available for information purposes only. It should not be relied upon for investment purposes, nor is it incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K.      Throughout this Form 10-K, we incorporate by reference information from parts of other documents filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). The SEC allows us to disclose important
information by referring to it in this manner, and you should review that information.      We make our annual report on Form
10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and proxy statement for our annual stockholders  meeting, as well as any amendments to those reports, available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably
practical after we electronically file the material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. You can learn more about us by reviewing our SEC filings. Our SEC filings can be accessed through the investor relations page of our website,
www.lockheedmartin.com/investor. The SEC also maintains a website at www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy statements, and other information regarding SEC registrants, including Lockheed Martin Corporation.   
    Business Segments        We have
four business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, Information Systems   Global Solutions (IS GS), and Space Systems. For more information concerning our segment presentation, including comparative segment net sales, operating
profit, and related financial information for 2011, 2010, and 2009, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 4   Information on Business Segments.   
   Aeronautics       In 2011,
our Aeronautics business segment generated net sales of $14.4 billion, which represented 31% of our total consolidated net sales. Aeronautics  customers include the military services and various other government agencies of the U.S. and allied
countries around the world. In 2011, U.S. Government customers accounted for 75% and international customers accounted for 25% of Aeronautics  net sales. Sales from Aeronautics  combat aircraft products and services represented 20% of our
total consolidated net sales in each of 2011, 2010, and 2009. No other Aeronautics  product or service lines generated more than 10% of our total consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010, or 2009.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

   Aeronautics is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration,
sustainment, support, and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles, and related technologies. Aeronautics also provides logistics support, sustainment, and upgrade modification services
for its aircraft. Aeronautics  major programs include:       

F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter   international multi-role, stealth fighter;      

F-16 Fighting Falcon   low-cost, combat-proven, international multi-role fighter;      

F-22 Raptor   air dominance and multi-mission stealth fighter;      

C-130J Hercules   international tactical airlifter; and      

C-5M Super Galaxy   modernization of the C-5 Galaxy, a strategic airlifter.      
  The F-35 program, which is the largest in our corporation and generated 42% of Aeronautics  net sales in 2011, consists of multiple
contracts. Under our customer s acquisition strategy, the System Development and Demonstration (SDD) contract will be performed concurrently with the low-rate initial production (LRIP) contracts. Concurrent performance of development and
production contracts is advantageous in complex programs to test airplanes, shorten the time to field systems, and achieve overall cost savings. Accordingly, we are performing the SDD contract concurrently with LRIP aircraft lots 2 through 6. We
expect the SDD portion of the F-35 program to continue into 2017.      In 2011, both LRIP lot 1 aircraft and seven of the 12 LRIP
lot 2 aircraft were delivered to the U.S. Government. We received additional funding for LRIP 5 and long lead funding for LRIP 6 in 2011. We now have 93 production aircraft on order. Despite the reduced defense spending levels in the
President s fiscal year 2013 budget proposal, the F-35 program continues to receive strong support from our customers. The budget supports continuation of all three variants of the F-35 aircraft and still maintains the same ultimate inventory
objective of 2,443 aircraft for the U.S. Government as last year, although ramp up of production will be slowed in the near term due to budgetary constraints and to allow for more testing and to minimize design changes impacting production aircraft.
     International interest in the F-35 continues to grow with two U.S. Government FMS customers to go along with eight partner
countries. In 2011, the Israeli government signed a letter of offer and acceptance with the U.S. Government for the procurement of F-35 aircraft, and the Japanese Ministry of Defense selected the F-35 to be its next generation fighter. Israel and
Japan are expected to be the first two countries to receive the F-35 aircraft through the FMS process. For additional information on the F-35 program, see  Status of the F-35 Program  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      Aeronautics continues to produce F-16 aircraft for foreign governments under
the FMS process and through direct foreign government sales. Aeronautics also provides service-life extension and other upgrade programs for our customers  F-16 aircraft. Production of the F-22 is scheduled to be completed in 2012 with on-going
modernization and sustainment activities continuing thereafter.      Aeronautics produces and provides support and sustainment
services for the C-130J Super Hercules, upgrade and support services for the legacy C-130 Hercules worldwide fleet, support services for the existing C-5A/B/C/M Galaxy fleet, and modernization of Galaxy aircraft to the C-5M Super Galaxy
configuration.      In addition to the above aircraft programs, Aeronautics is involved in advanced development programs
incorporating innovative design and rapid prototype applications. Our Advanced Development Programs (ADP) organization, which includes the Skunk Works, is focused on future systems, including unmanned aerial systems and next generation capabilities
for long-range strike, intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, situational awareness, and air mobility. We continue to explore technology advancement and insertion in existing aircraft, such as the F-35, F-22, F-16, C-130, U-2, and P-3. We also
are involved in numerous network-enabled activities that allow separate systems to work together to increase effectiveness, and continue to invest in new technologies to maintain and enhance competitiveness in military aircraft design and
development.       Electronic Systems       In 2011, our Electronic Systems business segment generated net sales of $14.6 billion, which represented 31% of our total consolidated net sales. Electronic Systems  customers include the military
services and various government agencies of the U.S. and allied countries around the world as well as commercial and other customers. In 2011, U.S. Government customers accounted for 73%, international customers accounted for 26%, and U.S.
commercial and other customers accounted for 1% of Electronic Systems  net sales. No Electronic Systems  product or service lines generated more than 10% of our total consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010, or 2009.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

   Electronic Systems provides surface ship and submarine combat systems; sea-based missile
defense systems; ship systems integration; littoral combat ships; nuclear instrumentation and control systems for naval submarines, aircraft carriers, and surface warships; air and defense missile systems; air-to-ground precision strike weapons
systems; tactical missiles; munitions; fire control and navigation systems for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support, and integration services; simulation and
training services; and energy programs. Electronic Systems  major programs include:       

The Aegis Combat System, which is a fleet defense missile system for the U.S. Navy and international customers and also a sea-based element of the U.S.
missile defense system. The Aegis Combat Systems Engineering Agent program, where we are the incumbent contractor, is being recompeted by the U.S. Navy in 2012.      

The Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) air and missile defense programs. PAC-3 is an advanced
defensive missile for the U.S. Army and international customers designed to intercept incoming airborne threats. THAAD is a transportable defensive missile system for the U.S. Government and international customers designed to engage targets both
within and outside of the Earth s atmosphere. The United Arab Emirates (UAE) recently selected THAAD, which represents the first international sale for this program.      

The Multiple Launch Rocket System (MLRS), Hellfire, and Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM) tactical missile programs. MLRS is a highly
mobile, automatic system that fires surface-to-surface rockets and missiles from the M270 and High Mobility Artillery Rocket System platforms produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. Hellfire is an air-to-ground missile used for
rotary and fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Army and international customers. JASSM is an air-to-ground missile used for fixed-wing aircraft, which is produced for the U.S. Air Force and international customers.

The Apache Fire Control System, which provides weapons targeting capability for the Apache helicopter for the U.S. Army and a number of international
customers.      

The Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), which is a surface combatant for the U.S. Navy designed to operate in shallow waters. Our second LCS vessel, the Fort
Worth, successfully completed its builder s sea trials in November 2011 and is on schedule for delivery to the U.S. Navy in 2012. Construction also began on our third LCS vessel, the Milwaukee.      

The Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services program, which provides logistics support services to the Special Operations Forces
of the U.S. Army.          Information Systems   Global Solutions    
  In 2011, our IS GS business segment generated net sales of $9.4 billion, which represented 20% of our total consolidated net sales.
IS GS  customers include the military services and various government agencies of the U.S. and allied countries around the world as well as commercial and other customers. In 2011, U.S. Government customers accounted for 93%, international
customers accounted for 5%, and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 2% of IS GS  net sales. No IS GS  product or service lines generated more than 10% of our total consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010, or 2009.
     IS GS provides management services, information technology solutions, and advanced technology expertise across a broad
spectrum of applications. IS GS supports the needs of customers in human capital planning, data protection and sharing, cyber-security, financial services, health care, energy and environment, security, space exploration, biometrics, and
transportation. IS GS provides network-enabled situation awareness, delivers communications and command and control capability through complex mission solutions for defense applications, and integrates complex global systems to help our
customers gather, analyze, and securely distribute critical intelligence data. IS GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts as compared to our other business segments. IS GS  major programs include:   

The Command and Control, Battle Management, and Communications (C2BMC) contract, a program to increase the integration of the Ballistic Missile Defense
System for the U.S. Government.      

The En-Route Automation Modernization (ERAM) contract, which is a program to replace the Federal Aviation Administration s infrastructure with a
modern automation environment that includes new functions and capabilities.      

The Hanford Mission Support contract, which provides infrastructure and site support services to the Department of Energy.

The National Science Foundation s U.S. Antarctic Support program, which was awarded in December 2011, manages sites and equipment to enable
universities, research institutions, and federal agencies to conduct scientific research in the Antarctic.      
         5   

Table of Contents  

    Space Systems       In 2011, our Space Systems business segment generated net sales of $8.1 billion, which represented 18% of our total consolidated net sales. Space Systems  customers include various government
agencies of the U.S. and commercial customers. In 2011, U.S. Government customers accounted for 96%, international customers accounted for 2%, and U.S. commercial and other customers accounted for 2% of Space Systems  net sales. Sales from
Space Systems  satellite products and services represented 12%, 13%, and 13% of our total consolidated net sales in 2011, 2010, and 2009. No other Space Systems  product or service lines generated more than 10% of our total consolidated
net sales in 2011, 2010, or 2009.      Space Systems is engaged in the design, research and development, engineering, and
production of satellites, strategic and defensive missile systems, and space transportation systems, including activities related to the planned replacement of the Space Shuttle. Space Systems is responsible for various classified systems and
services in support of vital national security systems. Space Systems  major programs include:       

The Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile, which is a program with the U.S. Navy for the only current submarine-launched intercontinental ballistic
missile in production in the U.S.      

The Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS) program, which provides the U.S. Air Force with enhanced worldwide missile launch detection and tracking
capabilities.      

The Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion) program, an advanced crew capsule design for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
utilizing state-of-the-art technology for human exploration beyond low earth orbit that replaces the Space Shuttle.      

The Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, which is the next generation of highly secure communications satellites for the U.S. Air Force.

The Mobile User Objective System (MUOS), which is a next-generation narrow band satellite communication system for the U.S. Navy.

Global Positioning System (GPS) III, which is a program to modernize the GPS satellite system for the U.S. Air Force.      
  Space Systems has an ownership interest in United Launch Alliance, which provides expendable launch services for the U.S. Government, and
in United Space Alliance, which provides processing activities for the Space Shuttle program, which is winding down following the completion of the last mission in 2011.        Competition        Our broad portfolio of products and services competes against
the products and services of other large aerospace, defense, and information technology companies, as well as numerous smaller competitors, particularly in the IS GS segment. We often form teams with other companies that are competitors in other
areas to provide customers with the best mix of capabilities to address specific requirements. In some areas of our business, customer requirements are changing to encourage expanded competition, such as information technology contracts where there
may be a wide range of small to large contractors bidding on procurements. Principal factors of competition include: value of our products and services to the customer; technical and management capability; the ability to develop and implement
complex, integrated system architectures; financing and total cost of ownership; release of technology; our demonstrated ability to execute and perform against contract requirements; and our ability to provide timely solutions.   
  The competition for foreign sales is subject to additional U.S. Government stipulations ( e.g ., export restrictions, market access,
technology transfer, industrial cooperation, and contracting practices). We may compete against domestic and foreign companies (or teams) for contract awards by foreign governments. International competitions also may be subject to different laws or
contracting practices of foreign governments that may impact how we structure our bid for the procurement. In many international procurements, the purchasing government s relationship with the U.S. and its industrial cooperation programs are
also important factors in determining the outcome of a competition. It is common for international customers to require contractors to comply with their industrial cooperation regulations, sometimes referred to as offset requirements, and we have
undertaken foreign offset agreements as part of securing some international business. For more information concerning offset agreements, see  Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  in Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

     Patents        We routinely apply for and own a substantial number of U.S. and foreign patents related to the products and services we provide. In addition to owning a large portfolio of intellectual property, we also
license intellectual property to and from third parties. The U.S. Government has licenses in our patents that are developed in performance of government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by our patents for
government purposes. Unpatented research, development, and engineering skills also make an important contribution to our business. Although our intellectual property rights in the aggregate are important to the operation of our business, we do not
believe that any existing patent, license, or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material adverse effect on our business taken as a whole.   
    Raw Materials and Seasonality        Aspects of our business require relatively scarce raw materials. Historically, we have been successful in obtaining the raw materials and other supplies needed in our manufacturing processes. We seek to
manage raw materials supply risk through long-term contracts and by maintaining a stock of key materials in inventory.   
  Aluminum and titanium are important raw materials used in certain of our Aeronautics and Space Systems programs. Long-term agreements
have helped enable a continued supply of aluminum and titanium. Carbon fiber is an important ingredient in the composite material that is used in our Aeronautics programs, such as the F-35 aircraft. Aluminum lithium, which we use for F-16 aircraft
structural components, is currently only available from limited sources. We have been advised by some suppliers that pricing and the timing of availability of materials in some commodities markets can fluctuate widely. These fluctuations may
negatively affect price and the availability of certain materials. While we do not anticipate material problems regarding the supply of our raw materials and believe that we have taken appropriate measures to mitigate these variations, if key
materials become unavailable or if pricing fluctuates widely in the future, it could result in delay of one or more of our programs, increased costs, or reduced profits.      No material portion of our business is considered to be seasonal. Various factors can affect the distribution of our sales between accounting periods, including the timing of government awards, the
availability of government funding, product deliveries, and customer acceptance.        Government Contracts and Regulation     
  Our business is heavily regulated. We deal with numerous U.S. Government agencies and entities, including all branches of the U.S.
military, the Departments of Defense, Homeland Security, Justice, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Transportation, and Energy, the U.S. Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, NASA, and the
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Similar government authorities exist in other countries and regulate our international efforts.      We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration, and performance of U.S. Government and other contracts. These laws and regulations, among other
things:       

require certification and disclosure of all cost or pricing data in connection with certain contract negotiations;      

impose specific and unique cost accounting practices that may differ from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and therefore require
reconciliation;      

impose acquisition regulations that define allowable and unallowable costs and otherwise govern our right to reimbursement under certain cost-based
U.S. Government contracts;      

restrict the use and dissemination of information classified for national security purposes and the export of certain products and technical data; and

require the use of earned valued management systems (EVMS) for managing cost and schedule performance on certain complex programs.
        For additional discussion of government contracting laws and regulations, see  Risk Factors  and
 Industry Considerations  and  Critical Accounting Policies  regarding contract types in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.   
  A portion of our business is classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be specifically described. The operating results of these
classified programs are included in our consolidated financial statements. The business risks associated with classified programs historically have not differed materially from those of our other government programs. The internal controls addressing
the financial reporting of classified programs are consistent with the internal control practices for non-classified contracts.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

     Backlog        At December 31, 2011, our total backlog was $80.7 billion compared with $78.4 billion at December 31, 2010. Backlog is converted into sales in future periods as work is performed or deliveries are made.
Approximately $31.0 billion, or 38%, of our total 2011 year-end backlog is expected to be converted into sales in 2012.      Our
backlog includes both funded (unfilled firm orders for our products and services for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer   Congress, in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded (firm orders for
which funding has not been appropriated) amounts. We do not include unexercised options or potential indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) orders in our backlog. If any of our contracts were to be terminated, our backlog would be reduced
by the expected value of the remaining terms of such contracts. Funded backlog was $55.1 billion at December 31, 2011 as compared to $56.6 billion at December 31, 2010. The backlog for each of our business segments is provided as part of
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations    Discussion of Business Segments.    
    Research and Development     
  We conduct research and development activities under customer-funded contracts and with our own independent research and development
funds. Our independent research and development costs include basic research, applied research, development, systems, and other concept formulation studies. These costs generally are allocated among all contracts and programs in progress under U.S.
Government contractual arrangements. Corporation-sponsored product development costs not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. Costs we incur under customer-sponsored research and development programs pursuant to contracts are
included in net sales and cost of sales. Under certain arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of the unreimbursed costs is expensed as incurred. Independent research and development costs charged to costs
of sales were $585 million in 2011, $639 million in 2010, and $717 million in 2009. The downward trend reflects the transition of programs from development to production and the realignment of our costs to adjust to our customers  budgetary
constraints. See  Research and development and similar costs  in Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies.        Employees
       At December 31, 2011, we had approximately 123,000 employees, over 95% of whom were located in the U.S. We have
a continuing need for numerous skilled and professional personnel to meet contract schedules and obtain new and ongoing orders for our products. The majority of our employees possess a security clearance. The demand for workers with security
clearances who have specialized engineering, information technology, and technical skills within the aerospace, defense, and information technology industries is likely to remain high for the foreseeable future, while growth of the pool of trained
individuals with those skills has not matched demand. As a result, we are competing with other companies with similar needs in hiring skilled employees in areas of need.      Approximately 15% of our employees are covered by any one of approximately 70 separate collective bargaining agreements with various unions. A number of our existing collective bargaining agreements
expire in any given year. Historically, we have been successful in renegotiating expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. Management considers employee relations to be good.   
    Forward-Looking Statements     
  This Form 10-K contains statements that, to the extent they are not recitations of historical fact, constitute forward-looking statements
within the meaning of federal securities law. The words believe, estimate, anticipate, project, intend, expect, plan, outlook, scheduled, forecast, and similar expressions are intended to help identify forward-looking statements.   
  Statements and assumptions with respect to future sales, income and cash flows, program performance, the outcome of litigation,
environmental remediation cost estimates, and planned acquisitions or dispositions of assets are examples of forward-looking statements. Numerous factors, including potentially the risk factors described in the following section, could affect our
forward-looking statements and actual performance.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS         An
investment in our common stock or debt securities involves risks and uncertainties. We seek to identify, manage, and mitigate risks to our business, but risk and uncertainty cannot be eliminated or necessarily predicted. You should consider the
following factors carefully, in addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, before deciding to purchase our securities.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

    We depend heavily on U.S. Government contracts. A decline or reprioritization of funding in the U.S.
defense budget or delays in the budget process could adversely affect our ability to grow or maintain our sales, earnings, and cash flow.       We derived 82% of our sales from U.S. Government customers in 2011, including 61% from the DoD. We expect to continue to derive most of our sales from work performed under U.S. Government contracts. Those
contracts are conditioned upon the continuing availability of Congressional appropriations. Congress usually appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis even though contract performance may extend over many years.   
  The programs in which we participate must compete with other programs and policy imperatives for consideration during the budget and
appropriation process. Concerns about increased deficit spending, along with continued economic challenges, continue to place pressure on U.S. and international customer budgets. While we believe that our programs are well aligned with national
defense and other priorities, shifts in domestic and international spending and tax policy, changes in security, defense, and intelligence priorities, the affordability of our products and services, general economic conditions and developments, and
other factors may affect a decision to fund or the level of funding for existing or proposed programs.      During 2011, the U.S.
Government was unable to reach agreement on budget reduction measures required by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Act) passed by Congress. Unless Congress and the Administration take further action, the Budget Act will trigger automatic
reductions in both defense and discretionary spending in January 2013. While the impact of sequestration is yet to be determined, automatic across-the-board cuts would approximately double the $487 billion top-line reduction already reflected in the
defense funding over a ten-year period, with a $52 billion reduction occurring in the government s fiscal year 2013. The resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration would have significant consequences to our business and
industry. There would be disruption of ongoing programs and initiatives, facilities closures and personnel reductions that would severely impact advanced manufacturing operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and
knowledge, directly undermining a key provision of the new security strategy, which is to preserve the industrial base. In December 2011, Congress passed an omnibus appropriations act for fiscal 2012 to finance all U.S. Government activities through
September 30, 2012, the end of its fiscal year. This full year method of financing eliminated much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procurement of products and services that characterized the government s first quarter of fiscal year
2012 when the operations of the federal government were financed through a series of continuing resolution temporary funding measures.      Under such conditions, large or complex programs are potentially subject to increased scrutiny, particularly those programs that have experienced performance challenges. Our largest program, the F-35,
represented 13% of our consolidated sales in 2011, and is expected to represent a higher percentage of our sales in future years. For additional information regarding the F-35 program, see  Status of the F-35 Program  in Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.      We offer a diverse range of defense, homeland
security, and information technology products and services. We believe that this makes it less likely that cuts in any specific contract or program will have a long-term effect on our business; however, termination of multiple or large programs or
contracts could adversely affect our business and future financial performance. We could incur expenses beyond those that would be reimbursed if one or more of our existing contracts were terminated for convenience due to lack of funding or other
reasons. Potential changes in funding priorities may afford new or additional opportunities for our businesses in terms of existing, follow-on, or replacement programs. While we would expect to compete, and be well positioned as the incumbent on
existing programs, we may not be successful, or the replacement programs may be funded at lower levels.      In years when the
U.S. Government does not complete its budget process before the end of its fiscal year (September 30), government operations typically are funded through a continuing resolution that authorizes agencies of the U.S. Government to continue to operate,
but does not authorize new spending initiatives. When the U.S. Government operates under a continuing resolution, delays can occur in the procurement of products and services. Historically, this has not had a material effect on our business;
however, should a continuing resolution be prolonged further or extended through the entire government fiscal year, it may cause procurement awards to shift and cause our revenues to vary between periods.   
  During periods covered by continuing resolutions (or until the regular appropriation bills are passed), we may experience delays in
procurement of products and services due to lack of funding; and those delays may affect our results of operations. At times, we may continue to work without funding, and use our funds, in order to meet our customer s desired delivery dates for
products or services. It is uncertain at this time which of our programs  funding could be reduced in future years or whether new legislation will be passed by Congress in the next fiscal year that could result in additional or alternative
funding cuts.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

    We are subject to a number of procurement rules and regulations. Our business and our reputation could
be adversely affected if we fail to comply with those rules.       We must comply with and are affected by laws and regulations
relating to the award, administration, and performance of U.S. Government contracts. Government contract laws and regulations affect how we do business with our customers and, in some instances, impose added costs on our business. A violation of
specific laws and regulations could harm our reputation and result in the imposition of fines and penalties, the termination of our contracts, or debarment from bidding on contracts.   
  In some instances, these laws and regulations impose terms or rights that are more favorable to the government than those typically
available to commercial parties in negotiated transactions. For example, the U.S. Government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts either at its convenience or for default based on performance. Upon termination for
convenience of a fixed-price type contract, we normally are entitled to receive the purchase price for delivered items, reimbursement for allowable costs for work-in-process, and an allowance for profit on the contract or adjustment for loss if
completion of performance would have resulted in a loss. Upon termination for convenience of a cost-reimbursable contract, we normally are entitled to reimbursement of allowable costs plus a portion of the fee. Allowable costs would include our cost
to terminate agreements with our suppliers and subcontractors. The amount of the fee recovered, if any, is related to the portion of the work accomplished prior to termination and is determined by negotiation. We attempt to ensure that adequate
funds are available by notifying the customer when its estimated costs, including those associated with a possible termination for convenience, approach levels specified as being allotted to its programs. As funds are typically appropriated on a
fiscal-year basis and as the costs of a termination for convenience may exceed the costs of continuing a program in a given fiscal year, occasionally on-going programs do not have sufficient funds appropriated to cover the termination costs were the
government to terminate them for convenience. Under such circumstances, the U.S. Government could assert that it is not required to appropriate additional funding.      A termination arising out of our default may expose us to liability and have a material adverse effect on our ability to compete for future contracts and orders. In addition, on those contracts for which
we are teamed with others and are not the prime contractor, the U.S. Government could terminate a prime contract under which we are a subcontractor, notwithstanding the quality of our services as a subcontractor.   
  In addition, our U.S. Government contracts typically span one or more base years and multiple option years. The U.S. Government generally
has the right not to exercise option periods and may not exercise an option period for various reasons. In addition, the use of progress payment provisions on fixed price contracts may delay our ability to recover costs incurred and affect the
timing of our cash flows.      U.S. Government agencies, including the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the Defense Contract
Management Agency, and various agency Inspectors General, routinely audit and investigate government contractors. These agencies review a contractor s performance under its contracts, cost structure, and compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, and standards. The U.S. Government also audits the adequacy of, and a contractor s compliance with, its systems and policies, including the contractor s business systems, purchasing, property, estimating, EVMS, compensation,
accounting, budgeting, billing, labor, and information systems. For discussion of the EVMS at our Fort Worth location, see  Status of the F-35 Program  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations. Any costs found to be misclassified may be subject to repayment. Inadequacies identified during government audits of EVMS, purchasing, billing, and labor systems also may result in withholds on billed receivables, which could potentially
impact the timing of our cash flows. The withholds are imposed if the system inadequacy causes damages to the U.S Government. If an audit or investigation uncovers improper or illegal activities, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties and
administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. Government. In addition, we could suffer serious reputational harm if
allegations of impropriety were made against us. Similar government oversight exists in most other countries where we conduct business.   
   Increased competition and bid protests in a budget-constrained environment may make it more difficult to maintain our financial performance.
      As a leader in defense and global security, we have a large number of programs for which we are the incumbent
contractor. A substantial portion of our business is awarded through competitive bidding. The U.S. Government increasingly has relied upon competitive contract award types, including IDIQ, GSA Schedule, and other multi-award contracts, which
has the potential to create pricing pressure and increase our cost by requiring that we submit multiple bids and proposals. The   
         10   

Table of Contents  

competitive bidding process entails substantial costs and managerial time to prepare bids and proposals for contracts that may not be awarded to us or may be split among competitors. Following
award, we may encounter significant expenses, delays, contract modifications, or even loss of the contract if our competitors protest or challenge contracts that are awarded to us. Multi-award contracts require that we make sustained efforts to
obtain task orders under the contract. We are facing increased competition, particularly in information technology and cyber security, from non-traditional competitors outside of the aerospace and defense industry. At the same time, our
customers are facing budget constraints, trying to do more with less by cutting costs, identifying more affordable solutions, and reducing product development cycles. To remain competitive, we consistently must provide superior performance,
advanced technology solutions, and service at an affordable cost and with the agility that our customers require to satisfy their mission objectives.       International sales may pose different risks.       In 2011, our sales to
international customers (including foreign military sales funded, in whole or in part, by the U.S. Government) were 17% of net sales. As a company, we have a goal to grow international sales over the next several years. Our international business
may pose risks that are different, and potentially greater, than those encountered in our domestic business due to the potential for greater volatility in foreign economic and political environments. International procurement rules and regulations,
contract laws and regulations, and contractual terms are different from those in the U.S., and may be interpreted differently by foreign courts. Our international business is highly sensitive to changes in foreign national priorities and government
budgets, and may be further affected by global economic conditions and fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Sales of military products are affected by defense budgets (both in the U.S. and abroad) and U.S. foreign policy.   
  In 2011, the European Commission took actions to stem the debt crisis in a number of member countries of the European Union and to
stabilize the economies of these countries. The governments of a number of European countries have proposed austerity measures to their budgets as a condition for continued economic support from other European Union countries (as well as the Europe
Central Bank) which could further constrain their defense budgets and fiscal priorities in current and future periods. Given the ongoing negotiations of the European Commission and its member nations, the effect of these austerity measures on our
international sales is uncertain.      Sales of our products and services internationally are subject to U.S. and local government
regulations and procurement policies and practices including regulations relating to import-export control. Violations of export control rules could result in suspension of our ability to export items from one or more business units or the entire
Corporation. Depending on the scope of the suspension, this could have a material effect on our ability to perform certain international contracts. There also are U.S. and international regulations relating to investments, exchange controls,
taxation, and repatriation of earnings, as well as currency, political, and economic risks. We also frequently team with international subcontractors and suppliers who are exposed to similar risks.   
  In international sales, we face substantial competition from both domestic manufacturers and foreign manufacturers whose governments
sometimes provide research and development assistance, marketing subsidies, and other assistance for their products.      Some
international customers require contractors to comply with industrial cooperation regulations and enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements. Offset agreements may require in-country purchases,
manufacturing, and financial support projects as a condition to obtaining orders or other arrangements. Offset agreements generally extend over several years and may provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset
requirements. See  Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.       Our business involves significant risks and uncertainties that may not be covered by indemnity or insurance.       A significant portion of our business relates to designing, developing, and manufacturing advanced defense and technology systems and products. New technologies may be untested or unproven. Failure of
some of these products and services could result in extensive loss of life or property damage. Accordingly, we also may incur liabilities that are unique to our products and services, including combat and air mobility aircraft, missile and space
systems, command and control systems, air traffic control management systems, cyber security, homeland security, and training programs. In some, but not all circumstances, we may be entitled to certain legal protections or indemnifications from our
customers, either through U.S. Government indemnifications under Public Law 85-804, qualification of our products and services by the Department of Homeland Security under the SAFETY Act provisions of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, contractual
provisions, or   
         11   

Table of Contents  

otherwise. The amount of insurance coverage that we maintain may not be adequate to cover all claims or liabilities, and it is not possible to obtain insurance to protect against all operational
risks and liabilities.      Substantial claims resulting from an accident, failure of our products or services, or other incident,
or liability arising from our products and services in excess of any indemnity and our insurance coverage (or for which indemnity or insurance is not available or not obtained) could adversely impact our financial condition, cash flows, or operating
results. Any accident, even if fully indemnified or insured, could negatively affect our reputation among our customers and the public, and make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. It also could affect the cost and availability of
adequate insurance in the future.       Our earnings and margins may vary based on the mix of our contracts and programs, our performance, and
our ability to control costs.       Our earnings and margins may vary materially depending on the types of long-term government
contracts undertaken, the nature of the products produced or services performed under those contracts, the costs incurred in performing the work, the achievement of other performance objectives, and the stage of performance at which the right to
receive fees is finally determined (particularly under award and incentive fee contracts). Changes in procurement policy favoring new, accelerated, or more incentive-based fee arrangements or different award fee criteria or government proposals that
indicate what our costs should be may affect the predictability of our profit rates. Our customers are under pressure that may result in a change in contract types earlier in program maturity or pursuit of non-traditional contract provisions in
negotiation of contracts.      Our backlog includes a variety of contract types which are intended to address changing risk and
reward profiles as a program matures. Contract types include cost-reimbursable, fixed-price incentive, fixed-price, and time-and-materials contracts. Contracts for development programs with complex design and technical challenges are typically
cost-reimbursable. Under cost-reimbursable contracts, we are reimbursed for allowable costs and paid a fee, which may be fixed or performance-based. In these cases, the associated financial risks primarily relate to a reduction in fees, and the
program could be cancelled if cost, schedule, or technical performance issues arise.      Other contracts in backlog are for the
transition from development to production ( e.g ., Low Rate Initial Production), which includes the challenge of starting and stabilizing a manufacturing production and test line while the final design is being validated. These generally are
cost-reimbursable or fixed-price incentive contracts, although there is a current stated U.S. Government preference for fixed-price incentive contracts. Under a fixed-price incentive contract, the allowable costs incurred are eligible for
reimbursement, but are subject to a cost-share limit which affects profitability. Changes resulting from the ongoing development phase may need to be implemented on the production contracts, a concept referred to as concurrency. The risks associated
with estimating and recovering the potential cost of concurrency changes on LRIP contracts may affect our earnings and cash flows. If our costs exceed the contract target cost or are not allowable under the applicable regulations, we may not be able
to obtain reimbursement for all costs and may have our fees reduced or eliminated.      There are also contracts for production as
well as operations and maintenance of the delivered products that have the challenge of achieving a stable production and delivery rate, while maintaining operability of the product after delivery. These contracts are mainly fixed-price, although
some operations and maintenance contracts are time and materials-type. Under fixed-price contracts, we receive a fixed price despite the actual costs we incur. We have to absorb any costs in excess of the fixed price. Under time-and-materials
contracts, we are paid for labor at negotiated hourly billing rates and for certain expenses.      The failure to perform to
customer expectations and contract requirements may result in reduced fees and affect our financial performance in that period. Under each type of contract, if we are unable to control costs, our operating results could be adversely affected,
particularly if we are unable to justify an increase in contract value to our customers. Cost overruns or the failure to perform on existing programs also may adversely affect our ability to retain existing programs and win future contract awards.
      If our subcontractors, suppliers, or teaming agreement or joint venture partners fail to perform their obligations, our performance and
our ability to win future business could be harmed.       Many of our contracts involve subcontracts or teaming arrangements
with other companies upon which we rely to perform a portion of the services that we must provide to our customers. We also sometimes bid on contracts through joint ventures that award work through these entities, rather than through subcontract or
teaming arrangements. There is a risk that   
         12   

Table of Contents  

we may have disputes with our subcontractors, teammates, or venture members, including disputes regarding the quality and timeliness of work performed, the workshare provided to that party,
customer concerns about the other party s performance, our failure to extend existing task orders or issue new task orders, or our hiring of the personnel of a subcontractor, teammate, or venture member, or vice versa. In addition, the
contracting parties on which we rely may be affected by changes in the economic environment and constraints on available financing to meet their performance requirements or provide needed supplies on a timely basis. A failure by one or more of those
contracting parties to provide the agreed-upon supplies or perform the agreed-upon services on a timely basis may affect our ability to perform our obligations. Contracting party performance deficiencies may affect our operating results and could
result in a customer terminating our contract for default. A default termination could expose us to liability and affect our ability to compete for future contracts and orders.       The funding and costs associated with our pension and postretirement medical plans may cause our earnings, cash flows from operations, and stockholders  equity to fluctuate significantly from year
to year.       Many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life
insurance benefits to eligible retirees. The impact of these plans on our GAAP earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations
are sensitive to changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates, rates of return on plan assets, and workforce demographics. Changes in these factors affect our plan funding, cash flow, earnings, and stockholders  equity.
     With regard to cash flow, in the past few years we have made substantial cash contributions to our plans following ERISA and
in 2011, Pension Protection Act (PPA) requirements. We generally are able to recover these costs related to our plans as allowable costs on our U.S. Government contracts, including FMS, but there are delays between when we contribute cash to the
plans under pension funding rules and recover it under government cost accounting rules. In December 2011, the cost accounting rules were revised to harmonize the measurement and period assignment of the pension cost allocable to government
contracts with the PPA, which will reduce this delay starting in 2013 (CAS Harmonization). The cost impact of CAS Harmonization will be phased in beginning in 2013 with the goal of better aligning the CAS cost and ERISA funding requirements being
fully achieved in 2017.      In recent years, we have taken certain actions to mitigate the effect of our defined benefit pension
plans on our financial results, including no longer offering a defined benefit pension plan to new, non-represented employees starting in 2006, and making substantial cash contributions to the existing plans to improve their funded status. In 2011,
we contributed $2.3 billion to our defined benefit pension plans. For more information on how these factors could impact earnings, financial position, cash flow and stockholders  equity, see  Critical Accounting Policies  
Postretirement Benefit Plans  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations and Note 10   Postretirement Benefits.       If we fail to manage acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions successfully, our financial results, business, and future prospects could be harmed.    
  In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible
acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and equity investments. We seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations. We often
compete with others for the same opportunities. To be successful, we must conduct due diligence to identify valuation issues and potential loss contingencies, negotiate transaction terms, complete and close complex transactions, and manage
post-closing matters ( e.g ., integrate acquired companies and employees, realize anticipated operating synergies, and improve margins) efficiently and effectively. Acquisition, divestiture, joint venture, and investment transactions often
require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. Unidentified pre-closing liabilities could affect our future financial results.   
  Joint ventures or equity investments operate under shared control with other parties. Under the equity method of accounting for
nonconsolidated joint ventures and investments, we recognize our share of the operating results of these ventures in our results of operations. Our operating results may be affected by the performance of businesses over which we do not exercise
control. The most significant impact of our equity investments is in our Space Systems business segment where approximately 25% of its 2011 operating profit was derived from its equity investments in two joint ventures (see  Space Systems 
above). Management closely monitors the results of operations and cash flows generated by these investees.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

    Our business could be negatively affected by cyber or other security threats or other disruptions.
      As a U.S. defense contractor, we face cyber threats, threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees,
and terrorist acts, as well as the potential for business disruptions associated with information technology failures, natural disasters, or public health crises.     We routinely experience cyber security threats, threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our company sensitive information, as do our customers, suppliers,
subcontractors and joint venture partners. We may experience similar security threats at customer sites that we operate and manage as a contractual requirement.     Prior cyber attacks directed at us have not had a material impact on our financial results, and we believe our threat detection and mitigation processes and procedures are robust. Due to the evolving
nature of these security threats, however, the impact of any future incident cannot be predicted.      Although we work
cooperatively with our customers and our suppliers, subcontractors, and joint venture partners to seek to minimize the impacts of cyber threats, other security threats or business disruptions, we must rely on the safeguards put in place by those
entities.     The costs related to cyber or other security threats or disruptions may not be fully insured or indemnified by other
means. Occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect our internal operations, the services we provide to customers, loss of competitive advantages derived from our research and development efforts, early obsolescence of our products
and services, our future financial results, our reputation or our stock price.       Unforeseen environmental costs could affect our future
earnings as well as the affordability of our products and services.       Our operations are subject to and affected by a
variety of federal, state, local, and foreign environmental protection laws and regulations. We are involved in environmental responses at some of our facilities and former facilities, and at third-party sites not owned by us where we have been
designated a potentially responsible party by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) or by a state agency. In addition, we could be affected by future regulations imposed in response to concerns over climate change, other aspects of the
environment, or natural resources, and by other actions commonly referred to as  green initiatives.  We have an ongoing comprehensive program to reduce the effects of our operations on the environment.   
  We manage various government-owned facilities on behalf of the government. At such facilities, environmental compliance and remediation
costs historically have been the responsibility of the government, and we have relied (and continue to rely with respect to past practices) upon government funding to pay such costs. Although the government remains responsible for capital and
operating costs associated with environmental compliance, responsibility for fines and penalties associated with environmental noncompliance typically are borne by either the government or the contractor, depending on the contract and the relevant
facts. Some environmental laws include criminal provisions. An environmental law conviction could affect our ability to be awarded future, or perform existing, U.S. Government contracts.   
  We have incurred and will continue to incur liabilities under various federal, state, local, and foreign statutes for environmental
protection and remediation. The extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this time. Among the variables management must assess in evaluating costs associated with these cases and remediation sites generally are
the status of site assessment, extent of the contamination, impacts on natural resources, changing cost estimates, evolution of technologies used to remediate the site, and continually evolving governmental environmental standards and cost
allowability issues. Both the EPA and the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment announced plans in January 2011 to regulate two chemicals, perchlorate and hexavalent chromium, to levels in drinking water that are expected to be
substantially lower than the existing public health goals or standards established in California. The rulemaking process is a lengthy one that takes one or more years to complete. If a substantially lower standard is adopted, we would
expect a material increase in our cost estimates for remediation at several existing sites. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or cleanup to the extent
probable and estimable, see  Critical Accounting Policies Environmental Matters  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and Note 13 Legal Proceedings, Commitments, and
Contingencies.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

    We are involved in a number of legal proceedings. We cannot predict the outcome of litigation and other
contingencies with certainty.       Our business may be adversely affected by the outcome of legal proceedings and other
contingencies that cannot be predicted with certainty. As required by GAAP, we estimate material loss contingencies and establish reserves based on our assessment of contingencies where liability is deemed probable and reasonably estimable in light
of the facts and circumstances known to us at a particular point in time. Subsequent developments in legal proceedings may affect our assessment and estimates of the loss contingency recorded as a liability or as a reserve against assets in our
financial statements. For a description of our current legal proceedings, see Item 3   Legal Proceedings and Note 13   Legal Proceedings, Commitments, and Contingencies.       In order to be successful, we must attract and retain key employees.       Our
business has a continuing need to attract large numbers of skilled personnel, including personnel holding security clearances, to support the growth of the enterprise and to replace individuals who have terminated employment due to retirement or
other reasons. To the extent that the demand for qualified personnel exceeds supply, we could experience higher labor, recruiting, or training costs in order to attract and retain such employees, or could experience difficulties in performing under
our contracts if our needs for such employees were unmet. We increasingly compete with commercial technology companies outside of the aerospace and defense industry for qualified technical and scientific positions as the number of qualified domestic
engineers is decreasing. To the extent that these companies grow faster than our industry, or face fewer cost and product pricing constraints, they may be able to offer higher compensation to job candidates or our existing employees. To the extent
that we lose experienced personnel through wage competition, normal attrition, or specific actions, we must successfully manage the transfer of critical knowledge from those individuals. We also must manage leadership development and succession
planning throughout our business. To the extent that we are unable to attract, develop, retain, and protect leadership talent successfully, we could experience business disruptions and impair our ability to achieve business objectives.   
  Historically, where employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements with various unions, we have been successful in negotiating
renewals to expiring agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. This does not assure, however, that we will be successful in our efforts to negotiate renewals of our existing collective bargaining agreements when they
expire. If we were unsuccessful in those efforts, there is the potential that we could incur unanticipated delays or expenses in the programs affected by any resulting work stoppages.       Our estimates, forward-looking statements, and projections may prove to be inaccurate.       The accounting for some of our most significant activities is based on judgments and estimates, which are complex and subject to many variables. For example, accounting for sales using the
percentage-of-completion method requires that we assess risks and make assumptions regarding schedule, cost, technical, and performance issues for each of our thousands of contracts, many of which are long-term in nature. Another example is the
goodwill assets recorded on our balance sheet, which represent greater than 25% of our total assets, and are subject to annual impairment testing. If we experience changes or factors arise that negatively affect the expected cash flows of a
reporting unit, we may be required to write off all or a portion of the related goodwill. Changes in U.S. or foreign tax laws, including possibly with retroactive effect, and audits by tax authorities could result in unanticipated increases in our
tax expense and affect profitability and cash flows. For example, if the corporate tax rate was lowered, our deferred tax assets would be reduced with a corresponding material, one-time increase to income tax expense; however, income tax expense and
payments would be reduced in subsequent years. Actual financial results could differ from our judgments and estimates. Refer to  Critical Accounting Policies  in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, and Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies for a complete discussion of our significant accounting policies and use of estimates.      Our future financial results likely will be different from those projected due to the inherent nature of projections, and may be better or worse than expected. Given these uncertainties, you should not
rely on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We expressly disclaim a duty to provide updates to forward-looking statements after the date of this Form
10-K to reflect the occurrence of subsequent events, changed circumstances, changes in our expectations, or the estimates and assumptions associated with them. The forward-looking statements in this Form 10-K are intended to be subject to the safe
harbor protection provided by the federal securities laws.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS      
  None.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         At
December 31, 2011, we operated in 573 locations (including offices, manufacturing plants, warehouses, service centers, laboratories, and other facilities) throughout the U.S. and internationally. Of these, we owned 45 locations aggregating
approximately 29 million square feet, and leased space at 528 locations aggregating approximately 25 million square feet. We also manage or occupy various government-owned facilities under leases and various other arrangements. The U.S.
Government also furnishes equipment that we use in some of our businesses.      At December 31, 2011, our business segments
occupied facilities at the following major locations that housed in excess of 500,000 square feet of floor space:       

Aeronautics    Palmdale, California; Marietta, Georgia; Greenville, South Carolina; and Fort Worth and San Antonio, Texas.

Electronic Systems    Camden, Arkansas; Orlando, Florida; Lexington, Kentucky; Baltimore, Maryland; Moorestown and Mt. Laurel, New Jersey;
Albuquerque, New Mexico; Owego and Syracuse, New York; Akron, Ohio; Grand Prairie, Texas; and Manassas, Virginia.      

Information Systems   Global Solutions    Goodyear, Arizona; San Jose and Sunnyvale, California; Colorado Springs and Denver,
Colorado; Gaithersburg and Rockville, Maryland and other locations within the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area; Valley Forge, Pennsylvania; and Houston, Texas.      

Space Systems    Sunnyvale, California; Denver, Colorado; and Newtown, Pennsylvania.      

Corporate activities    Lakeland, Florida and Bethesda, Maryland.      
  The following is a summary of our floor space by business segment at December 31, 2011:   
   
    Some of our owned properties, primarily classified under corporate activities, are leased to third
parties. In the area of manufacturing, most of the operations are of a job-order nature, rather than an assembly line process, and productive equipment has multiple uses for multiple products. Management believes that all of our major physical
facilities are in good condition and are adequate for their intended use.       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         We
are a party to or have property subject to litigation and other proceedings, including matters arising under provisions relating to the protection of the environment. We believe the probability is remote that the outcome of these matters will have a
material adverse effect on the Corporation as a whole, notwithstanding that the unfavorable resolution of any matter may have a material effect on our net earnings in any particular quarter. We cannot predict the outcome of legal proceedings with
certainty. These matters include the proceedings summarized in Note 13   Legal Proceedings, Commitments, and Contingencies.      From time-to-time, agencies of the U.S. Government investigate whether our operations are being conducted in accordance with applicable regulatory requirements. U.S. Government investigations of us,
whether relating to government contracts or conducted for other reasons, could result in administrative, civil, or criminal liabilities, including repayments, fines, or penalties being imposed upon us, or could lead to suspension or debarment from
future U.S. Government contracting. U.S. Government investigations often take years to complete and many result in no adverse action against us.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

   We are subject to federal and state requirements for protection of the environment,
including those for discharge of hazardous materials and remediation of contaminated sites. As a result, we are a party to or have our property subject to various lawsuits or proceedings involving environmental protection matters. Due in part to
their complexity and pervasiveness, such requirements have resulted in us being involved with related legal proceedings, claims, and remediation obligations. The extent of our financial exposure cannot in all cases be reasonably estimated at this
time. For information regarding these matters, including current estimates of the amounts that we believe are required for remediation or clean-up to the extent estimable, see  Critical Accounting Policies   Environmental Matters  in
Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Note 13   Legal Proceedings, Commitments, and Contingencies.       

ITEM 4.   
   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES      
  Not applicable.       

ITEM 4(a).   
   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT         Our executive officers are listed below, as well as information concerning their age at December 31, 2011, positions and offices held with the Corporation, and principal occupation and business
experience over the past five years. There were no family relationships among any of our executive officers and directors. All officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.       Linda R. Gooden (58), Executive Vice President   Information Systems   Global Solutions       Ms. Gooden has served as Executive Vice President   Information Systems   Global Solutions since January 2007. She previously served as Deputy Executive Vice President  
Information   Technology Services from October 2006 to December 2006, and President, Lockheed Martin Information Technology from September 1997 to December 2006.       Christopher J. Gregoire (43), Vice President and Controller (Chief Accounting Officer)       Mr. Gregoire has served as Vice President and Controller (Chief Accounting Officer) since March 2010. He previously was employed by Sprint Nextel Corporation from August 2006 to May 2009, most
recently as Principal Accounting Officer and Assistant Controller, and was a partner at Deloitte   Touche LLP from September 2003 to July 2006.       Ralph D. Heath (63), Executive Vice President   Aeronautics       Mr. Heath
has served as Executive Vice President   Aeronautics since January 2005. Effective April 1, 2012, Mr. Heath will step down as Executive Vice President   Aeronautics, but will remain an Executive Vice President of the Corporation through
May 1, 2012 when he will retire. Larry A. Lawson, Vice President and General Manager, F-35 Program, will succeed Mr. Heath as the new Executive Vice President   Aeronautics effective April 1, 2012.   
   Marillyn A. Hewson (58), Executive Vice President   Electronic Systems    
  Ms. Hewson has served as Executive Vice President   Electronic Systems since January 2010. She previously served as President,
Systems Integration   Owego from September 2008 to December 2009; Executive Vice President   Global Sustainment for Aeronautics from February 2007 to August 2008; President, Lockheed Martin Logistics Services Company from January 2007 to
February 2007; and President and General Manager, Kelly Aviation Center, L.P. from August 2004 to December 2007.       Christopher E. Kubasik
(50), President and Chief Operating Officer       Mr. Kubasik has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since
January 2010. He previously served as Executive Vice President   Electronic Systems from September 2007 to December 2009, and as Chief Financial Officer from February 2001 to August 2007.   
   Maryanne R. Lavan (52), Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary    
    Ms. Lavan has served as Senior Vice President and General Counsel since June 2010 and Corporate Secretary since September
2010. She previously served as Vice President   Internal Audit from February 2007 to June 2010, and Vice President   Ethics and Business Conduct from October 2003 to February 2007.     
         17   

Table of Contents  

    Joanne M. Maguire (57), Executive Vice President   Space Systems    
  Ms. Maguire has served as Executive Vice President   Space Systems since July 2006. She previously served as Vice President and
Deputy of Lockheed Martin Space Systems Company from July 2003 to June 2006.       Kenneth R. Possenriede (51), Vice President and Treasurer
      Mr. Possenriede has served as Vice President and Treasurer since July 2011. He previously served as Vice President
of Finance and Business Operations for Electronic Systems from July 2008 to June 2011 and as Vice President of Finance and Business Operations for Space Systems from September 2007 to June 2008.   
   Robert J. Stevens (60), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       Mr. Stevens has served as Chairman of the Board since April 2005 and Chief Executive Officer since August 2004, and previously served as President from October 2000 to December 2009.   
   Bruce L. Tanner (52), Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
  Mr. Tanner has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since September 2007. He previously served as Vice
President of Finance and Business Operations for Aeronautics from April 2006 to August 2007, and Vice President of Finance and Business Operations for Electronic Systems from May 2002 to March 2006.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

    PART II    

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      
  At January 31, 2012, we had 35,396 holders of record of our common stock, par value $1 per share. Our common stock is traded on the
New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol LMT. Information concerning the stock prices based on intra-day trading prices as reported on the NYSE composite transaction tape and dividends paid during the past two years is as follows:   
    Common Stock   Dividends Paid Per Share and Market Prices         
      Stockholder Return Performance Graph        The following graph compares the total return on a cumulative basis of $100 invested in Lockheed Martin common stock on December 31, 2006 to the Standard and Poor s (S P) 500 Index, S P
Aerospace   Defense (S P Aero) Index, and the S P Industrials Index.         

The S P Aero Index comprises General Dynamics Corporation, Goodrich Corporation, Honeywell
International, Inc., L3 Communications Holdings, Inc., Lockheed Martin Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, Precision Castparts Corporation, Raytheon Company, Rockwell Collins, Inc., Textron Inc., The Boeing Company, and United Technologies
Corporation. The stockholder return performance indicated on the graph is not a guarantee of future performance.      The S P
Industrials is a capitalization-weighted index that comprises 61 companies.      This graph is not deemed to be  filed 
with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and should not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any of our prior or subsequent filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the
Exchange Act.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

     Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities     
  The following table provides information about our repurchases of common stock during the three-month period ended December 31,
2011.       

(2)      
    Our Board of Directors has approved a share repurchase program for the repurchase of our common stock from time-to-time, authorizing an amount
available for share repurchases of $6.5 billion. Under the program, management has discretion to determine the dollar amount of shares to be repurchased and the timing of any repurchases in compliance with applicable law and regulation. The program
does not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2011, we had repurchased a total of 43.0 million shares under the program for $3.2 billion.      
         20   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA          

(a)   
        Our operating
profit and net earnings from continuing operations included severance charges of $136 million ($88 million or $.26 per share, after tax) in 2011 (Note 2); charges for the Voluntary Executive Separation Program and facilities consolidation totaling
$220 million ($143 million or $.38 per share, after tax) in 2010 (Note 2); and noncash pension expense (FAS/CAS) of $922 million, $454 million, and $456 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009. Net earnings from continuing operations per common share
benefitted from the significant number of shares repurchased under our share repurchase program (Note 11).      

(b)   
        Our net earnings
from continuing operations included an $89 million reduction in income tax expense through the elimination of liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits in 2011; tax expense of $96 million as a result of health care legislation that eliminated the
tax deduction for company-paid retiree prescription drug expenses to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D in 2010; and a $69 million income tax benefit for the resolution of certain tax matters in 2009 (Note 8).

(c)   
        Our net earnings
were affected by the items in notes (a) and (b) above, as well as items related to discontinued operations such as a $184 million gain ($.50 per share) on the sale of Enterprise Integration Group in 2010, and $73 million ($.20 per share)
of benefits for certain adjustments related to the planned sale of Pacific Architects and Engineers in 2010 (Note 14).      

21   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
    Management Overview        We
are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, and sustainment of advanced technology systems and products. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering,
technical, scientific, logistic, and information services. We serve both domestic and international customers with products and services that have defense, civil, and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S.
Government. In 2011, 82% of our $46.5 billion in net sales were from the U.S. Government, either as a prime contractor or as a subcontractor (including 61% from the Department of Defense (DoD)), 17% were from international customers (including
foreign military sales (FMS) funded, in whole or in part, by the U.S. Government), and 1% were from U.S. commercial and other customers. Our main areas of focus are in defense, space, intelligence, homeland security, and information technology,
including cyber security.      We have four business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, Information Systems  
Global Solutions (IS GS), and Space Systems. We organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered.      We are operating in an environment that is characterized by both increasing complexity in the global security environment, as well as continuing economic pressures in the U.S. and globally. A significant
component of our strategy in this environment is to focus on core program execution, improving the quality and predictability of the delivery of our products and services, and placing more security capability into the hands of our customers at
affordable prices. Recognizing that our U.S. Government customers are resource constrained, we are endeavoring to develop and extend our portfolio in a disciplined manner with a focus on international and adjacent markets. Finally, we are focused on
cost reduction, through actions such as our workforce reductions in 2011 and programs like our Voluntary Executive Separation Program (VESP) and facility reduction initiatives in 2010, to further enhance the value of our products and services.
     We expect a slight decline in our 2012 consolidated net sales and segment operating profit as compared to 2011, as our
customers prepare to meet new security challenges without the benefit of increased resources. Our 2012 segment operating margin is expected to remain above 11%. Despite the challenges we face, we have a strong balance sheet and we expect to generate
strong operating cash flows, which will allow us to continue to invest in technologies to fulfill new mission requirements for our customers, invest in our people so that we have the professional and leadership skills necessary to be successful in
this environment, and to return at least 50% of free cash flow   1    to investors in the form of share repurchases and dividends.        Industry Considerations
        U.S. Government Business         Budget Priorities        The U.S. Government continues to focus on
developing and implementing spending, tax, and other initiatives to stimulate the economy, create jobs, and reduce the deficit. The Administration is attempting to balance decisions regarding defense, homeland security, and other federal spending
priorities in a greatly constrained fiscal environment imposed by the enactment of the Budget Control Act of 2011 (Budget Act), which reduces defense spending by $487 billion over a ten-year period starting in fiscal year 2012. Absent a significant
redress of the structural disconnect between revenues and expenditures that can only be addressed through major tax and mandatory spending program reforms, it is likely that discretionary spending by the federal government will remain constrained
for several years. Although some specific priorities and initiatives may change from year to year, the investments and acquisitions we have made have been focused on aligning our businesses to address what we believe are the most critical national
priorities and mission areas. The possibility remains, however, that one or more of our programs could be reduced, extended, or terminated as a result of the Administration s continuing assessment of priorities. Notably, should Congress and the
Administration fail to change or delay a pending sequestration of appropriations in fiscal year 2013 imposed by the Budget Act, our customers could see their budgets   

1      
  We define free cash flow as cash from operations as determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), less the amount identified as expenditures
for property, plant and equipment and capitalized internal-use software as presented on our Statements of Cash Flows.     
         22   

Table of Contents  

dramatically reduced across the board in January 2013 with an attendant impact upon procurement of products and services. While the impact of sequestration is yet to be determined, automatic
across-the-board budget cuts would approximately double the amount of the ten-year $487 billion top line reduction already reflected in the defense funding over a ten-year period, with a $52 billion reduction occurring in the government s
fiscal year 2013. The resulting automatic across-the-board budget cuts in sequestration would have significant consequences to our business and industry. There would be disruption of ongoing programs and initiatives, facilities closures and
personnel reductions that would severely impact advanced manufacturing operations and engineering expertise, and accelerate the loss of skills and knowledge, directly undermining a key provision of the new security strategy, which is to preserve the
industrial base.      The Administration s spending priorities were released on February 13, 2012 with the submission of the
President s Budget Request for fiscal year 2013. The government s 2013 fiscal year runs from October 2012 to September 2013. Every year, Congress must approve or revise the proposals contained in the President s annual budget request
through enactment of appropriations bills and other policy legislation, which then require final Presidential approval. The outcome of the federal budget process has a direct effect on our business.   
    Department of Defense Business        The passage of the Budget Act signaled the end of ten years of growth in the DoD base budget and imposed specific caps on security and non-security spending beginning in fiscal year 2013. The fiscal year
2013 request of $525 billion for the DoD base budget is the first to reflect the reduced spending levels imposed by the Budget Act and is consistent with its caps on discretionary spending. The fiscal year 2013 request represents a decline of about
1% below the fiscal year 2012 DoD baseline appropriated level of $531 billion. Preliminary insights into national security funding priorities for fiscal year 2013 and beyond were revealed on January 26, 2012 by Secretary of Defense Leon Panetta,
which were consistent with the fiscal year 2013 budget request. Specifically, the defense spending proposal estimates DoD base budgets that are essentially flat in real terms from fiscal year 2013 through fiscal year 2017.   
  In prior years, the Administration has requested and Congress has provided funds for U.S. military operations in Afghanistan and Iraq,
and other unforeseeable contingency or peacekeeping operations, through a separate Overseas Contingency Operations (OCO) funding outside of the base DoD budget. The OCO funding for fiscal year 2012 totaled $115 billion, and the Administration
has requested $88 billion for fiscal year 2013. This significant reduction reflects the completion of U.S. military operations in Iraq in 2011. Our net sales historically have not been significantly dependent on overseas contingency or supplemental
funding requests, and therefore, we continue to focus our attention on the DoD s base budget for support and funding of our programs.      In December 2011, Congress passed an omnibus appropriations act for fiscal year 2012 to finance all U.S. Government activities through September 30, 2012, the end of its fiscal year. This full year method
of financing eliminated much of the uncertainty and inefficiency in procurement of products and services that characterized the first quarter of the government s fiscal year 2012 when the operations of the federal government were financed
through a series of continuing resolution temporary funding measures. As we begin 2012, presidential election year activities will likely mean a shortened session for Congress that will have to address the annual spending bills but also broader and
more contentious policy issues associated with sequestration and tax policy. Given the complexity and sensitivity of these issues, Congress may resort to returning for a lame duck session after the November 2012 elections in order to deal with these
more contentious issues.      The fiscal year 2013 budget proposal reflects the Administration s new national security
strategy and is consistent with the lower spending levels imposed by the Budget Act. Despite the reduced defense spending levels in the President s fiscal year 2013 budget proposal, we believe our broad mix of programs and capabilities continue
to position us favorably to support the current and future needs of the DoD and our programs are well supported in the fiscal year 2013 budget request. This view was strongly supported by the Secretary of Defense s initial public release of
elements of the fiscal year 2013 defense budget request on January 26, 2012. For example, the budget supports continuation of all three variants of the F-35 and still maintains the same ultimate inventory objective of 2,443 aircraft for the U.S.
Government as last year, although ramp up of production will be slowed due to budgetary constraints in the near term to allow for more testing and to minimize design changes impacting production aircraft. Additionally, the Secretary s
preliminary release specifically cited continued support for systems where we are the prime contractor or a major subcontractor such as the Global Positioning Satellite program, the Advanced Extremely High Frequency system, the Space-Based Infrared
System, Phased Adaptive Approach missile defense system, DDG-51 AEGIS destroyer, and continued operation of the U-2 manned ISR aircraft.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

   Given the Administration s emphasis on affordability and the need to find further
efficiencies in the management and operations of DoD, the need for more affordable logistics and sustainment, expansive use of information technology and knowledge-based solutions, and vastly improved levels of network and cyber security, all appear
to continue to be national priorities. To address these priorities, we continue to focus on growing our portfolio in these areas, diversifying our business, and expanding into adjacent businesses and programs that include surface naval vessels,
rotary wing aviation, and land vehicles.      Our products are represented in almost every aspect of land, sea, air, and
space-based missile defense, including the Aegis Combat System, the Patriot Advanced Capability-3 (PAC-3) missile program, and the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense (THAAD) transportable defensive missile system. Even as future quantities may be
adjusted to reflect reduced government resources for defense, we continue to perform on contracts to develop and deliver essential munitions, missile, and other systems, such as Hellfire, Javelin, Guided Multiple Launch Rocket Systems, and Q-53
(formerly EQ-36) radar systems, and the Persistent Threat Detection System (PTDS). We also have unmanned systems capabilities, including air, ground, and underwater systems.      We have a significant presence in the support and modernization of the DoD s information technology systems. We see opportunities for expansion of our sustainment and logistical support activities to
enhance the longevity and cost-effectiveness of the systems procured by our customers, and for improving global supply chain management.   
    Non-Department of Defense Business        Our experience in the defense arena, together with our core information technology and services expertise, has enabled us to provide products and services to a number of government agencies, including the
Departments of Homeland Security, Justice, Commerce, Health and Human Services, Transportation, and Energy, the U.S. Postal Service, the Social Security Administration, the Federal Aviation Administration, the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration (NASA), and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA).      As with the DoD, all other departments and agencies
were impacted by the Budget Act. For fiscal year 2013 there is a separate non-security discretionary spending cap applied to all non-DoD entities that were not included under the security cap. The result would be that budgets for fiscal year 2013
and beyond will be reduced further below last year s estimates.      We have continued to expand our capabilities in critical
intelligence, knowledge management, and e-Government solutions for our customers, including the Social Security Administration and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS). We also provide program management, business strategy and
consulting, complex systems development and maintenance, complete life-cycle software support, information assurance, and enterprise solutions. We believe that there will be continued demand by federal and civil government agencies for upgrading and
investing in new information technology systems and solutions in order to reduce costs of operations, but at a slower pace in the near term.      Consistent with our DoD business, more affordable logistics and sustainment, a more expansive use of information technology and knowledge-based solutions, and improved levels of network and cyber security
all appear to be priorities in our non-DoD business as well. Homeland security, critical infrastructure protection, and improved service levels for civil government agencies also appear to be high customer priorities. The continuing strong emphasis
on homeland security may increase demand for our capabilities in areas such as air traffic management, ports, waterways and cargo security, biohazard detection systems for postal equipment, employee identification and credential verification
systems, information systems security, and other global security systems solutions.             Other Business Considerations
        International Business        We remain committed to growth in our sales to international customers. We conduct business with foreign governments primarily through Aeronautics and Electronic Systems. Our international sales are
comprised of FMS through the U.S. Government and direct commercial contracts. In Aeronautics, the U.S. Government and eight foreign government partners are working together on the design, testing, production, and sustainment of the F-35 Lightning
II, while other countries such as Israel and Japan have selected the F-35 as their next generation combat aircraft. We expect the first international deliveries of the F-35 to begin in 2012. The F-16 Fighting Falcon has been selected by 26 customers
worldwide, including recent orders from Iraq and Oman, with 54 follow-on buys from 15 countries. We continue to expand the C-130J Super Hercules air mobility aircraft s international footprint with customers in 15 countries. In global
sustainment, we are leveraging our value as the original equipment manufacturer (OEM) for our major platforms and have set up new production capabilities to provide service life extension, including new wings and support for the U.S., Norway,
Canada, and Taiwan s P-3 fleet.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

   With regard to the Aegis Combat System, our Electronic Systems segment performs activities
in the development, production, ship integration and test, and lifetime support for ships of international customers such as Japan, Spain, Korea, Norway, and Australia. The system also has been selected to be used as a ground-based missile defense
system in Europe, referred to as  Aegis Ashore.  This segment has contracts with the Canadian Government for the upgrade and support of combat systems on Halifax class frigates. The new Littoral Combat Ship (LCS) is also generating
interest from potential international customers. Electronic Systems also produces the PAC-3 missile, an advanced defensive missile designed to intercept incoming airborne threats, for international customers including Japan, Germany, the
Netherlands, Taiwan, and the United Arab Emirates (UAE). The UAE entered into a FMS agreement with the U.S. Government for the first international sale of the THAAD missile defense system, with other countries having expressed interest. In 2011, the
Commonwealth of Australia entered into a FMS agreement for the first international sale of the MH-60R helicopter, for which we are responsible for integrating the common cockpit avionics suite, which marks the first ever purchase of an MH-60R
helicopter outside of the U.S., and we also received an order to upgrade the United Kingdom s Warrior fighting vehicles.   
  To the extent our contracts and business arrangements with international partners include operations in foreign countries, other risks
are introduced into our business, including changing economic conditions, fluctuations in relative currency values, regulation by foreign countries, and the potential for deterioration of political relations.   
    Status of the F-35 Program        The F-35 program consists of multiple contracts. Under our customer s acquisition strategy, the System Development and Demonstration (SDD) contract will be performed concurrently with the Low Rate
Initial Production (LRIP) contracts. Concurrent performance of development and production contracts is advantageous in complex programs to test airplanes, shorten the time to field systems, and achieve overall cost savings. Accordingly, we are
performing the SDD contract concurrently with LRIP aircraft lots 2 through 6.      The SDD portion of the F-35 program is expected
to continue into 2017 and has approximately $530 million of fee remaining, only a minor portion of which has been tied to specific performance milestones to date. Any portion of the remaining fee that we or our partners receive will be dependent
upon our customer s evaluation of our progress on program milestones, most of which have yet to be determined by our customer. The current profit booking rate on the SDD contract contemplates that we will earn a portion of these outstanding
award fees.        Given the size and complexity of the F-35 program, we anticipate that there will be continual reviews
related to aircraft quantities, program schedule, cost, and requirements as part of the DoD, Congressional, and international partners  oversight and budgeting processes. Current program challenges include, but are not limited to, executing
flight tests, supplier and partner performance, software development, and receiving funding for the LRIP contracts on a timely basis. In 2011, both of the LRIP lot 1 aircraft and seven of the 12 LRIP lot 2 aircraft were delivered to the U.S.
Government. We received additional funding for LRIP 5 and long lead funding for LRIP 6 in 2011. We now have 93 production aircraft on order.      Although not exclusively related to the F-35 program, on October 4, 2010, the Defense Contracting Management Agency (DCMA) withdrew its prior validation and determination of compliance of the earned value
management system (EVMS) at our Fort Worth, Texas location. EVMS is a tool for managing cost and schedule performance on complex programs. We understand that the DCMA has chosen to re-audit our EVMS system in 2012. The withdrawal of the prior
validation and determination of compliance of the EVMS system has no impact on our internal controls over financial reporting.   
  In January 2012, the Secretary of Defense removed the short takeoff and vertical landing (STOVL) fighter variant from
 probation  as the STOVL variant completed highly successful initial sea trials aboard the USS Wasp and is demonstrating the kind of performance and maturity that is in line with the other two variants of the F-35.   
  International interest in the F-35 continues to grow with two U.S. Government FMS customers to go along with our eight partner countries.
In 2011, the Israeli government signed a letter of offer and acceptance with the U.S. Government for the procurement of F-35 aircraft and the Japanese Ministry of Defense selected the F-35 to be its next generation fighter. Israel and Japan are
expected to be the first two countries to receive the F-35 aircraft through the U.S. Government FMS process.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

     Portfolio Shaping Activities         Overview       We continuously strive to strengthen our portfolio of products
and services to meet the current and future needs of our customers. We accomplish this in part by our independent research and development activities, and through acquisition, divestiture, and internal realignment activities.   
  We selectively pursue the acquisition of businesses and investments that complement our current portfolio and allow access to new
customers or technologies. We have made a number of niche acquisitions of businesses and investments in affiliates during the past several years. We also may explore the divestiture of businesses. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely
conduct discussions, evaluate targets, and enter into agreements regarding possible acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, and equity investments. As part of our business strategy, we seek to identify acquisition or investment opportunities
that will expand or complement our existing products and services, or customer base, at attractive valuations.       Acquisitions and
Divestitures       We used $649 million in 2011 for acquisition activities, including the acquisition of businesses and
investments in affiliates. We have accounted for the acquisition of businesses under the acquisition method, which requires that all of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed be measured and recorded at their acquisition-date fair values.
Acquisitions in 2011 primarily include QTC Holdings Inc. (QTC), which provides outsourced medical evaluation services to the U.S. Government, and Sim-Industries B.V., a commercial aviation simulation company. QTC is included within our IS GS
business segment, and Sim-Industries B.V. is included within our Electronic Systems business segment. The results of operations of these acquisitions have been included in the Statement of Earnings from the date of acquisition in the fourth quarter.
     During 2011, we committed to a plan to sell Savi Technology, Inc. (Savi), and we closed on the sale of Pacific Architects and
Engineers, Inc. (PAE). In 2010, we closed on the sale of Enterprise Integration Group (EIG). For additional information, see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.        Results of Operations        Since our operating cycle is long-term and involves
many types of design, development, and production (DD P) contracts with varying production delivery schedules, the results of operations of a particular year, or year-to-year comparisons of recorded sales and profits, may not be indicative of
future operating results. The following discussions of comparative results among periods should be viewed in this context. All per share amounts cited in these discussions are presented on a  per diluted share  basis from continuing
operations, unless otherwise noted.       

(a)   
        The amounts in the
above table reflect, as appropriate, the change in our accounting for services contracts with the U.S. Government from the services accounting method to the percentage-of-completion method (Note 1) and the operating results of Savi as discontinued
operations (Note 14). All prior period amounts included in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations have been adjusted to reflect these changes.      
         26   

Table of Contents  

   The following provides an overview of our consolidated results of operations by focusing on
key elements in our Statements of Earnings. Product sales are predominantly generated in the Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, and Space Systems business segments, and most of our services sales are generated in our Electronic Systems and IS GS
business segments.       Net Sales        
    Approximately 95% of our contracts are accounted for using the percentage-of-completion (POC) method of
accounting. Under the POC method, we record net sales on contracts based upon our progress towards completion on a particular contract, as well as our estimate of the profit to be earned at completion. The following discussion of material changes in
our consolidated net sales should be read in tandem with the following discussion of changes in our consolidated cost of sales and our  Discussion of Business Segments,  because, due to the nature of POC accounting, changes in our sales
are typically accompanied by a corresponding change in our cost of sales.      Net sales for 2011 were $46.5 billion, a $828
million or 2% increase over 2010 net sales of $45.7 billion. The increase was due to a $545 million or 1% increase in product sales and a $283 million or 3% increase in services sales. Net sales for 2010 were $45.7 billion, a $1.8 billion or 4%
increase over 2009 net sales of $43.9 billion. The increase was due to a $691 million or 2% increase in product sales and a $1.1 billion or 14% increase in services sales.       Product Sales       Product sales at Aeronautics increased about $1.2 billion in 2011
compared to 2010 primarily due to production activities on the F-35 LRIP contracts, volume on C-130 programs (including eight additional C-130J aircraft deliveries), F-16 support activities and deliveries (two additional F-16 aircraft deliveries)
and volume on C-5 programs (including one additional C-5M aircraft delivery) partially offset by lower volume on the F-22 program and F-35 SDD contract. Electronic Systems  product sales increased approximately $60 million in 2011 compared to
2010 primarily due to production on air defense programs (including PAC-3 and THAAD) and the LCS program partially offset by lower volume on certain ship and aviation programs, tactical missile programs (including Multiple Launch Rocket System
(MLRS) and Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile (JASSM)) and fire control programs. Product sales decreased at IS GS in 2011 compared to 2010 by about $700 million primarily due to the absence of the Decennial Response Integration System (DRIS)
program that supported the 2010 U.S. census and a decline in activities on the Airborne Maritime Fixed Station Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS) program. Product sales at Space Systems declined about $60 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily
due to lower sales on the Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle (Orion) program and the NASA External Tank program, due to the completion of the Space Shuttle program, partially offset by higher volume on fleet ballistic missile programs and commercial
satellites.      Product sales at Aeronautics increased about $1.0 billion in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to production
volume on the F-35 LRIP contracts, activities on C-130 programs (including nine additional C-130J aircraft deliveries), and volume on C-5 programs (including one additional C-5M aircraft delivery) partially offset by lower volumes on the F-22
program, F-35 SDD contract and F-16 (including 11 fewer F-16 aircraft deliveries) program. Electronic Systems  product sales increased approximately $125 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to production on air defense programs
(including PAC-3) and tactical missile programs (including Hellfire, MLRS, and JASSM) partially offset by lower sales on various underseas programs. IS GS  product sales were relatively unchanged between 2010 and 2009 as increasing
activities on DRIS were offset by lower activities on many smaller programs. Product sales at Space Systems decreased about $460 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower volume on defensive missile systems, activities on the NASA
External Tank program due to the wind down of the Space Shuttle program and volume from commercial satellite and launch vehicle activities. There was one commercial satellite delivery in both 2010 and 2009, and there were no commercial launches in
2010 compared to one commercial launch in 2009.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

    Services Sales       Services sales at Electronic Systems increased about $165 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to growth on the Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services (SOF CLSS) program
partially offset by lower volume on various other logistic and training services programs. Services sales at IS GS increased approximately $155 million in 2011 compared to 2010 due to activities on a number of smaller contracts. Most of our
services sales are in the Electronic Systems and IS GS business segments.      Services sales at Electronic Systems increased
about $645 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to growth on various logistic and training programs and the start of the SOF CLSS program in the third quarter of 2010. IS GS  services sales increased about $310 million in 2010
compared to 2009 due to activities on the Hanford Mission Support contract and numerous other services contracts at IS GS.       Cost of
Sales       Cost of sales, for both products and services, consist of materials, labor, and subcontracting costs, as well as an
allocation of indirect costs (overhead and general and administrative). For each of our contracts, we manage the nature and amount of costs at the contract level, which form the basis for estimating our total costs at completion of the contract.
     Management evaluates performance on our contracts by focusing on net sales and operating profit, and not by type or amount of
operating expense. Consequently, our discussion of business segment performance focuses on net sales and operating profit, consistent with our approach for managing the business. This approach is consistent with the overall life cycle of our
contracts, as management assesses the bidding of each contract by focusing on net sales and operating profit, and monitors performance on our contracts in a similar manner through their completion.   
  We regularly provide customers with reports of our costs as the contract progresses. The cost information in the reports is accumulated
in a manner specified by the requirements of each contract. For example, cost data provided to our customer for a product would typically align to the subcomponents of that product (such as a wing-box on an aircraft) or for services, the type of
work being performed (such as help-desk support).      Our contracts generally are cost-based, which allows for the recovery of
costs in the pricing of our products and services. Most of our contracts generally are bid and negotiated with our customers based on the mutual awareness of our estimated costs to provide the product or service. This approach for negotiating
contracts with our U.S. Government customers generally allows for the recovery of our costs. We also may enter into long-term supply contracts for certain materials or components, to coincide with the production schedule of certain products and to
ensure their availability at known unit prices.       
    Due to the nature of POC accounting, changes in our cost of product and services sales are typically
accompanied by changes in our net sales. The following discussion of material changes in our consolidated cost of sales should be read in tandem with the preceding discussion of changes in our consolidated net sales and with our  Discussion of
Business Segments.       Cost of sales was $42.8 billion in 2011, a $912 million or 2% increase over 2010 cost of sales of
$41.9 billion. The increase was due to a $429 million increase in cost of product sales, a $132 million increase in cost of services sales and a $435 million increase in other unallocated corporate costs, partially offset by a reduction in severance
and other charges of $84 million as further discussed in the following sections. Cost of sales was $41.9 billion in 2010, a $2.2 billion or 5% increase over 2009 cost of sales of $39.7 billion. The increase was due to a $896 million increase in cost
of product sales, a $976 million increase in cost of services sales, a $71 million increase in other unallocated corporate costs and an increase for severance and other charges of $220 million, as further discussed in the following sections.
  
         28   

Table of Contents  

    Cost of Product Sales       Cost of product sales at Aeronautics increased by about $1.1 billion in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to production volume on various programs, including F-35 LRIP contracts, and the impact of
additional aircraft deliveries. Cost of product sales for Electronic Systems was relatively unchanged between 2011 and 2010. Cost of product sales at IS GS decreased about $560 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the absence of the
DRIS program and lower volume on the JTRS program. Cost of product sales decreased at Space Systems by about $120 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to lower volume on the NASA External Tank and Orion programs.   
  Cost of product sales at Aeronautics increased by about $1.1 billion in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to production activities on
various programs, including F-35 LRIP contracts, and the impact of aircraft deliveries. Cost of product sales at Electronic Systems increased about $115 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to volume on air defense and tactical missile
programs. IS GS  cost of product sales were relatively unchanged between 2010 and 2009. Cost of product sales at Space Systems declined about $400 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to lower volume on various programs, including
the NASA External Tank, and the absence of a commercial launch as compared to the prior year. The 0.70% increase in the percentage of cost of product sales relative to product sales in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily was due to the increased
development and initial production work on the F-35 program and less work on mature programs, such as F-22 and F-16. Development and initial production contracts yield lower profits than mature full rate programs.   
   Cost of Services Sales       Cost of
services sales at Electronic Systems increased about $180 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to SOF CLSS. Cost of services sales at IS GS decreased by about $55 million in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to the retirement of
risks during 2011 and the recognition of reserves on various programs in 2010. The 1.3% decrease in the percentage of cost of services sales relative to services sales in 2011 compared to 2010 primarily was due to the retirement risks and other
factors on numerous programs at IS GS, partially offset by volume on SOF CLSS, which provides a lower margin relative to other Electronic Systems programs. Most of our services sales are in the Electronic Systems and IS GS business segments.
     Cost of services sales at Electronic Systems increased about $535 million in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily due to volume on
various logistics activities, as well as the start of the SOF CLSS program. IS GS  cost of services sales increased approximately $325 million in 2010 compared to 2009 due to volume on various service contracts, including the Hanford
Mission Support contract. Most of our services sales are in the Electronic Systems and IS GS business segments.       Severance and other charges
      During 2011, we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $136 million, net of state tax benefits.
Of these severance charges, $49 million and $48 million related to our Aeronautics and Space Systems business segments, and $39 million related to our IS GS business segment and Corporate Headquarters. These charges reduced our net earnings in
2011 by $88 million ($.26 per share). These severance actions resulted from a strategic review of these businesses and our Corporate Headquarters to better align our organization and cost structure with changing economic conditions. The workforce
reductions at the business segments also reflect changes in program lifecycles, where several of our major programs are transitioning out of development and into production, and certain programs are ending. The charges consisted of severance costs
associated with the planned elimination of certain positions through either voluntary or involuntary actions.      In 2010, we
recorded a charge of $178 million, net of state tax benefits, related to the VESP. The charge, which included lump-sum special payments for qualifying executives, reduced our net earnings by $116 million ($.31 per share). The amounts of the VESP
attributable to our business segments were $25 million at Aeronautics, $38 million at Electronic Systems, $42 million at IS GS, and $41 million at Space Systems. The remaining $32 million was attributable to our Corporate Headquarters.
Also, in 2010, we recorded a $42 million charge related to our decision to consolidate certain operations within our Electronic Systems business segment, including the closure of a facility in Eagan, Minnesota. This charge reduced our net earnings
for 2010 by $27 million ($.07 per share). The majority of the charge was associated with the accrual of severance payments to employees, with the remainder associated with impairment of assets.   
  We expect to recover a substantial amount of these severance charges, including the charge related to the VESP, in future periods through
the pricing of our products and services to the U.S. Government and other customers. While the VESP is expected to be recovered over several years, the other severance charges would typically be expected to be recovered within a one-year period. For
example, Space Systems recovered most of its severance charge in the second half of 2011.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

    Other unallocated corporate costs       Other unallocated corporate costs principally includes the non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment, stock compensation, and other corporate costs. These costs are not allocated to the business segments and,
therefore, are excluded from the costs of product and services sales (see Note 4 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements for a description of these items). The $435 million increase between 2011 and 2010 primarily was attributable to
an increase in the non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment of $468 million, which included increased FAS pension expense in 2011 compared to 2010 due to the decrease in the discount rate in 2011, together with the effect of the recognition of the 2008
investment losses, partially offset by the effects of investment gains in 2009 and 2010 (each as compared to our 8.50% long-term rate of return assumption). For more information, see the related discussion in Critical Accounting Policies under the
caption  Postretirement Benefit Plans.  Other unallocated corporate costs increased $71 million between 2010 and 2009 primarily due to fluctuations in expense associated with a number of corporate activities.   
  Changes in our cost of sales between periods were not material, except as described above. The period-over-period change in our cost of
sales was due to the volume of costs resulting from production, deliveries of products, and/or services provided on our portfolio of contracts. We have not identified any developing trends in cost of sales that would have a material impact on our
future operations.       Operating Profit       Our operating profit for 2011 was $4.0 billion, essentially unchanged from 2010. The increase in the non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment was offset by increases in operating profit in every business
segment, a decrease in severance and other charges, and a decrease in other unallocated corporate costs attributable to various corporate activities.      Our operating profit for 2010 was $4.0 billion, a decrease of 7% compared to operating profit of $4.4 billion in 2009. The decline in operating profit of $318 million primarily was attributable to the
effects of severance and other charges, net of state tax benefits, of $220 million (Note 2).       Interest Expense    
  Interest expense for 2011 was $354 million, about the same as in 2010. Increased interest expense from the $2.0 billion issuance of
long-term debt late in the third quarter of 2011 partially was offset by the redemption of certain notes in the fourth quarter of 2011. Interest expense for 2010 was $345 million, or $37 million higher than 2009. The increase mainly was driven by
interest expense on the $1.5 billion of long-term notes issued in the fourth quarter of 2009.       Other Non-Operating Income, Net
      Other non-operating income, net was $5 million in 2011, compared to $74 million in 2010. The decrease primarily was due
to premiums of $48 million on early extinguishments of debt (Note 9) and lower net unrealized gains on marketable securities held to fund certain non-qualified employee benefit obligations in 2011. Other non-operating income, net was
$74 million in 2010, compared to $123 million in 2009. The change between periods primarily reflects lower net unrealized gains on marketable securities held to fund certain non-qualified employee benefit obligations.   
   Income Tax Expense       Our
effective income tax rate from continuing operations was 26.5% for 2011, 30.8% for 2010, and 29.1% for 2009. These rates were lower than the statutory rate of 35% for all periods due to tax benefits for U.S. manufacturing activities, the deduction
of dividends related to certain of our defined contribution plans with an employee stock ownership plan feature, and the research and development (R D) tax credit.      The 2011 effective tax rate was affected by the completion by the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation of its review of IRS Appeals  resolution of certain adjustments related to tax years
2003-2008. As a result of completion of the review in April 2011, we recorded a reduction in income tax expense of $89 million in 2011.      The effective tax rates for 2011 and 2010 also included additional tax benefits related to U.S. manufacturing activities primarily due to an increase in 2011 and 2010 qualified production activity income
and an increase in the U.S. manufacturing activity deduction rate from 6% to 9%.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

   The 2010 effective tax rate was affected by the enactment of the Patient Protection and
Affordable Care Act and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, which eliminated the tax deduction for company-paid retiree prescription drug expenses to the extent they are reimbursed under Medicare Part D, beginning in 2013. As a
result, we recorded additional income tax expense of $96 million in 2010.      The 2009 effective tax rate reflected a reduction
of income tax expense of $69 million primarily arising from the resolution of IRS examinations of the years 2005 through 2007 and 2008.      The Administration s recent proposal to lower the corporate tax rate would require us to reduce our deferred tax assets upon enactment of the related tax legislation with a corresponding material,
one-time increase to income tax expense; however, our income tax expense and payments would be reduced in subsequent years.       Net Earnings
from Continuing Operations       We reported net earnings from continuing operations of $2.7 billion ($7.85 per share) in 2011,
$2.6 billion ($7.10 per share) in 2010, and $3.0 billion ($7.63 per share) in 2009. Both net earnings from continuing operations and earnings per share were affected by the factors discussed above. In addition, earnings per share has benefitted from
a significant number of shares repurchased under our share repurchase program, partially offset by common stock issued under our stock-based compensation and defined contribution plans. Share repurchases of 31.8 million, 33.0 million, and
24.9 million in 2011, 2010, and 2009 represented 9%, 9%, and 6% of our shares outstanding at the beginning of each year.       Net Earnings
from Discontinued Operations       Net earnings from discontinued operations included the operating results of Savi for all
periods presented. Discontinued operations also included PAE for 2009, 2010, and through the date of its sale on April 4, 2011, and those of EIG for 2009 and through the date of its sale on November 22, 2010. We reported a net loss from
discontinued operations of $12 million ($.04 per share) in 2011, and net earnings from discontinued operations of $264 million ($.71 per share) in 2010 and $6 million ($.01 per share) in 2009.   
  Net earnings from discontinued operations for 2011 included a net benefit of $40 million related to the decision to sell Savi, the
principal driver of which is the recognition of a deferred tax asset for book and tax basis differences. A similar tax benefit of $15 million related to the sale of PAE was also recorded in 2011. Net earnings from discontinued operations for 2010
included a gain, net of income taxes, of $184 million ($.50 per share) from the sale of EIG. Additionally, as a result of our decision to sell PAE in 2010, we recorded net adjustments that increased 2010 earnings from discontinued operations by $73
million ($.20 per share). For additional information, see Note 14 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.        Discussion of Business
Segments        We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, IS GS, and Space Systems. We
organize our business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered.      The following table presents net
sales and operating profit of our four business segments. Net sales exclude intersegment revenue, as these activities are eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions are generally negotiated under terms and conditions similar to other
government and commercial contracts. Operating profit of the business segments includes the equity earnings or losses from investees in which certain of our business segments hold equity interests, because the activities of the investees are closely
aligned with the operations of those segments.      Operating profit of the business segments excludes the non-cash FAS/CAS
pension adjustment discussed below; expense for certain stock-based compensation programs, including costs for stock options and restricted stock units; the effects of items not considered part of management s evaluation of segment operating
performance, such as the severance charges in 2011 and the charges in 2010 related to the VESP and facilities consolidation within Electronic Systems (Note 2); gains or losses from divestitures (Note 14); the effects of legal settlements; corporate
costs not allocated to the business segments; and other miscellaneous corporate activities. The items other than the charges related to severance, the VESP, and facilities consolidation are included in  Other unallocated corporate expense,
net  in the following table which reconciles operating profit from the business segments to operating profit in our Statements of Earnings. The charges related to severance, the VESP, and facilities consolidation are presented together as a
separate reconciling item.   
         31   

Table of Contents  

   During the fourth quarter of 2011, we realigned an immaterial supply chain services
business from our Aeronautics business segment to our Electronic Systems business segment. The realignment had no effect on our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. The financial information in the following table
has been reclassified to reflect this realignment.       

(a)      
    FAS pension expense increased in 2011 compared to 2010, and in 2010 compared to 2009, due to the decrease in the discount rate each year, together with
the effect of the recognition of investment losses from 2008, partially offset by the effects of investment gains in 2009 and 2010 (each as compared to our 8.50% long-term rate of return assumption). The segment operating profit includes pension
expense only as determined and funded in accordance with U.S. Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS). The non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment represents the difference between pension expense calculated in accordance with GAAP and pension costs
calculated and funded in accordance with CAS. The non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment is expected to be about $835 million in 2012. For more information, see the related discussion in Critical Accounting Policies under the caption
 Postretirement Benefit Plans ).      

(b)      
    The change in stock compensation expense and other, net between the periods primarily was due to fluctuations in expense associated with various
corporate activities, none individually significant.         The following segment discussions also include
information relating to negotiated backlog for each segment. Total negotiated backlog was approximately $80.7 billion, $78.4 billion, and $77.3 billion at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. These amounts included both funded backlog (unfilled
firm orders for which funding has been both authorized and appropriated by the customer   Congress in the case of U.S. Government agencies) and unfunded backlog (firm orders for which funding has not yet been appropriated). Negotiated backlog
does not include unexercised options or task orders to be issued under indefinite-delivery, indefinite-quantity (IDIQ) contracts. Funded backlog was approximately $55.1 billion at December 31, 2011.   
  Our net sales are derived from long-term contracts for DD P activities and for services provided to the U.S. Government as well as
FMS conducted through the U.S. Government. We account for these contracts, as well as DD P contracts with non-U.S. Government customers, under the POC method of accounting which represent approximately 95% of our net sales. We derive our
remaining net sales from contracts to provide services to non-U.S. Government customers, which we account for under the services method of accounting.      Under the POC method of accounting, we record sales on contracts based upon our progress towards completion on a particular contract as well as our estimate of the profit to be earned at completion.
Cost-reimbursable contracts, which account for the majority of our net sales, provide for the payment of allowable costs plus a fee. For fixed-priced contracts, net sales and cost of sales are recognized as products are delivered or as costs are
incurred. Due to the nature of the POC method of accounting, changes in our cost of sales are typically accompanied by a related change in our net sales.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

   Changes in volume refer to increases or decreases in net sales resulting from varying
production activity levels, deliveries, or service levels on individual contracts. Volume changes typically include a corresponding change in segment operating profit based on the current profit booking rate for a particular contract. For example,
if the cost volume on a cost-reimbursement-type contract increased or decreased compared with a prior period, sales and operating profit for that contract also will be increased or decreased.   
  Changes in performance refer to increases or decreases in the estimated profit booking rates on our POC contracts and usually relate to
revisions in the total estimated costs at completion that reflect improved or deteriorated conditions on a particular contract. For example, improved conditions typically result from the retirement of risks on contracts. Such changes in estimated
profit booking rates are recognized in the current period and reflect the inception-to-date effect of such changes. For example, if we increase the estimated profit booking rate on a cost-reimbursable contract, the increase in sales and operating
profit for that contract will reflect a higher return on sales in the current period due to the recognition of the higher profit booking rate on both current period costs as well as previously incurred costs.   
  Many of our contracts are multi-billion dollar contracts that span several years and include highly complex technical requirements. At
the outset of a contract, we identify and monitor risks to the achievement of the technical, schedule, and costs aspects of the contract, and assess the effects of those risks on our estimates of total costs to complete the contract. The estimates
consider the technical requirements (for example, a newly-developed product versus a mature product), the schedule and associated tasks (for example, the number and type of milestone events), and costs (for example, material, labor, subcontractor
and overhead). The initial profit booking rate of each contract considers risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements, schedule, and costs in the initial estimated costs at completion. Profit booking rates may increase during
the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule and costs aspects of the contract. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and may affect the profit
booking rate.      We have a number of programs that are designated as classified by the U.S. Government and cannot be
specifically described. The operating results of these classified programs are included in our consolidated and business segment results, and are subjected to the same oversight and internal controls as our other programs.   
   Aeronautics       Our
Aeronautics business segment is engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support, and upgrade of advanced military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles, and related
technologies. Aeronautics also provides logistics support, sustainment, and upgrade modification services for its aircraft. Aeronautics  major programs include the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter, F-16 Fighting Falcon, F-22 Raptor,
C-130J Hercules, and the C-5M Super Galaxy. Aeronautics  operating results included the following:       
    Net sales for the Aeronautics segment increased $1.3 billion, or 10%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The
growth in net sales primarily was due to higher volume of about $850 million for work performed on the F-35 LRIP contracts as production increased, higher volume of about $745 million for C-130 programs due to an increase in deliveries (33 C-130J
aircraft delivered in 2011 compared to 25 during 2010) and support activities, about $425 million for F-16 support activities and an increase in aircraft deliveries (22 F-16 aircraft delivered in 2011 compared to 20 during 2010), and approximately
$90 million for higher volume on C-5 programs (two C-5M aircraft delivered in 2011 compared to one during 2010). These increases partially were offset by a decline in net sales of approximately $675 million due to lower volume on the F-22
program, which will continue to decline as production winds down with final deliveries expected to be completed in 2012, and lower net sales of about $155 million for the F-35 SDD contract as development work decreased.   
  Net sales for the Aeronautics segment increased by $1.1 billion, or 9%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase primarily was due to
additional volume from work performed on the F-35 LRIP contracts of approximately $1.6 billion, higher volume of about $690 million for C-130 programs due to an increase in deliveries (25 C-130J aircraft delivered in 2010 as compared to 16 in 2009)
and support activities, and higher volume on C-5 programs of about $115 million, including   
         33   

Table of Contents  

delivery of the first C-5M. These increases partially were offset by lower volume of approximately $660 million on the F-35 SDD contract, lower F-16 volume of approximately $340 million primarily
due to a reduction of deliveries (20 F-16 deliveries in 2010 compared to 31 in 2009), and lower volume on the F-22 program of $305 million as production continued to wind down.   
  Operating profit for the Aeronautics segment increased $132 million, or 9%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The increase primarily was
attributable to approximately $115 million of higher operating profit on C-130 programs due to increased volume and the retirement of risks, increased volume and risk retirements on F-16 programs of about $50 million and C-5 programs of
approximately $20 million, and about $70 million due to risk retirements on other Aeronautics sustainment activities in 2011. These increases partially were offset by a decline in operating profit of approximately $75 million on the F-22 program and
F-35 SDD contract primarily due to lower volume and about $55 million on other programs, including F-35 LRIP, primarily due to lower profit rate adjustments in 2011, compared to 2010.   
  Operating profit for the Aeronautics segment decreased by $69 million, or 4%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease primarily was
attributable to a decline in operating profit on the F-22 program of about $75 million due to lower volume and a decrease in the level of risk retirements as the production program winds down, lower volume and a decrease in the level of risk
retirements of approximately $45 million on the F-35 SDD contract, and a decline in operating profit of about $40 million on the F-16 program due to a reduction of deliveries. These decreases more than offset increased operating profit
resulting from higher volume and risk retirements on the F-35 LRIP contracts of approximately $100 million.      The decrease in
the Aeronautics segment s operating margin from 2010 to 2009 reflects increased development and initial production work on the F-35 program and less work on more mature programs such as the F-22 and F-16. Development and initial production
contracts yield lower profits than mature full rate programs. Accordingly, while net sales increased in 2010 relative to 2009, operating profit decreased and consequently operating margins have declined.   
  Backlog increased in 2011 compared to 2010 mainly due to orders exceeding sales on the F-35 and C-5 programs, which partially were offset
by higher sales volume on the C-130 program. Backlog increased in 2010 compared to 2009 mainly due to orders exceeding sales on the C-130, F-35 and C-5 programs, which partially were offset by higher sales volume compared to new orders on the
F-22 program in 2010.      We expect that Aeronautics  net sales in 2012 will be comparable with 2011. An increase in net
sales on the F-35 LRIP contracts is expected to be mostly offset by a decline in volume on the F-22 production program due to completion of the production program with the last aircraft delivery in the first half of 2012. Operating profit is
projected to decrease at a low single digit percentage range from 2011 levels, resulting in a slight decline in operating margins between the years.       Electronic Systems       Our Electronic Systems business segment provides
surface ship and submarine combat systems; sea-based missile defense systems; ship systems integration; littoral combat ships; nuclear instrumentation and control systems for naval submarines, aircraft carriers, and surface warships; air and defense
missile systems; air-to-ground precision strike weapons systems; tactical missiles; munitions; fire control and navigation systems for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; mission operations support, readiness,
engineering support, and integration services; simulation and training services; and energy programs. Electronic Systems  major programs include the Aegis Combat System, PAC-3, THAAD, MLRS, Hellfire, JASSM, Apache Fire Control System, LCS, and
SOF CLSS.      We have classified Savi as discontinued operations (Note 14) and, therefore, financial information related to this
business has been excluded from the segment information below. Electronic Systems  operating results included the following:       
    Net sales for the Electronic Systems segment increased $223 million, or 2%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The
increase was due to higher volume on air defense programs (including PAC-3 and THAAD) of about $420 million, logistics activities   
         34   

Table of Contents  

of about $330 million related to the SOF CLSS program, which began late in the quarter ended September 26, 2010, and the LCS program of approximately $165 million. These increases partially
were offset by a decline in volume of approximately $375 million for certain ship and aviation programs (primarily Maritime Patrol Aircraft and PTDS), about $200 million for various logistics and training services, and approximately $115 million for
tactical missile and fire control programs.      Net sales for the Electronic Systems segment increased by $769 million, or 6%, in
2010 compared to 2009. Contributing to the increases were higher volume of about $430 million on various training and logistics activities (including the SOF CLSS program), increased deliveries on tactical missile programs (including MLRS and JASSM)
of approximately $250 million, increased volume on various surface naval warfare programs (the Aegis Combat System) of about $140 million, and higher volume of about $100 million on air defense programs (including PAC-3). These increases
partially were offset by lower volume of approximately $185 million on undersea warfare programs.      Operating profit for the
Electronic Systems segment increased $40 million, or 2%, compared to the corresponding period in 2010. Operating profit increased by about $60 million due to higher volume and retirement of risks on air defense programs (including PAC-3 and THAAD)
and approximately $35 million primarily due to the recognition of reserves on certain undersea warfare programs in 2010. These increases partially were offset by approximately $55 million of reserves for contract cost matters on various ship and
aviation programs (including the terminated presidential helicopter program).      Operating profit for the Electronic Systems
segment increased by $100 million, or 6%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The increase primarily was attributable to volume and retirement of risk on various training and logistics services programs of about $50 million, approximately $65 million on
tactical missiles programs (including MLRS and JASSM) due to volume and the retirement of risks, and about $40 million due to the retirement of risks on fire control programs. These increases partially were offset by a decline in operating profit of
approximately $75 million on undersea warfare programs due to lower volume and recognition of reserves.      Backlog increased in
2011 compared to 2010 primarily due to orders exceeding sales on air defense programs (including THAAD and PAC-3), partially offset by higher sales volume on various training and logistics activities and surface naval warfare programs. Backlog
increased in 2010 compared to 2009 primarily from increased orders for air defense and tactical missile programs and on various training and logistics services programs. These increases partially were offset by higher sales volume on ship and
aviation systems and surface naval warfare programs.      We expect Electronic Systems  net sales for 2012 will be comparable
with 2011. We expect flat to low single digit percentage growth in key programs such as the LCS, offset by a decline in volume on logistics and training services contracts. Operating profit and margin are expected to be comparable with 2011 results.
      Information Systems   Global Solutions       Our IS GS business segment provides management services, Information Technology (IT) solutions, and advanced technology expertise across a broad spectrum of applications. IS GS supports the needs
of customers in human capital planning, data protection and sharing, cyber-security, financial services, health care, energy and environment, security, space exploration, biometrics, and transportation. IS GS provides network-enabled situation
awareness, delivers communications and command and control capability through complex mission solutions for defense applications, and integrates complex global systems to help our customers gather, analyze, and securely distribute critical
intelligence data. IS GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts as compared to our other business segments. IS GS  major programs include the Command and Control, Battle Management, and Communications contract, En-Route Automation
Modernization (ERAM) contract, the Hanford Mission Support contract, and the National Science Foundation s U.S. Antarctic Support program.      We have classified PAE and EIG as discontinued operations (Note 14) and, therefore, financial information related to these businesses has been excluded from the segment information below. IS GS 
operating results included the following:       
 
         35   

Table of Contents  

   Net sales for the IS GS segment decreased $540 million, or 5%, in 2011 compared to
2010. The decrease primarily was attributable to lower volume of approximately $665 million due to the absence of the DRIS program that supported the 2010 U.S. census and a decline in activities on the JTRS program. This decrease partially was
offset by increased net sales on numerous programs.      Net sales for the IS GS segment increased $322 million, or 3%, in
2010 compared to 2009. The increase primarily was attributable to higher volume of $620 million on the DRIS program and the Hanford Mission Support contract. These increases partially were offset by lower volume on numerous smaller programs.
     Operating profit for the IS GS segment increased $60 million, or 7%, in 2011 compared to 2010. Operating profit increased
approximately $180 million due to volume and the retirement of risks in 2011 and the absence of reserves recognized in 2010 on numerous programs (including among others, the NASA Outsourcing Desktop Initiative (ODIN) (about $60 million) and
Transportation Worker Identification Credential and Automated Flight Service Station programs). The increases in operating profit partially were offset by the absence of the DRIS program and a decline in activities on the JTRS program of about $120
million.      Operating profit for the IS GS segment decreased $60 million, or 7%, in 2010 compared to 2009. The decrease
primarily was attributable to the recognition of reserves of about $55 million on several programs (including, among others, the ODIN program). Lower volume on numerous programs offset increased operating profit from the DRIS program.   
  The decrease in backlog during 2011 compared to 2010 mainly was due to declining activities on the JTRS program and several other smaller
programs. The decrease in backlog during 2010 compared to 2009 mainly was due to higher sales volume associated with the DRIS program, the Hanford Mission Support contract, and several other smaller programs.   
  We expect IS GS will experience a decrease in net sales in the mid to upper single digit percentage range for 2012 as compared to
2011. The decline is primarily due to the completion of various programs including ODIN, the U.K. Census, and JTRS, and we do not expect that this work will be replaced by other contracts due to the fiscal pressures constraining government purchases
of IT and other products and services. Operating profit is expected to decline in 2012 in the upper single digit percentage range as a result of the lower sales volume, resulting in a slight decline in operating margins between the years.
      Space Systems       Our Space Systems business segment is engaged in the design, research and development, engineering, and production of satellites, strategic and defensive missile systems, and space transportation systems,
including activities related to the planned replacement of the Space Shuttle. Space Systems is responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space Systems  major programs include the
Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile, Space-Based Infrared System (SBIRS), Orion, Advanced Extremely High Frequency (AEHF) system, Global Positioning Satellite (GPS) III system, and Mobile User Objective System (MUOS). Space Systems has an
ownership interest in United Launch Alliance (ULA), which provides expendable launch services for the U.S. Government, and in United Space Alliance (USA), which provides processing activities for the Space Shuttle program, which is winding down
following the completion of the last mission in 2011. Space Systems  operating results included the following:       
    Net sales for the Space Systems segment decreased $108 million, or 1%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The
decrease in net sales was attributable to a decline of about $90 million related to the NASA External Tank program, which ended in connection with the completion of the last Space Shuttle mission in July 2011, a decline in volume of about $90
million related to the Orion program, and lower volume of approximately $30 million related to government satellites. These decreases partially were offset by higher volume for fleet ballistic and defensive missile systems of about $80 million and
commercial satellites of approximately $45 million (one commercial satellite delivery in both 2011 and 2010).      Net sales for
the Space Systems segment decreased $408 million or 5% in 2010 compared to 2009. The decline principally was due to lower volume on defensive missile systems of approximately $150 million, the NASA External Tank
  
         36   

Table of Contents  

program of about $130 million due to the wind down of the Space Shuttle program and volume from commercial satellite and launch vehicle activities of approximately $125 million. There was one
commercial satellite delivery in 2010 and 2009 and no commercial launches in 2010 compared to one commercial launch in 2009. Partially offsetting these decreases was a growth of about $35 million due to higher volume in government satellites
activities.      Operating profit for the Space Systems segment increased $21 million, or 2%, in 2011 compared to 2010. The
increase in operating profit principally was attributable to retirement of risks on government satellite programs of about $60 million and decreased equity earnings of about $30 million primarily due to the completion of the Space Shuttle program.
     Operating profit for the Space Systems segment was unchanged for 2010 compared to 2009. Operating profit increased on
government satellites programs by approximately $15 million due to higher volume and risk retirements and higher equity earnings of approximately $40 million. These increases were offset by lower volume and reserve for performance of about $40
million on commercial satellite programs and lower volume on the NASA External Tank program of approximately $15 million.   
  Total equity earnings recognized by the Space Systems segment from ULA and USA represented approximately $230 million, or 23% of
this segment s operating profit during 2011. During 2010, total equity earnings recognized by the Space Systems segment from ULA and USA represented approximately $260 million, or 27% of this segment s operating profit.   
  Backlog decreased in 2011 compared to 2010 mainly due to higher sales volume associated with the Orion program and on government
satellite activities. Backlog increased in 2010 compared to 2009 mainly due to orders exceeding sales on government satellite programs and strategic missile programs, which more than offset higher sales volume compared to new orders on the
Orion program in 2010.      We expect Space Systems  net sales to decline in 2012 in the mid single digit percentage range as
compared to 2011 primarily due to lower activities on government satellite programs and the Orion program. Operating profit is expected to decline in the mid to upper single digit percentage range in 2012 due to the lower sales volume as well as
lower equity earnings from ULA, resulting in a slight decline in operating margins between the years.        Liquidity and Cash Flows
       Our access to capital resources that provide liquidity has not been materially affected by the changing economic and
market conditions over the past few years. We continually monitor changes in such conditions so that we can timely respond to any related developments. We have generated strong operating cash flows which have been the primary source of funding for
our operations, debt service and repayments, capital expenditures, share repurchases, dividends, acquisitions, and postretirement benefit plan funding. We have accessed the capital markets on limited occasions, as needed or when opportunistic.
     We expect our cash from operations to continue to be sufficient to support our operations and anticipated capital
expenditures for the foreseeable future. We have financing resources available to fund potential cash outflows that are less predictable or more discretionary, as discussed under Capital Structure, Resources, and Other. We have access to the credit
markets, if needed, for liquidity or general corporate purposes, including letters of credit to support customer advance payments and for other trade finance purposes such as guaranteeing our performance on particular contracts.   
  Cash received from customers, either from the payment of invoices for work performed or for advances in excess of costs incurred, is our
primary source of cash. We generally do not begin work on contracts until funding is appropriated by the customer. Billing timetables and payment terms on our contracts vary based on a number of factors, including the contract type. We generally
bill and collect cash more frequently under cost-reimbursable and time-and-materials contracts, which together represent approximately 55% of the sales we recorded in 2011, as we are authorized to bill as the costs are incurred or work is performed.
In contrast to cost-reimbursable contracts, for fixed-price contracts, which represented approximately 45% of the revenues we recorded in 2011, we generally do not bill until milestones, including deliveries, are achieved. A number of our
fixed-price contracts may provide for performance-based payments which allow us to bill and collect cash as we perform on the contract. The U.S. Government recently has indicated that it would consider progress payments as the baseline for
negotiating payment terms on fixed-price contracts, rather than performance-based payments. The use of progress payment provisions on fixed-price contracts may delay our ability to recover costs incurred and affect the timing of our cash flows.
  
         37   

Table of Contents  

   The majority of our capital expenditures for 2011 and those planned for 2012 can be divided
into the categories of facilities infrastructure, equipment, and IT. Expenditures for facilities infrastructure and equipment are generally incurred to support new and existing programs across all of our business segments. For example, we have
projects underway in our Aeronautics business segment for facilities and equipment to support production of the F-35 combat aircraft. In addition, we have projects underway to modernize certain of our facilities. We also incur capital expenditures
for IT to support programs and general enterprise IT infrastructure as well as for the development or purchase of internal-use software.      We have a balanced cash deployment strategy to enhance stockholder value and position ourselves to take advantage of new business opportunities when they arise. Consistent with that strategy, we have
invested in our business, including capital expenditures and independent research and development, repurchased shares, increased our dividends, made selective acquisitions of businesses, and managed our debt levels. The following table provides a
summary of our cash flow information and the subsequent discussion provides an overview of our execution of this strategy.       

(a)   
        In the fourth
quarter of 2011, we revised the classification of cash payments associated with the development or purchase of internal-use software from operating cash flows to investing cash flows (Note 1). Cash flows for all years above have been adjusted for
this change. Cash payments for internal-use software were $173 million in 2011, $254 million in 2010, and $314 million in 2009.          Operating Activities       Net cash provided by operating activities increased
by $452 million to $4.3 billion in 2011 as compared to 2010. The increase in cash flows from operating activities was driven by a $536 million increase in cash provided by operating working capital (defined as accounts receivable and inventories
less accounts payable and customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred) as discussed below and $84 million related to lower net income tax payments due to the absence of a payment made in 2010 related to matters pending with IRS
appeals. These improvements partially were offset by a $134 million net increase in cash outflows related to defined benefit pension plans, and lower operating results. The increase in cash outflows related to defined benefit pension plans was due
to a $45 million increase in contributions paid to the pension trust and a decrease in the recovery of CAS costs on our contracts.      The improvement in cash provided by operating working capital changes primarily was due to the timing of payment of accounts payable, which partially was offset by the timing of collections of accounts
receivable and customer advance payments. The change in accounts receivable primarily reflects the timing of contract negotiations and related billing activities on the F-35 program at our Aeronautics segment. The decrease in cash flows from
customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred was attributable to the C-130 programs at our Aeronautics segment, which was partially offset by various programs (largely PAC-3) at our Electronic Systems segment. Our operating working
capital is subject to wide fluctuations based on the timing of cash transactions related to production schedules, timing of progress and advance payments, the acquisition of inventory, the collection of accounts receivable, and the payment of
accounts payable. Cash provided by changes in operating working capital balances in 2012 may decrease over 2011 primarily due to the timing of collections of accounts receivable and the payment of accounts payable. Consequently, we expect that net
cash provided by operating activities will be lower in 2012.      Net cash provided by operating activities increased by $314
million to $3.8 billion in 2010 as compared to 2009. The increase primarily was attributable to changes in our operating working capital balances of $585 million and $187 million related to lower net income tax payments. Partially offsetting these
improvements was a net reduction in cash of $350 million related to our defined benefit pension plans. The improvement in cash provided by operating working capital was due to a decline in 2010 accounts receivable balances and an increase in 2010
customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred balances. These improvements partially were offset by a decline in accounts payable balances in 2010 compared to 2009. The decline in accounts receivable primarily was due to higher
collections on various programs at Electronic Systems, IS GS, and Space Systems business segments. The increase in customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred primarily was attributable to an increase on government and commercial
satellite programs at Space Systems and C-130 programs at Aeronautics, partially offset by a decrease on various programs at Electronic Systems. The decrease in accounts payable was attributable to the timing of accounts payable activities across
all segments. The reduction in cash from defined benefit pension plans was the result of increased contributions to the pension trust of $758 million as compared to 2009, partially offset by an increase in the CAS costs recovered on our contracts.
  
         38   

Table of Contents  

    Investing Activities        Capital expenditures    The majority of our capital expenditures relate to facilities infrastructure and equipment that are generally incurred to support new and existing programs across all of
our business segments. We also incur capital expenditures for IT to support programs and general enterprise IT infrastructure. Capital expenditures for property, plant, and equipment amounted to $814 million in 2011, $820 million in 2010, and $852
million in 2009. Costs associated with the development or purchase of internal-use software amounted to $173 million in 2011, $254 million in 2010, and $314 million in 2009, and have trended downward with the completion of certain infrastructure
systems. We expect that our operating cash flows will continue to be sufficient to fund our planned annual capital expenditures over the next few years.       Acquisitions, divestitures and other activities    Acquisition activities include   both the acquisition of businesses and investments in affiliates. We paid $649 million in 2011 for
acquisition activities, primarily related to the acquisition of QTC and Sim-Industries B.V. (Note 14), compared to amounts paid in 2010 of $148 million primarily related to investments in affiliates. In 2009, we paid $435 million for acquisition
activities. In 2010, we received proceeds of $798 million from the sale of EIG, net of $17 million in transaction costs (Note 14). There were no material divestiture activities in 2011 or 2009. During 2011, we decreased our short-term investments by
$510 million compared to an increase of $171 million in 2010.       Financing Activities    
   Share activity and dividends    We paid cash totaling $2.5 billion for share repurchases during 2011, which included
$63 million for shares we repurchased in December 2010 but that were not paid for until January 2011. In 2010 and 2009, we paid cash totaling $2.4 billion and $1.9 billion for share repurchases. Our share repurchase program provides for the
repurchase of our common stock from time-to-time. Under the program, we have discretion to determine the dollar amount of shares to be repurchased and the timing of any repurchases in compliance with applicable law and regulation. In 2011, our Board
authorized an additional $3.5 billion for share repurchases, bringing the total authorized amount under the program to $6.5 billion (Note 11). As of December 31, 2011, we had repurchased a total of 43.0 million shares under the program for
$3.2 billion, and there remained $3.3 billion available for additional share repurchases.      We paid our stockholders cash
dividends of $1.1 billion in 2011, $969 million in 2010, and $908 million in 2009. We have increased our quarterly dividend rate in each of the last three years, including a 33% increase in the quarterly dividend rate in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We declared quarterly dividends of: $.75 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2011 and $1.00 per share for the last quarter; $.63 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2010 and $.75 per share for the last quarter; and
$.57 per share during each of the first three quarters of 2009 and $.63 per share for the last quarter.      Cash received from
the issuance of our common stock in connection with stock option exercises during 2011, 2010, and 2009 totaled $116 million, $59 million, and $40 million. Those activities resulted in the issuance of 2.3 million shares, 1.4 million shares,
and 1.0 million shares during the respective periods.       Issuance and repayment of long-term debt    In 2011, we
issued a total of $2.0 billion of long-term notes. We used a portion of the proceeds from the long-term notes that were issued in 2011 to redeem all of our $500 million long-term notes due in 2013 with a fixed coupon rate of 4.12%. In 2011, we
repurchased $84 million of our long-term notes through open-market purchases. We paid premiums of $48 million in connection with the early extinguishments of certain long-term notes. In 2009, we issued a total of $1.5 billion of long-term notes, and
we paid $242 million in repayments of long-term debt based on scheduled maturities.        Capital Structure, Resources, and Other     
  At December 31, 2011, we held cash and cash equivalents of $3.6 billion. Our long-term debt, net of unamortized discounts, amounted
to $6.5 billion. As of the end of 2011, our long-term debt bears interest at fixed rates and mainly is in the form of publicly-issued notes. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in our debt and credit
agreements.      In 2011, we issued $2.0 billion of long-term notes in a registered public offering consisting of $500 million due
in 2016 with a fixed coupon interest rate of 2.13%, $900 million due in 2021 with a fixed coupon interest rate of 3.35%, and $600 million due in 2041 with a fixed coupon interest rate of 4.85%. We used a portion of the proceeds to redeem all of
our $500 million long-term notes due in 2013 with a fixed coupon rate of 4.12%. In 2011, we repurchased $84 million of our long-term notes through open-market purchases. We paid premiums of $48 million in connection with the early extinguishments of
certain long-term notes.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

   We issued $728 million of new 5.72% Notes due 2040 (the New Notes) in 2010 in exchange for
$611 million of our then outstanding debt securities. We paid a premium of $158 million, of which $117 million was in the form of New Notes and $41 million was paid in cash, which was recorded as a discount and is being amortized as additional
interest expense over the life of the New Notes using the effective interest method. The New Notes are included on our Balance Sheet net of unamortized discounts.      In 2009, we issued a total of $1.5 billion of long-term notes in a registered public offering, $900 million of which are due in 2019 and have a fixed coupon interest rate of 4.25%, and $600 million of
which are due in 2039 and have a fixed coupon interest rate of 5.50%.      In August 2011, we entered into a new $1.5 billion
revolving credit facility with a group of banks and terminated our existing $1.5 billion revolving credit facility which was to expire in June 2012. The new credit facility expires August 2016, and we may request and the banks may grant, at their
discretion, an increase to the new credit facility by an additional amount up to $500 million. There were no borrowings outstanding under either facility through December 31, 2011. Borrowings under the new credit facility would be unsecured and bear
interest at rates based, at our option, on a Eurodollar rate or a Base Rate, as defined in the new credit facility. Each bank s obligation to make loans under the new credit facility is subject to, among other things, our compliance with
various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting our ability and certain of our subsidiaries  ability to encumber assets and a covenant not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the new credit
facility.      We have agreements in place with banking institutions to provide for the issuance of commercial paper. There were
no commercial paper borrowings outstanding during the year ended December 31, 2011. If we were to issue commercial paper, the borrowings would be supported by the new credit facility. We also have an effective shelf registration statement on
Form S-3 on file with the Securities and Exchange Commission through August 2014 to provide for the issuance of an indeterminate amount of debt securities.      We actively seek to finance our business in a manner that preserves financial flexibility while minimizing borrowing costs to the extent practicable. We review changes in financial market and economic
conditions to manage the types, amounts, and maturities of our indebtedness. We may at times refinance existing indebtedness, vary our mix of variable-rate and fixed-rate debt, or seek alternative financing sources for our cash and operational
needs.      Our stockholders  equity was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2011, a decrease of $2.5 billion from December 31,
2010. The decrease primarily was due to the repurchase of 31.8 million common shares for $2.4 billion, dividends declared of $1.1 billion during the year, and net adjustments related to our postretirement benefit plans, including the annual
December 31 re-measurement adjustment of $2.9 billion, which on a net basis increased the accumulated other comprehensive loss by $2.2 billion. These decreases partially were offset by net earnings of $2.7 billion, and employee stock activity
of $596 million. As we repurchase our common shares, we reduce common stock for the $1 of par value of the shares repurchased, with the remainder of the purchase price over par value recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Due to the
volume of repurchases made under our share repurchase program, additional paid-in capital was reduced to zero, with the remainder of the excess of purchase price over par value of $1.8 billion recorded as a reduction of retained earnings.
  
         40   

Table of Contents  

     Contractual Commitments and Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements     
  At December 31, 2011, we had contractual commitments to repay debt, make payments under operating leases, settle obligations related
to agreements to purchase goods and services, and settle tax and other liabilities. Capital lease obligations were negligible. Payments due under these obligations and commitments are as follows:   

(a)      
    Long-term debt includes scheduled principal payments only.         Amounts related to other liabilities represent the contractual obligations for certain long-term liabilities recorded as of December 31, 2011. Such amounts mainly include expected payments under
deferred compensation plans, non-qualified pension plans, environmental liabilities, and business acquisition agreements.   
  Purchase obligations related to operating activities include agreements and contracts that give the supplier recourse to us for
cancellation or nonperformance under the contract or contain terms that would subject us to liquidated damages. Such agreements and contracts may, for example, be related to direct materials, obligations to subcontractors, and outsourcing
arrangements. Total purchase obligations in the preceding table include approximately $23.2 billion related to contractual commitments entered into as a result of contracts we have with our U.S. Government customers. The U.S. Government generally
would be required to pay us for any costs we incur relative to these commitments if they were to terminate the related contracts  for convenience  under the FAR, subject to available funding. This also would be true in cases where we
perform subcontract work for a prime contractor under a U.S. Government contract. The termination for convenience language also may be included in contracts with foreign, state, and local governments. We also have contracts with customers that do
not include termination for convenience provisions, including contracts with commercial customers.      Purchase obligations in
the preceding table for capital expenditures generally include amounts for facilities and equipment related to customer contracts.      We also may enter into industrial cooperation agreements, sometimes referred to as offset agreements, as a condition to obtaining orders for our products and services from certain customers in foreign
countries. These agreements are designed to enhance the social and economic environment of the foreign country by requiring the contractor to promote investment in the country. Offset agreements may be satisfied through activities that do not
require us to use cash, including transferring technology, providing manufacturing and other consulting support to in-country projects, and the purchase by third parties ( e.g.,  our vendors) of supplies from in-country vendors. These
agreements also may be satisfied through our use of cash for such activities as purchasing supplies from in-country vendors, providing financial support for in-country projects, and building or leasing facilities for in-country operations. We
typically do not commit to offset agreements until orders for our products or services are definitive. The amounts ultimately applied against our offset agreements are based on negotiations with the customer and typically require cash outlays that
represent only a fraction of the original amount in the offset agreement. At December 31, 2011, we had outstanding offset agreements totaling $7.6 billion, primarily related to our Aeronautics and Electronic Systems segments, some of which
extend through 2025. To the extent we have entered into purchase obligations at December 31, 2011 that also satisfy offset agreements, those amounts are included in the preceding table. Offset programs usually extend over several years and may
provide for penalties in the event we fail to perform in accordance with offset requirements. We historically have not been required to pay material penalties.      In connection with our 50% ownership interest of United Launch Alliance, L.L.C. (ULA), we and The Boeing Company (Boeing) have each received distributions totaling $352 million (since ULA s formation
in December 2006) which are subject to agreements between us, Boeing, and ULA, whereby, if ULA does not have sufficient cash resources or credit capacity to make payments under the inventory supply agreement it has with Boeing, both we and Boeing
would provide to   
         41   

Table of Contents  

ULA, in the form of an additional capital contribution, the level of funding required for ULA to make those payments. Any such capital contributions would not exceed the amount of the
distributions subject to the agreements. We currently believe that ULA will have sufficient operating cash flows and credit capacity, including access to its $400 million revolving credit agreement from third-party financial institutions, to meet
its obligations such that we would not be required to make a contribution under these agreements.      In addition, both we and
Boeing have cross-indemnified each other for certain financial support arrangements ( e.g. , letters of credit or surety bonds provided by either party) and guarantees by us and Boeing of the performance and financial obligations of ULA under
certain launch service contracts. We believe ULA will be able to fully perform its obligations, as it has done through December 31, 2011, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the cross-indemnities or guarantees.   
  We have entered into standby letters of credit, surety bonds, and third-party guarantees with financial institutions and other third
parties primarily relating to advances received from customers and/or the guarantee of future performance on certain of our contracts. In some cases, we may guarantee the contractual performance of third parties such as joint venture partners. At
December 31, 2011, we had the following outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds, and guarantees:       

(a)      
    Approximately $2.1 billion, $53 million, and $3 million of standby letters of credit in the  Less Than 1 Year,   Years 2 and 3, 
and  Years 4 and 5,  periods, and approximately $32 million of surety bonds, are expected to renew for additional periods until completion of the contractual obligation.      
  Included in the table above is approximately $309 million representing letter of credit amounts for which related obligations or
liabilities are also recorded on the Balance Sheet, either as reductions of inventories, as customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred, or as other liabilities. Approximately $1.8 billion of the standby letters of credit were issued
to secure advance payments received under an F-16 contract from an international customer. These letters of credit are available for draw down in the event of our nonperformance, and the amount available will be reduced as certain events occur
throughout the period of performance in accordance with the contract terms. Similar to the letters of credit for the F-16 contract, other letters of credit and surety bonds are available for draw down in the event of our nonperformance.   
  Approximately 85% of the $907 million in third-party guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2011 related to guarantees of the
contractual performance of joint ventures to which we currently are or previously were a party. This amount represents our estimate of the maximum amount we would expect to incur upon the contractual non-performance of the joint venture partners. We
evaluate the reputation, technical capabilities, and credit quality of potential joint venture partners. In addition, we generally have cross-indemnities in place that may enable us to recover amounts that may be paid on behalf of a joint venture
partner. We believe our current and former joint venture partners will be able to perform their obligations, as they have done through December 31, 2011, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the guarantees.   
    Critical Accounting Policies         Contract
Accounting / Sales Recognition       Approximately 90% of our net sales are derived from long-term contracts for design,
development, and production activities (also referred to as DD P contracts) and services provided to the U.S. Government, and FMS conducted through the U.S. Government. Approximately 95% of our net sales, including net sales related to DD P
contracts with non-U.S. Government customers, are accounted for using the POC method. The POC model requires that significant estimates and assumptions be made in accounting for the contracts. Our remaining net sales are derived from contracts to
provide services to non-U.S. Government customers that are not associated with DD P activities, which we continue to account for under the services accounting model.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

   Beginning January 1, 2011, we evaluate new or significantly modified contracts with
customers other than the U.S. Government, to the extent the contracts include multiple elements, to determine if the individual deliverables should be accounted for as separate units of accounting. When we determine that accounting for the
deliverables as separate units is appropriate, we allocate the contract value to the deliverables based on their relative estimated selling prices. The contracts or contract modifications we evaluate for multiple elements typically are long term in
nature and include the provision of both DD P activities and services. Based on the nature of our business, we generally account for components of such contracts using the POC accounting model or the services accounting model, as appropriate.
This change in accounting has not had a material effect on our financial results, and is not expected to have a material effect in future periods.      We classify net sales as products or services on our Statements of Earnings based on the predominant attributes of the underlying contract. Most of our long-term contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars,
including contracts for sales of military products and services to foreign governments conducted through the U.S. Government. We record sales for both DD P activities and services under cost-reimbursable, fixed-price, and time-and-materials
contracts.        Contract Types         Cost-reimbursable contracts       Cost-reimbursable contracts, which accounted
for about 50% of our total net sales in 2011, provide for the payment of allowable costs incurred during performance of the contract plus a fee, up to a ceiling based on the amount that has been funded. We generate revenue under two general types of
cost-reimbursable contracts: cost-plus-award-fee/incentive fee (which represent a substantial majority of our cost-reimbursable contracts) and cost-plus-fixed-fee contracts.      Cost-plus-award-fee contracts provide for an award fee that varies within specified limits based on the customer s assessment of our performance against a predetermined set of criteria, such as
targets based on cost, quality, technical, and schedule criteria. Cost-plus-incentive-fee contracts provide for reimbursement of costs plus a fee which is adjusted by a formula based on the relationship of total allowable costs to total target costs
(incentive based on cost) or reimbursement of costs plus an incentive to exceed stated performance targets (incentive based on performance). The fixed fee in a cost-plus-fixed-fee contract is negotiated at the inception of the contract and that
fixed fee does not vary with actual costs.       Fixed-price and other contracts    
  Under fixed-price contracts, which accounted for about 45% of our total net sales in 2011, we agree to perform the specified work for a
pre-determined price. To the extent our actual costs vary from the estimates upon which the price was negotiated, we will generate more or less profit, or could incur a loss. Some fixed-price contracts have a performance-based component under which
we may earn incentive payments or incur financial penalties based on our performance.      Under time-and-materials contracts,
which accounted for about 5% of our total net sales in 2011, we are paid a fixed hourly rate for each direct labor hour expended, and we are reimbursed for allowable material costs and allowable out-of-pocket expenses. To the extent our actual
direct labor and associated costs vary in relation to the fixed hourly billing rates provided in the contract, we will generate more or less profit, or could incur a loss.        POC Method of Accounting        We record net sales and an estimated
profit on a POC basis for cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts for DD P activities, and services contracts with the U.S. Government.      The POC method for DD P contracts depends on the nature of the products provided under the contract. For example, for contracts that require us to perform a significant level of development effort in
comparison to the total value of the contract and/or to deliver minimal quantities, sales are recorded using the cost-to-cost method to measure progress toward completion. Under the cost-to-cost method of accounting, we recognize sales and an
estimated profit as costs are incurred based on the proportion that the incurred costs bear to total estimated costs. For contracts that require us to provide a substantial number of similar items without a significant level of development, we
record sales and an estimated profit on a POC basis using units-of-delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract. For contracts to provide services to the U.S. Government, sales are generally recorded using the
cost-to-cost method.      Award fees and incentives, as well as penalties related to contract performance, are considered in
estimating sales and profit rates on contracts accounted for under the POC method. Estimates of award fees are based on past experience and   
         43   

Table of Contents  

anticipated performance. We record incentives or penalties when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings
based solely on a single significant event are not recognized until the event occurs.      Accounting for contracts under the POC
method requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs (including estimating award and incentive fees and penalties related to performance), and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the
number of years it may take to complete many of our contracts and the scope and nature of the work required to be performed on those contracts, the estimation of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables.
     Contract costs include material, labor, and subcontracting costs, as well as an allocation of indirect costs. For many of our
contracts, we are only able to estimate costs in ranges of amounts. Those ranges are based on assumptions we make for variables such as labor productivity and availability, the complexity of the work to be performed, the availability of materials,
the length of time to complete the contract (to estimate increases in wages and prices for materials), performance by our subcontractors, and the availability and timing of funding from our customer, among other variables. When estimates of total
costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined.   
  At the outset of each contract, we estimate the initial profit booking rate. The initial profit booking rate of each contract is based on
the initial estimated costs at completion considering risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements (for example, a newly-developed product versus a mature product), schedule (for example, the number and type of milestone
events), and costs by contract requirements. Business segment personnel evaluate our contracts through periodic reviews. Management personnel independent from the business segment performing work under the contract also perform recurring evaluations
of technical matters, scheduling, and contract costs. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the technical, schedule, and costs aspects of the contract. Likewise, the
profit booking rate may decrease if we are not successful in retiring risks; and, as a result, our estimated costs at completion increase. All of the estimates are subject to change during the performance of the contract and, therefore, may affect
the profit booking rate.      When adjustments in estimated contract revenues or estimated costs at completion are required, any
changes from prior estimates are recognized in the current period for the inception-to-date effect of the changes. For example, if we increase the estimated profit booking rate on a cost-reimbursable contract, the increase in sales and operating
profit for that contract will reflect a higher return on sales in the current period due to the recognition of the higher profit booking rate on both current period costs, as well as previously incurred costs. As examples of how changes in profit
booking rates can affect our financial statements, our net profit booking rate adjustments increased operating profit, net of state taxes, by approximately $1.6 billion, $1.4 billion, and $1.6 billion for 2011, 2010, and 2009, as we were able to
successfully retire risks across a broad portfolio of contracts in those periods.        Services Method of Accounting     
  For cost-reimbursable contracts for services to non-U.S. Government customers that provide for award and incentive fees, we record net
sales as services are performed, exclusive of award and incentive fees. Award and incentive fees are recorded when they are fixed or determinable, generally at the date the amount is communicated to us by the customer. This approach results in the
recognition of such fees at contractual intervals (typically every six months) throughout the contract and is dependent on the customer s processes for notification of awards and issuance of formal notifications. Under a fixed-price service
contract, we are paid a predetermined fixed amount for a specified scope of work and generally have full responsibility for the costs associated with the contract and the resulting profit or loss. We record net sales under fixed-price service
contracts on a straight-line basis over the period of contract performance, unless evidence suggests that net sales are earned or the obligations are fulfilled in a different pattern. Costs for all service contracts are expensed as incurred.
       Other Contract Accounting Considerations        The majority of our sales are driven by pricing based on costs incurred to produce products or perform services under contracts with the U.S. Government. Cost-based pricing is determined under the Federal
Acquisition Regulation (FAR). The FAR provides guidance on the types of costs that are allowable in establishing prices for goods and services under U.S. Government contracts. For example, costs such as those related to charitable contributions,
interest expense, and certain advertising and public relations activities are unallowable and, therefore, not recoverable through sales. In addition, we may enter into advance agreements with the U.S. Government that address the subjects of
allowability and allocability of costs to   
         44   

Table of Contents  

contracts for specific matters. For example, most of the environmental costs we incur for environmental remediation related to sites operated in prior years are allocated to our current
operations as general and administrative costs under FAR provisions and supporting advance agreements reached with the U.S. Government.      We closely monitor compliance with, and the consistent application of, our critical accounting policies related to contract accounting. Costs incurred and allocated to contracts are reviewed for
compliance with U.S. Government regulations by our personnel, and are subject to audit by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.   
   Postretirement Benefit Plans       Many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees (collectively, postretirement benefit plans  
see Note 10). The impact of these plans and benefits on our GAAP earnings may be volatile in that the amount of expense we record for our postretirement benefit plans may materially change from year to year because those calculations are sensitive
to changes in several key economic assumptions, including interest rates and rates of return on plan assets, and workforce demographics. We recognize on a plan-by-plan basis the funded status of our postretirement benefit plans under GAAP as either
an asset or liability on our Balance Sheets, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders  equity. The GAAP funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of
the plan s assets and the benefit obligation of the plan.      The funding of our pension plans is determined in accordance
with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), as amended by the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA). Our goal has been to fund the pension plans to a level of at least 80%, as determined by the PPA. The U.S. Government Cost
Accounting Standards (CAS) govern the extent to which our pension costs are allocable to and recoverable under contracts with the U.S. Government, including FMS. Different actuarial valuations are used for GAAP, ERISA and CAS resulting in three
different measurements of the funded status of our plans.        Actuarial Assumptions     
  GAAP requires that the amounts we record related to our plans be computed using actuarial valuations. The primary year-end assumptions
used to estimate postretirement benefit plan expense for the following calendar year are the discount rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets for all postretirement benefit plans; the rates of increase in future compensation
levels for the participants in our defined benefit pension plans; and the health care cost trend rates for our retiree medical plans. The discount rate we select impacts both the calculation of the benefit obligation at the end of the year and the
calculation of net postretirement benefit plan cost in the subsequent year. The difference between the long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption we select and the actual return on plan assets in any given year affects both the funded status
of our benefit plans and the calculation of net postretirement benefit plan cost in subsequent years. When reassessing these assumptions each year we consider past and current market conditions, and make judgments about future market trends. We also
have to consider factors such as the timing and amounts of expected contributions to the plans and benefit payments to plan participants.      We selected 4.75% as the discount rate for calculating our benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 related to our defined benefit pension plans, compared to 5.5% at the end of 2010 and 5.875% at the end
of 2009. We selected 4.50% as the discount rate for calculating our benefit obligations at December 31, 2011 related to our retiree medical plans, compared to 5.5% at the end of 2010 and 5.875% at the end of 2009. We evaluate several data points in
order to arrive at an appropriate discount rate, including results from cash flow models, quoted rates from long-term bond indices, and changes in long-term bond rates over the past year. As part of our evaluation, we calculate the approximate
average yields on securities that were selected to match our projected postretirement benefit plan cash flows. Our postretirement benefit plan cash flows are input into actuarial models that include data for corporate bonds rated AA or better.
     We concluded that 8.0%   was a reasonable estimate for the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets assumption
at December 31, 2011, as compared to 8.5% used in prior years. The expected long-term rate of return assumption was adjusted downward due to the impact sovereign debt among developed countries may have on the rate of economic growth. The long-term
rate of return assumption represents the expected average rate of earnings on the funds invested, or to be invested, to provide for the benefits included in the plan obligation. This assumption is based on several factors including historical market
index returns, the anticipated long-term allocation of plan assets, the historical return data for the trust funds, plan expenses, and the potential to outperform market index returns. The actual return in any specific year likely will differ from
the assumption, but the average expected return over a long-term future horizon should be approximately equal to the assumption. As a result, changes in this assumption are less frequent than changes in the discount rate.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

   Our stockholders  equity has been reduced by $11.2 billion from the annual year-end
measurement of the funded status of our postretirement benefit plans, inclusive of the December 31, 2011 adjustment of $2.9 billion. These noncash, after-tax amounts primarily represent net actuarial losses resulting from declines in discount rates
and differences between actual experience and our actuarial assumptions, which will be amortized to expense in future periods. During 2011, $666 million of these amounts was recognized as a component of our postretirement benefit plans expense and
$812 million is expected to be recognized as expense in 2012.      We expect that our 2012 pension expense will increase to $1.9
billion as compared with 2011 pension expense of $1.8 billion, primarily due to an increase in the amortization of net actuarial gains and losses caused by the decrease in the discount rate mentioned above.   
  The discount rate assumption we select at the end of each year is based on our best estimates and judgment. A reasonably possible change
of plus or minus 25 basis points in the 4.75% discount rate assumption at December 31, 2011, with all other assumptions held constant, would have decreased or increased the amount of the qualified pension benefit obligation we recorded at the end of
2011 by approximately $1.3 billion, which would have resulted in an after-tax increase or decrease in stockholders  equity at the end of the year of approximately $850 million. If the 4.75% discount rate at December 31, 2011 that was used to
compute the expected 2012 expense for our qualified defined benefit pension plans had been 25 basis points higher or lower, with all other assumptions held constant, the amount of expense projected for 2012 would be lower or higher by approximately
$125 million.        Funding Considerations        The PPA became applicable to us and other large U.S. defense contractors beginning in 2011 and had the effect of accelerating the required amount of annual pension plan contributions. We made
contributions related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans of $2.3 billion in 2011, $2.2 billion in 2010, and $1.5 billion in 2009. We recovered $899 million in 2011, $988 million in 2010 and $580 million in 2009 as CAS costs. Amounts
funded under CAS are recovered over time through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts, including FMS, and are recognized in our cost of sales and net sales. Amounts contributed in excess of the CAS funding
requirements, over $3.0 billion, are considered to be prepayment credits under the CAS rules.      We expect to make contributions
of $1.1 billion related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2012 and anticipate recovering $1.1 billion as CAS cost in 2012 which is consistent with our anticipated contributions. We may review options for further contributions in
2012.      The CAS Board published its revised pension accounting rules (CAS Harmonization) with an effective date of
February 27, 2012 to better align the recovery of pension contributions, including prepayment credits, on U.S. Government contracts with the accelerated funding requirements of the PPA. The CAS Harmonization rules will increase our CAS cost
beginning in 2013. There is a transition period during which the cost impact of the new rules will be phased in, with the full impact occurring in 2017. While we expect our 2013 CAS costs to be higher than our estimate for 2012 of $1.1 billion, the
estimated incremental impact of CAS Harmonization in 2013 will be a very modest cost increase, with much larger increases occurring successively in years 2014 through 2017.      Based upon current assumptions which may change, the increase in CAS costs caused by CAS Harmonization should result in increased earnings a few years from now, as our CAS costs should be in excess of the
pension expense we record under GAAP. Accordingly, our non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment, discussed further in the  Discussion of Business Segments  section above, should eventually increase earnings rather than decrease earnings as it
has the past few years. In addition, the increase in CAS costs should eventually cause our CAS costs to be greater than our pension contributions as we recover the prepayment credits, which should increase our cash flow from operations.   
   Environmental Matters    
  We are a party to various agreements, proceedings, and potential proceedings for environmental cleanup issues, including matters at
various sites where we have been designated a potentially responsible party (PRP) by the EPA or by a state agency. At the end of 2011, the total amount of liabilities recorded on our Balance Sheet for environmental matters was $932 million. We have
recorded receivables totaling $808 million at December 31, 2011 for the portion of environmental costs that are probable of future recovery in pricing of our products and services for agencies of the U.S. Government, as discussed below. The amount
that is expected to be allocated to our non-U.S. Government contracts or that is determined to be unallowable for pricing under U.S. Government contracts has been expensed through cost of sales. We project costs and recovery of costs over
approximately twenty years.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

   We enter into agreements ( e.g.,  administrative orders, consent decrees) that
document the extent and timing of our environmental remediation obligation. We also are involved in remediation activities at environmental sites where formal agreements either do not exist or do not quantify the extent and timing of our obligation.
Environmental cleanup activities usually span many years, which makes estimating the costs more judgmental due to, for example, changing remediation technologies. To determine the costs related to cleanup sites, we have to assess the extent of
contamination, effects on natural resources, the appropriate technology to be used to accomplish the remediation, and evolving regulatory environmental standards.      We perform quarterly reviews of environmental remediation sites and record liabilities and receivables in the period it becomes probable that a liability has been incurred and the amounts can be
reasonably estimated (see the discussion under  Environmental Matters  in Notes 1 and 13 to the financial statements). We consider the above factors in our quarterly estimates of the timing and amount of any future costs that may be
required for remediation actions, which generally results in the calculation of a range of estimates for a particular environmental site. We do not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future cash payments are not fixed or
cannot be reliably determined. Given the required level of judgment and estimation, it is likely that materially different amounts could be recorded if different assumptions were used or if circumstances were to change ( e.g.,  a change in
environmental standards or a change in our estimate of the extent of contamination).      Both the EPA and the California Office
of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment announced plans in January 2011 to regulate two chemicals, perchlorate and hexavalent chromium, to levels in drinking water that are expected to be substantially lower than the existing public health goals
or standards established in California. The rulemaking process is a lengthy one and may take one or more years to complete. If a substantially lower standard is adopted, we would expect a material increase in our estimates for remediation
at several existing sites.      Under agreements reached with the U.S. Government, most of the amounts we spend for environmental
remediation are allocated to our operations as general and administrative costs. Under existing government regulations, these and other environmental expenditures relating to our U.S. Government business, after deducting any recoveries received from
insurance or other PRPs, are allowable in establishing prices of our products and services. As a result, most of the expenditures we incur are included in our net sales and cost of sales according to U.S. Government agreement or regulation,
regardless of the contract form ( e.g.  cost-reimbursable, fixed price). We continually evaluate the recoverability of our environmental receivables by assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our U.S. Government business
base and contract mix, and our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs.      As disclosed above, we may record changes in
the amount of environmental remediation liabilities as a result of our quarterly reviews of the status of our environmental remediation sites, which would result in a change to the corresponding environmental receivable and a charge to earnings. For
example, if we were to determine that the liabilities should be increased by $100 million, the corresponding receivables would be increased by approximately $87 million, with the remainder recorded as a charge to earnings. This allocation is
determined annually, based upon our existing and projected business activities with the U.S. Government.      We cannot reasonably
determine the extent of our financial exposure at all environmental sites with which we are involved. There are a number of former operating facilities we are monitoring or investigating for potential future remediation. In some cases, although a
loss may be probable, it is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the amount of any obligation for remediation activities because of uncertainties ( e.g ., assessing the extent of the contamination). During any particular quarter,
such uncertainties may be resolved to allow us to estimate and recognize the initial liability to remediate a particular former operating site. The amount of the liability could be material. Upon recognition of the liability, a portion will be
recognized as a receivable with the remainder charged to operations.      If we are ultimately found to have liability at those
sites where we have been designated a PRP, we expect that the actual costs of remediation will be shared with other liable PRPs. Generally, PRPs that are ultimately determined to be responsible parties are strictly liable for site cleanup and
usually agree among themselves to share, on an allocated basis, the costs and expenses for investigation and remediation. Under existing environmental laws, responsible parties are jointly and severally liable and, therefore, we are potentially
liable for the full cost of funding such remediation. In the unlikely event that we were required to fund the entire cost of such remediation, the statutory framework provides that we may pursue rights of cost recovery or contribution from the other
PRPs. The amounts we record do not reflect the fact that we may recover some of the environmental costs we have incurred through insurance or from other PRPs, which we are required to pursue by agreement and U.S. Government regulation.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

    Goodwill       Our goodwill at December 31, 2011 and 2010 amounted to $10.1 billion and $9.6 billion. We review goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
the carrying value of goodwill may not be recoverable. Such events or circumstances could include significant changes in the business climate of our industry, operating performance indicators, competition, or sale or disposal of a portion of a
reporting unit. The assessment is performed at the reporting unit level. Our annual testing date is October 1.   
  Performing the goodwill impairment test requires judgment, including how we define reporting units and determine their fair value. We
consider a component of our business to be a reporting unit if it constitutes a business for which discrete financial information is available and management regularly reviews the operating results of that component. We estimate the fair value of
each reporting unit using a combination of a discounted cash flow (DCF) analysis and market-based valuation methodologies. Determining fair value requires the exercise of significant judgments, including judgments about appropriate discount rates,
perpetual growth rates, relevant comparable company earnings multiples and the amount and timing of expected future cash flows. The cash flows employed in the DCF analyses are based on our best estimate of future sales and operating costs, based
primarily on existing firm orders, expected future orders, contracts with suppliers, labor agreements, and general market conditions. The discount rate applied to our forecasts of future cash flows is based on our estimated weighted average cost of
capital. In assessing the reasonableness of our determined fair values, we evaluate our results against other value indicators such as comparable company public trading values, research analyst estimates and values observed in market transactions.
Changes in these estimates and assumptions could materially affect the determination of fair value and/or goodwill impairment for each reporting unit.      We evaluate goodwill for impairment by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value, we measure
impairment by comparing the derived fair value of goodwill to its carrying value, and any impairment determined is recorded in the current period.      We completed our assessment of goodwill as of October 1, 2011 and determined that the estimated fair value of each reporting unit exceeded its corresponding carrying amount and, as such, no impairment
existed at that date. Changes in estimates and assumptions we make in conducting our goodwill assessment could affect the estimated fair value of one or more of our reporting units and could result in a goodwill impairment charge in a future period.
However, we currently do not believe that any of our reporting units are at risk of failing a goodwill impairment test in the near term, as their fair values are significantly greater than their carrying values.   
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements        The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued new accounting standards that are not effective until after December 31, 2011. For additional information, see the  Recent accounting
pronouncements  section within Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         We maintain active relationships with a broad and diverse group of domestic and international financial institutions. We believe that they provide us with sufficient access to the general and trade credit
we require to conduct business. We continue to closely monitor the financial market environment and actively manage counterparty exposure to minimize the potential impact from adverse developments with any single credit provider while ensuring
availability of, and access to, sufficient credit resources.      Our main exposure to market risk relates to interest rates,
foreign currency exchange rates, and market prices on certain equity securities. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate long-term debt. At December 31, 2011, the estimated fair value of
our long-term debt instruments was approximately $7.8 billion, compared with a carrying value of $7.0 billion, excluding unamortized discounts of $506 million. A 10% change in the level of interest rates would not have a material impact on the fair
value of our long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2011.      We use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure
to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into to manage the exchange rate risk of forecasted foreign currency denominated cash receipts and cash payments. The majority of
our foreign currency exchange contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. We also use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. Our financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk
principally include fixed-rate, long-term debt. Our interest rate swap   
         48   

Table of Contents  

contracts are designated as fair value hedges. Related gains and losses on foreign currency exchange and interest rate swap contracts, to the extent they are effective hedges, are recognized in
earnings at the same time the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. To the extent the hedges are ineffective, gains and losses on the contracts are recognized in current period earnings. The aggregate notional amount of the outstanding
foreign currency exchange contracts at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion. The aggregate notional amount of our interest rate swap contracts at December 31, 2011 was $450 million. There were no interest rate swap
contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010. At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the net fair value of our derivative instruments was not material (Note 15). A 10% appreciation or devaluation of the hedged currency as compared to the
level of foreign exchange rates for currencies under contract at December 31, 2011 would not have a material impact on the aggregate net fair value of such contracts or our cash flows.   
  We evaluate the credit quality of potential counterparties to derivative transactions and only enter into agreements with those deemed to
have acceptable credit risk at the time the agreements are executed. Our foreign currency exchange hedge portfolio is diversified across several banks. We periodically monitor changes to counterparty credit quality as well as our concentration of
credit exposure to individual counterparties. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.      We maintain a Rabbi Trust that includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans. As of December 31, 2011, investments in the Rabbi Trust totaled $781 million and
are reflected at fair value on our Balance Sheet in other assets. The Rabbi Trust holds investments in marketable equity securities and fixed-income securities that are exposed to price changes and changes in interest rates. Changes in the value of
the Rabbi Trust are recognized on our Statement of Earnings in other non-operating income, net, and were not material during 2011. A portion of the liabilities associated with the deferred compensation plans supported by the Rabbi Trust is also
impacted by changes in the market price of our common stock and certain market indices. Changes in the value of the deferred compensation liabilities are recognized on our Statement of Earnings in unallocated corporate costs and were not material
during 2011. The current portion of the deferred compensation plan liabilities is on our Balance Sheet in salaries, benefits, and payroll taxes, and the non-current portion of the liability is on our Balance Sheet in other liabilities. The resulting
change in the value of the liabilities has the effect of partially offsetting the impact of changes in the value of the Rabbi Trust.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA           Report of Ernst   Young LLP,          Independent Registered Public Accounting
Firm,          on the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements        Board of Directors and Stockholders      Lockheed Martin Corporation   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Lockheed Martin Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Corporation s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Lockheed Martin Corporation at December 31, 2011 and 2010, and
the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2011, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Lockheed Martin
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP   
  McLean, Virginia      February 23, 2012
  
         50   

Table of Contents  

       Lockheed Martin Corporation     
     Consolidated Statements of Earnings     

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         51   

Table of Contents  

       Lockheed Martin Corporation     
     Consolidated Balance Sheets     

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         52   

Table of Contents  

       Lockheed Martin Corporation     
     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows     

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         53   

Table of Contents  

       Lockheed Martin Corporation     
     Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity     

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.    
         54   

Table of Contents  

       Lockheed Martin Corporation     
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
     Note 1   Significant Accounting Policies     
    Organization    We are a global security and aerospace company principally engaged in the research, design,
development, manufacture, integration, and sustainment of advanced technology systems and products. We also provide a broad range of management, engineering, technical, scientific, logistic, and information services. We serve both domestic and
international customers with products and services that have defense, civil, and commercial applications, with our principal customers being agencies of the U.S. Government.       Basis of presentation    Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of subsidiaries we control and other entities for which we are the primary beneficiary. We eliminate
intercompany balances and transactions in consolidation. Our receivables, inventories, customer advances and amounts in excess of costs incurred, and certain amounts in other current liabilities primarily are attributable to long-term contracts or
programs in progress for which the related operating cycles are longer than one year. In accordance with industry practice, we include these items in current assets and current liabilities. Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current year s presentation, which are discussed elsewhere in our footnotes. Unless otherwise noted, we present all per share amounts cited in these consolidated financial statements on a  per diluted share  basis from
continuing operations.       Use of estimates    We prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). In doing so, we are required to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Our actual results may differ from those
estimates. Significant estimates inherent in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements include, but are not limited to, sales recognition, postretirement benefit plans, environmental receivables and liabilities, and contingencies.
      Receivables    Receivables include amounts billed and currently due from customers, and unbilled costs and accrued
profits primarily related to sales on long-term contracts that have been recognized but not yet billed to customers. Pursuant to contract provisions, agencies of the U.S. Government and certain other customers have title to, or a security interest
in, assets related to such contracts as a result of advances, performance-based payments, and progress payments. We reflect those advances and payments as an offset to the related receivables balance.   
   Inventories    We record inventories at the lower of cost or estimated net realizable value. Costs on long-term contracts and
programs in progress represent recoverable costs incurred for production or contract-specific facilities and equipment, allocable operating overhead, advances to suppliers and, in the case of contracts with the U.S. Government, research and
development and general and administrative expenses. Pursuant to contract provisions, agencies of the U.S. Government and certain other customers have title to, or a security interest in, inventories related to such contracts as a result of
advances, performance-based payments, and progress payments. We reflect those advances and payments as an offset against the related inventory balances. We determine the costs of other product and supply inventories by the first-in first-out or
average cost methods.       Property, plant and equipment    We include property, plant, and equipment on our Balance
Sheets at cost. We provide for depreciation and amortization on plant and equipment generally using accelerated methods during the first half of the estimated useful lives of the assets, and the straight-line method thereafter. The estimated useful
lives of our plant and equipment generally range from 10 to 40 years for buildings and five to 15 years for machinery and equipment. No depreciation expense is recorded on construction in progress until such assets are placed into operation.
Depreciation expense related to plant and equipment was $712 million in 2011, $749 million in 2010, and $750 million in 2009.   
  We review the carrying values of long-lived assets for impairment if events or changes in the facts and circumstances indicate that their
carrying values may not be recoverable. We assess impairment by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the related asset to its carrying value. If an asset is determined to be impaired, we recognize an impairment charge in the
current period for the difference between the fair value of the asset and its carrying value.       Capitalized software
   We capitalize certain costs associated with the development or purchase of internal-use software. The amounts capitalized are included in other assets on our Balance Sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated
useful life of the resulting software, which ranges from two to six years. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, capitalized software totaled $864 million and $899 million, net of accumulated amortization of $1.3 billion and $1.1 billion. Amortization
expense related to capitalized software was $211 million in 2011, $211 million in 2010, and   
         55   

Table of Contents  

$160 million in 2009. In 2011, we revised the classification of cash payments associated with the development or purchase of internal-use software from operating cash flows to investing cash
flows. Cash flows for all years above have been adjusted for this change. Cash payments for internal-use software were $173 million in 2011, $254 million in 2010, and $314 million in 2009.   
   Goodwill    We evaluate goodwill for potential impairment annually on October 1, or whenever impairment indicators are
present. Our evaluation includes comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit, using a combination of a discounted cash flow analysis and market-based valuation methodologies, to its carrying value, including goodwill. If the carrying
value exceeds the estimated fair value, we measure impairment by comparing the derived fair value of goodwill to its carrying value, and any impairment determined is recorded in the current period. We define reporting units at the business segment
level or one level below the business segment. We completed our assessment of goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010, and did not identify any impairment.       Customer advances and amounts in excess of cost incurred    We receive advances, performance-based payments, and progress payments from customers that may exceed costs incurred on certain
contracts, including contracts with agencies of the U.S. Government. We classify such advances, other than those reflected as a reduction of receivables or inventories as discussed above, as current liabilities.   
   Postretirement benefit plans    Many of our employees are covered by defined benefit pension plans, and we provide certain
health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). GAAP requires that the amounts we record related to our postretirement benefit plans be computed using actuarial valuations that are based in
part on certain key assumptions we make, including the discount rate, the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, the rates of increase in future compensation levels, and health care cost trend rates, each as appropriate based on the
nature of the plans. We recognize on a plan-by-plan basis the funded status of our postretirement benefit plans under GAAP as either an asset (recorded within other assets) or liability (recorded within noncurrent liabilities) on our Balance Sheets,
with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, in stockholders  equity. The GAAP funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan s assets and the benefit obligation of
the plan. The funded status under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) is calculated on a different basis than under GAAP.       Environmental matters    We record a liability for environmental matters when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount of
liability recorded is based on our estimate of the costs to be incurred for remediation at a particular site. We do not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future cash payments are not fixed or cannot be reliably
determined. Our environmental liabilities are recorded on our Balance Sheets within other liabilities, both current and non-current. We expect to include a substantial portion of environmental costs in net sales and cost of sales in future periods
pursuant to U.S. Government agreement or regulation. At the time a liability is recorded for future environmental costs, we record a receivable for estimated future recovery considered probable through the pricing of products and services to
agencies of the U.S. Government, regardless of the contract form ( e.g. , cost-reimbursable, fixed-price). We continuously evaluate the recoverability of our environmental receivables by assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government
regulations, our U.S. Government business base and contract mix, and our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs. We include the portion of those costs expected to be allocated to our non-U.S. Government contracts or that is determined to
be unallowable for pricing under U.S. Government contracts in cost of sales at the time the liability is established. Our environmental receivables are recorded on our Balance Sheets within other assets (current and non-current). We project costs
and recovery of costs over approximately twenty years.       Sales and earnings    We record net sales and estimated
profits for approximately 95% of our contracts using the percentage-of-completion (POC) method (as described below) for cost-reimbursable and fixed-price contracts for design, development, and production (DD P) activities, and services contracts
with the U.S. Government. Sales are recorded on all time-and-materials contracts as the work is performed based on agreed-upon hourly rates and allowable costs. We account for our services contracts with non-U.S. Government customers using the
services method of accounting (as described below). We classify net sales as products or services on our Statements of Earnings based on the attributes of the underlying contracts.   
   POC Method of Accounting    The POC method for DD P contracts depends on the nature of the products provided under the
contract. For example, for contracts that require us to perform a significant level of development effort in comparison to the total value of the contract and/or to deliver minimal quantities, sales are recorded using the cost-to-cost method to
measure progress toward completion. Under the cost-to-cost method of accounting, we recognize sales and an   
         56   

Table of Contents  

estimated profit as costs are incurred based on the proportion that the incurred costs bear to total estimated costs. For contracts that require us to provide a substantial number of similar
items without a significant level of development, we record sales and an estimated profit on a POC basis using units-of-delivery as the basis to measure progress toward completing the contract. For contracts to provide services to the U.S.
Government, sales are generally recorded using the cost-to-cost method.      Award fees and incentives, as well as penalties
related to contract performance, are considered in estimating sales and profit rates on contracts accounted for under the POC method. Estimates of award fees are based on past experience and anticipated performance. We record incentives or penalties
when there is sufficient information to assess anticipated contract performance. Incentive provisions that increase or decrease earnings based solely on a single significant event are not recognized until the event occurs.   
  Accounting for contracts under the POC method requires judgment relative to assessing risks, estimating contract revenues and costs
(including estimating award and incentive fees and penalties related to performance), and making assumptions for schedule and technical issues. Due to the scope and nature of the work required to be performed on many of our contracts, the estimation
of total revenue and cost at completion is complicated and subject to many variables and, accordingly, is subject to change. When adjustments in estimated contract revenues or estimated costs at completion are required, any changes from prior
estimates are recognized in the current period for the inception-to-date effect of such changes. When estimates of total costs to be incurred on a contract exceed total estimates of revenue to be earned, a provision for the entire loss on the
contract is recorded in the period in which the loss is determined.      At the outset of each contract, we estimate the initial
profit booking rate. The initial profit booking rate of each contract is based on the initial estimated costs at completion considering risks surrounding the ability to achieve the technical requirements (for example, a newly-developed product
versus a mature product), schedule (for example, the number and type of milestone events), and costs by contract requirements. Profit booking rates may increase during the performance of the contract if we successfully retire risks surrounding the
technical, schedule, and costs aspects of the contract, or may decrease if we are not successful in retiring risks and, as a result, our estimated costs at completion increase.   
  Our net profit booking rate adjustments resulting from changes in estimates increased operating profit, net of state taxes, by
approximately $1.6 billion in 2011, $1.4 billion in 2010, and $1.6 billion in 2009. These adjustments increased net earnings by approximately $1.0 billion ($3.00 per share) in 2011, $890 million ($2.40 per share) in 2010, and $1.0 billion ($2.60 per
share) in 2009.       Services Method of Accounting    For cost-reimbursable contracts for services to non-U.S.
Government customers, we record net sales as services are performed, except for award and incentive fees. Award and incentive fees are recorded when they are fixed or determinable, generally at the date the amount is communicated to us by the
customer. This approach results in the recognition of such fees at contractual intervals (typically every six months) throughout the contract and is dependent on the customer s processes for notification of awards and issuance of formal
notifications. Under fixed-price service contracts, we are paid a predetermined fixed amount for a specified scope of work and generally have full responsibility for the costs associated with the contract and the resulting profit or loss. We record
net sales under fixed-price service contracts with non-U.S. Government customers on a straight-line basis over the period of contract performance, unless evidence suggests that net sales are earned or the obligations are fulfilled in a different
pattern. Costs for all service contracts are expensed as incurred.       Change in Accounting Principle and Adoption of New
Accounting Standard    On January 1, 2011, we changed the way we account for our services contracts with the U.S. Government. We now recognize sales on those contracts using the POC method (as described above). All prior period amounts
have been adjusted to reflect the new method of accounting. The effect of this change in accounting was not material to our consolidated results of operations or financial position for any period, including 2011, and did not impact cash flows. At
December 31, 2010, the cumulative effect of adopting the new method was a reduction in retained earnings of $211 million, which reflects the inception-to-date timing differences between the two methods. We believe the POC method is preferable
to the service accounting method we previously used, as consistent sales recognition for all contracts with the U.S. Government better reflects the underlying economics of those contracts and aligns our financial reporting with other companies in
our industry.      On January 1, 2011, we prospectively adopted a new accounting standard that revised accounting guidance
related to sales arrangements with multiple deliverables. This standard potentially applies to new or materially modified contracts that are not accounted for under the POC method. The adoption did not have a material effect on our financial results
in 2011, and is not expected to have a material effect in future periods.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

    Research and development and similar costs    Except for certain arrangements
described below, we account for independent research and development costs as part of the general and administrative costs that are allocated among all of our contracts and programs in progress under U.S. Government contractual arrangements. Costs
for product development initiatives we sponsor that are not otherwise allocable are charged to expense when incurred. Under some arrangements in which a customer shares in product development costs, our portion of unreimbursed costs is expensed as
incurred. Independent research and development costs charged to cost of sales totaled $585 million in 2011, $639 million in 2010, and $717 million in 2009. Costs we incur under customer-sponsored research and development programs pursuant to
contracts are included in net sales and cost of sales.       Investments in marketable securities    Investments in
marketable securities consist of debt and equity securities and are classified as either available-for-sale securities or trading securities. If classified as available-for-sale securities, unrealized gains and losses are reflected net of income
taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss on the Statements of Stockholders  Equity. If classified as trading securities, unrealized gains and losses are recorded in other non-operating income, net on the Statements of Earnings. If declines
in the value of available-for-sale securities are determined to be other than temporary, a loss is recorded in earnings in the current period. We make such determinations by considering, among other factors, the length of time the fair value of the
investment has been less than the carrying value, future business prospects for the investee, and information regarding market and industry trends for the investee s business, if available. For purposes of computing realized gains and losses on
marketable securities, we determine cost on a specific identification basis.      Available-for-sale securities are recorded at
fair value and classified as short-term investments on the Balance Sheets. Our available-for-sale securities as of December 31, 2010 consisted primarily of U.S. Treasury securities with a fair value of approximately $500 million, which matured
during 2011. The cost basis of these securities was not materially different from their respective fair value as of December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the fair value of our trading securities totaled $781 million and $843
million and was included in other assets on the Balance Sheets. Our trading securities are held in a Rabbi Trust, which includes investments to fund certain of our non-qualified deferred compensation plans.   
  Net gains on marketable securities in 2011, 2010, and 2009 were $40 million, $56 million, and $110 million and were included in other
non-operating income, net on the Statements of Earnings. Included in these amounts are net unrealized gains (losses) on trading securities of $(24) million in 2011, $24 million in 2010, and $115 million in 2009.   
   Equity method investments    Investments where we have the ability to exercise significant influence over, but do not control,
are accounted for under the equity method of accounting and are included in other assets on the Balance Sheets. Significant influence typically exists if we have a 20% to 50% ownership interest in the investee. Under this method of accounting, our
share of the net earnings or losses of the investee is included in operating profit in other income, net on the Statements of Earnings since the activities of the investee are closely aligned with the operations of the business segment holding the
investment. We evaluate our equity method investments for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts of such investments may be impaired. If a decline in the value of an equity method investment is
determined to be other than temporary, a loss is recorded in earnings in the current period. As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, our equity method investments totaled $697 million and $671 million, and our share of net earnings related to these
investments was $332 million in 2011, $312 million in 2010, and $278 million in 2009.       Derivative financial instruments 
  We use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Foreign currency exchange contracts are entered into to manage the exchange rate risk of forecasted foreign
currency denominated cash receipts and cash payments. The majority of our foreign currency exchange contracts are designated as cash flow hedges. We also use derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to changes in interest rates. Our
financial instruments that are subject to interest rate risk principally include fixed-rate, long-term debt. Our interest rate swap contracts are designated as fair value hedges. We do not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading
or speculative purposes.      We record derivatives at their fair value. The classification of gains and losses resulting from
changes in the fair values of derivatives is dependent on our intended use of the derivative and its resulting designation. Adjustments to reflect changes in fair values of derivatives attributable to the effective portion of hedges are either
reflected in earnings and largely offset by corresponding adjustments to the hedged items, or reflected net of income taxes in accumulated other comprehensive loss until the hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. Changes in the fair value of
the derivatives that are attributable to the ineffective portion of the hedges, or of derivatives that are not considered to be highly effective hedges, if any, are immediately recognized in earnings. The aggregate notional amount of our outstanding
foreign currency exchange contracts   
         58   

Table of Contents  

at December 31, 2011 and 2010 was $1.7 billion and $2.2 billion. The aggregate notional amount of our outstanding interest rate swap contracts at December 31, 2011 was $450 million, and
we had no interest rate swap contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010. The effect of our derivative instruments on our Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009, and on our Balance Sheets as of
December 31, 2011 and 2010 was not material. See Note 15 for further discussion on the fair value measurements related to our derivative instruments.       Stock-based compensation    Compensation cost related to all share-based payments (stock options and restricted stock units) is measured at the grant date based on the estimated fair value of
the award. We generally recognize the compensation cost ratably over a three-year vesting period.       Income taxes   
We periodically assess our tax filing exposures related to periods that are open to examination. Based on the latest available information, we evaluate tax positions to determine whether the position will more likely than not be sustained upon
examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). If we cannot reach a more-likely-than-not determination, no benefit is recorded. If we determine that the tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, we record the largest amount of
benefit that is more likely than not to be realized when the tax position is settled. We record interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense on our Statements of Earnings.   
   Comprehensive income (loss)    Comprehensive income (loss) and its components are presented on the Statements of
Stockholders  Equity.      Accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of the following:   
   
     Recent accounting pronouncements    In June 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued a new standard, which eliminates the option to present other comprehensive income (OCI) in the statement of stockholders  equity and instead requires net income, the components of OCI, and total comprehensive income to be
presented in either one continuous statement or two separate but consecutive statements. The standard also requires that items reclassified from OCI to net income be presented on the face of the financial statements; however, in December 2011, the
FASB deferred this requirement. The new standard will be effective for us beginning with our first quarter 2012 reporting and will be applied retrospectively. The adoption of the new standard or the deferred requirement will not have an effect on
our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows as it only requires a change in the presentation of OCI in our consolidated financial statements.      In September 2011, the FASB issued a new standard which amends the existing guidance on goodwill impairment testing. The new standard allows an entity the option to first assess qualitative factors to
determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. If this is the case, the entity will need to perform a more detailed two-step goodwill impairment test which is used to identify
potential goodwill impairments and to measure the amount of goodwill impairment losses to be recognized, if any. The standard will be effective for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests performed by us after December 31, 2011, and will
not have an effect on the measurement of goodwill impairment, if any.   
     Note 2   Severance and Other Charges     
   During 2011, we recorded charges related to certain severance actions totaling $136 million, net of state tax
benefits. Of these severance charges, $49 million and $48 million related to our Aeronautics and Space Systems business segments, and $39 million related to our Information Systems   Global Solutions (IS GS) business segment and Corporate
Headquarters. These charges reduced our net earnings in 2011 by $88 million ($.26 per share). These severance actions resulted from a strategic review of these businesses and our Corporate Headquarters to better align our organization and cost
structure with changing economic conditions. The workforce reductions at the business segments also reflect changes in program lifecycles, where several of our major programs are transitioning out of development and into production, and certain
programs are ending. The charges consisted of severance costs associated with the planned elimination of certain positions through either voluntary or involuntary actions. Upon separation, terminated employees receive lump-sum severance payments
based on years of service, which are expected to be paid through the first half of 2012. During 2011, we made approximately half of the severance payments associated with the total severance charges.   
         59   

Table of Contents  

   In 2010, we recorded a charge of $178 million, net of state tax benefits, related to the
Voluntary Executive Separation Program (VESP). The charge, which included lump-sum special payments for qualifying executives, reduced our net earnings by $116 million ($.31 per share). The amounts of the VESP attributable to our business segments
were $25 million at Aeronautics, $38 million at Electronic Systems, $42 million at IS GS, and $41 million at Space Systems. The remaining $32 million was attributable to our Corporate Headquarters. The effective date of termination of
employment for most participants was February 1, 2011, with the lump-sum special payments to be made within 90 days from separation of service. As of December 31, 2011, all payments under the VESP have been made.   
  In 2010, our Electronic Systems business segment decided to consolidate certain of its operations, including the closure of a facility in
Eagan, Minnesota. Accordingly, we recorded a charge to cost of sales, net of state tax benefits, of $42 million which reduced our net earnings for 2010 by $27 million ($.07 per share). The majority of the charge was associated with the accrual of
severance payments to employees, with the remainder associated with impairment of assets. We expect to complete these activities by 2013.   
     Note 3   Earnings Per Share     
   We compute basic and diluted per share amounts based on net earnings for the periods presented. We use the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding during the period to calculate basic earnings per share. Our calculation of diluted per share amounts includes the dilutive effects of stock options and restricted stock units based on the treasury stock
method. Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding were as follows:       
    Stock options to purchase 13.4 million, 14.7 million, and 11.5 million shares of common
stock outstanding at December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 were not included in the computation of diluted weighted average shares outstanding, as their effect would have been anti-dilutive.   
     Note 4   Information on Business Segments     
   We operate in four business segments: Aeronautics, Electronic Systems, IS GS, and Space Systems. We organize our
business segments based on the nature of the products and services offered. The following is a brief description of the activities of our business segments:       

Aeronautics    Engaged in the research, design, development, manufacture, integration, sustainment, support, and upgrade of advanced
military aircraft, including combat and air mobility aircraft, unmanned air vehicles, and related technologies. Aeronautics also provides logistics support, sustainment, and upgrade modification services for its aircraft. Aeronautics  major
programs include the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter, F-16 Fighting Falcon, F-22 Raptor, C-130J Hercules, and the C-5M Super Galaxy.          

Electronic Systems    Provides surface ship and submarine combat systems; sea-based missile defense systems; ship systems integration;
littoral combat ships; nuclear instrumentation and control systems for naval submarines, aircraft carriers, and surface warships; air and defense missile systems; air-to-ground precision strike weapons systems; tactical missiles; munitions; fire
control and navigation systems for rotary and fixed-wing aircraft; manned and unmanned ground vehicles; mission operations support, readiness, engineering support, and integration services; simulation and training services; and energy programs.
Electronic Systems  major programs include the Aegis Combat System, Patriot Advanced Capability-3, Terminal High Altitude Area Defense, Multiple Launch Rocket System, Hellfire, Joint Air-to-Surface Standoff Missile, Apache Fire Control System,
Littoral Combat Ship, and Special Operations Forces Contractor Logistics Support Services.          

Information Systems   Global Solutions    Provides management services, Information Technology (IT) solutions, and advanced
technology expertise across a broad spectrum of applications. IS GS supports the needs of customers in human capital planning, data protection and sharing, cyber-security, financial services, health care, energy and environment, security, space
exploration, biometrics, and transportation. IS GS provides network-enabled situation awareness, delivers communications and command and control capability through complex mission solutions for defense applications, and
     
         60   

Table of Contents  

integrates complex global systems to help our customers gather, analyze, and securely distribute critical intelligence data. IS GS has a portfolio of many smaller contracts as compared to our
other business segments. IS GS  major programs include the Command and Control, Battle Management, and Communications contract, En-Route Automation Modernization contract, the Hanford Mission Support contract, and the National Science
Foundation s U.S. Antarctic Support program.          

Space Systems    Engaged in the design, research and development, engineering, and production of satellites, strategic and defensive missile
systems, and space transportation systems, including activities related to the planned replacement of the Space Shuttle. Space Systems is responsible for various classified systems and services in support of vital national security systems. Space
Systems  major programs include the Trident II D5 Fleet Ballistic Missile, Space-Based Infrared System, Orion Multi-Purpose Crew Vehicle, Advanced Extremely High Frequency system, Global Positioning Satellite III system, and Mobile User
Objective System. Space Systems has an ownership interest in United Launch Alliance, which provides expendable launch services for the U.S. Government, and in United Space Alliance, which provided processing activities for the Space Shuttle, which
is winding down following the completion of the last mission in 2011.         The financial information in the
following tables below excludes businesses included in discontinued operations (Note 14) for all periods presented. Also, the 2011 financial information in the following tables includes the results of QTC Holdings Inc. (QTC) in the IS GS
business segment information and Sim-Industries B.V. in the Electronic Systems business segment information from the date of acquisition in the fourth quarter through the end of the year (Note 14).   
  The following table presents net sales and operating profit of our four business segments. Net sales exclude intersegment revenue, as
these activities are eliminated in consolidation. Intercompany transactions are generally negotiated under terms and conditions similar to other government and commercial contracts. Operating profit of the business segments includes the equity
earnings or losses from investees in which certain of our business segments hold equity interests, because the activities of the investees are closely aligned with the operations of those segments.   
  Operating profit of the business segments excludes the non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment discussed below; expense for certain
stock-based compensation programs including costs for stock options and restricted stock units; the effects of items not considered part of management s evaluation of segment operating performance, such as severance charges in 2011 and the
charges in 2010 related to the VESP and facilities consolidation within Electronic Systems (Note 2); gains or losses from divestitures (Note 14); the effects of legal settlements; corporate costs not allocated to the business segments; and other
miscellaneous corporate activities. The items other than the charges related to severance, the VESP, and facilities consolidation are included in  Other unallocated corporate expense, net  in the following table which reconciles operating
profit from the business segments to operating profit in our Statements of Earnings. The charges related to severance, the VESP, and facilities consolidation are presented together as a separate reconciling item.   
  The results of operations of our business segments include pension expense only as determined and funded in accordance with U.S.
Government Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) rules. The non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment represents the difference between pension expense or income calculated in accordance with GAAP and pension costs calculated and funded in accordance with CAS.
CAS is a major factor in determining our pension funding requirements, and governs the extent to which pension costs can be allocated to and recovered on U.S. Government contracts. The CAS expense is recovered through the pricing of our products and
services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, is recognized in each of our business segments  net sales and cost of sales.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

    Selected Financial Data by Business Segment    

62   

Table of Contents  

    Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued)    

(a)   
        Operating profit
included equity in net earnings (losses) of equity investees as follows:          

(b)      
    Severance and other charges include the severance charges recorded in 2011 associated with Aeronautics, IS GS, and Space Systems business segments,
and Corporate Headquarters, and for 2010, included the charges related to the VESP and facilities consolidation within Electronic Systems (Note 2).      

(c)   
        Other unallocated
corporate expense, net included the following:          
     Net Sales by Customer Category        

(a)      
    Sales made to foreign governments through the U.S. Government (i.e., foreign military sales) are included in the  International  category.
        Our Aeronautics business segment includes our largest program, the F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter,
an international multi-role, stealth fighter. F-35 program related net sales represented approximately 13%, 12%, and 10% of our total net sales during 2011, 2010, and 2009.   
         63   

Table of Contents  

    Selected Financial Data by Business Segment (continued)    

(a)      
    We have no significant long-lived assets located in foreign countries.      

(b)      
    Corporate assets primarily include cash and cash equivalents, short-term investments, deferred income taxes, environmental receivables, and investments
held in a Rabbi Trust.      

(c)      
    During 2011, the increase in goodwill primarily was due to the acquisition of QTC and Sim-Industries B.V. In 2010, goodwill decreased primarily due to
the sale of Enterprise Integration Group (EIG) and the reclassification of Pacific Architects and Engineers, Inc. s (PAE) assets and liabilities to discontinued operations in 2010 (Note 14).      
     Note 5   Receivables, net     
   Receivables consisted of the following components:   
   
    We expect to bill substantially all of the December 31, 2011 unbilled costs and accrued profits
during 2012.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

Note 6   Inventories, net     
   Inventories consisted of the following components:   
   
    Work-in-process inventories at December 31, 2011 and 2010 included general and administrative costs
of $592 million and $518 million. During 2011, 2010, and 2009, general and administrative costs incurred and recorded in inventories totaled $2.3 billion, $2.3 billion, and $2.4 billion, and general and administrative costs charged to cost of sales
from inventories totaled $2.2 billion, $2.4 billion, and $2.1 billion.   
     Note 7   Property, Plant and Equipment, net     
   Property, plant and equipment consisted of the following components:   

Note 8   Income Taxes     
   Our provision for federal and foreign income tax expense for continuing operations consisted of the following
components:       
    State income taxes are included in our operations as general and administrative costs and, under U.S.
Government regulations, are allowable in establishing prices for the products and services we sell to the U.S. Government. Therefore, a substantial portion of state income taxes is included in our net sales and cost of sales. As a result, the impact
of certain transactions on our operating profit and of other matters disclosed in these financial statements is disclosed net of state income taxes. Our total net state income tax expense was $149 million for 2011, $168 million for 2010 (including
state income taxes related to the sale of EIG), and $144 million for 2009.      The amount of net interest and penalties
recognized as a component of income tax expense during 2011, 2010, and 2009, as well as the amount of interest and penalties accrued at December 31, 2011 and 2010, was not material.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

   Our reconciliation of the 35% U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to actual income tax
expense for continuing operations is as follows:       
    Our U.S. manufacturing activity benefit is based on income derived from qualified production activity
(QPA) in the U.S. The deduction rate, which was 9% for both 2011 and 2010, and 6% for 2009, is applied against QPA income to arrive at the deduction. The increased benefit in 2011 and 2010 was due to an increase in QPA income, as well as the higher
deduction rate in 2011 and 2010 compared to 2009.        We receive a tax deduction for dividends paid on shares of our
common stock held by certain of our defined contribution plans with an employee stock ownership plan (ESOP) feature. The amount of the tax deduction has increased as we increased our dividend over the last three years.     
  The Tax Relief, Unemployment Insurance Reauthorization, and Job Creation Act of 2010, signed by the President on December 17, 2010,
retroactively extended the research and development tax credit from January 1, 2010 through December 31, 2011. We recognized tax benefits of $35 million in 2011, $43 million in 2010, and $43 million in 2009 related to the impact of the
research and development tax credit.      In April 2011, the U.S. Congressional Joint Committee on Taxation (JCT) completed its
review of the IRS Appeals Division s resolution of certain adjustments related to our tax years 2003-2008. As a result, we recognized additional tax benefits and reduced our income tax expense for 2011 by $89 million ($.26 per share). This
reduction in income tax expense reduced our effective income tax rate for 2011 by 2.5%.      We participate in the IRS Compliance
Assurance Process program. The IRS examinations of the years 2010 and 2009 were completed in the fourth quarter of 2011 and 2010. Except for certain issues in our 2009 return that are pending in the IRS Appeals Division, resolution of the
examinations did not have a material impact on our effective income tax rates. In 2009, the IRS examinations of our U.S. Federal Income Tax Returns for the years 2005-2007 and 2008 were resolved and settled, except for certain issues that were
subsequently resolved in April 2011, following a decision by the IRS Appeals Division as discussed above. As a result, we recognized additional tax benefits and reduced our income tax expense for 2009 by $69 million ($.18 per share), including
related interest.      In March 2010, the President signed into law the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act and the Health
Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010. Beginning January 1, 2013, these laws change the tax treatment for retiree prescription drug expenses by eliminating the tax deduction available to the extent that those expenses are reimbursed
under Medicare Part D. Because the tax benefits associated with these future deductions were reflected as deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2009, the elimination of the tax deductions resulted in a reduction in deferred tax assets and an
increase in income tax expense of $96 million ($.26 per share) in 2010.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

   The primary components of our federal and foreign deferred income tax assets and
liabilities at December 31 were as follows:       

(a)      
    A valuation allowance has been provided against certain foreign company deferred tax assets arising from carryforwards of unused tax benefits.

(b)      
    Includes deferred tax liabilities associated with the exchange of debt securities in 2010 (see Note 9) and 2006.      

(c)      
    Includes net foreign current deferred tax liabilities, which are included on the Balance Sheets in other current liabilities.
        We had recorded liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits related to permanent and temporary tax
adjustments, exclusive of interest, that totaled $160 million at December 31, 2010, primarily recorded in other current liabilities on the Balance Sheet. In 2011, we eliminated most of these liabilities due to the completion of the JCT s review
of the IRS Appeals Division s resolution of certain adjustments related to our tax years 2003-2008 as mentioned above. The remaining balance of our unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2011 is not material.   
  We and our subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various foreign jurisdictions. With few exceptions,
the statute of limitations is no longer open for U.S. federal or non-U.S. income tax examinations for the years before 2008, other than with respect to refunds.      U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on earnings of $193 million, $108 million, and $123 million that have not been distributed by our non-U.S. companies as of
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009. Our intention is to permanently reinvest these earnings, thereby indefinitely postponing their remittance to the U.S. If these earnings were remitted, we estimate that the additional income taxes after foreign
tax credits would have been approximately $41 million in 2011, $17 million in 2010, and $29 million in 2009.      Our federal and
foreign income tax payments, net of refunds received, were $722 million in 2011, $806 million in 2010, and $986 million in 2009. A $250 million refund received in 2011 from the IRS related to estimated taxes paid for 2010 is reflected in 2011
payments. A payment of $260 million associated with the divestiture of EIG, a $325 million refund received in 2010 from the IRS related to estimated taxes paid for 2009, and an $85 million advance payment related to matters pending with IRS Appeals
are reflected in 2010 payments.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

Note 9   Debt     
   Our long-term debt consisted of the following:   
   
    On September 9, 2011, we issued $2.0 billion of long-term notes in a registered public offering
consisting of $500 million due in 2016 with a fixed coupon interest rate of 2.13%, $900 million due in 2021 with a fixed coupon interest rate of 3.35%, and $600 million due in 2041 with a fixed coupon interest rate of 4.85%. We may, at our
option, redeem some or all of the notes at any time by paying a make-whole premium, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the date of redemption. Interest on the notes is payable on March 15 and September 15 of each year, beginning on March
15, 2012. In October 2011, we used a portion of the proceeds to redeem all of our $500 million long-term notes due in 2013. In 2011, we repurchased $84 million of our long-term notes through open-market purchases. We paid premiums of $48 million in
connection with the early extinguishments of debt, which were recognized in other non-operating income, net.      In May 2010, we
issued $728 million of new 5.72% Notes due 2040 (the New Notes) in exchange for $611 million of our then outstanding debt securities (the Old Notes). We paid a premium of $158 million in the exchange, of which $117 million was in the form of
the New Notes and $41 million was paid in cash, which was recorded as a discount and will be amortized as additional interest expense over the life of the New Notes, using the effective interest method.   
  In August 2011, we entered into a new $1.5 billion revolving credit facility with a group of banks and terminated our existing $1.5
billion revolving credit facility which was to expire in June 2012. The new credit facility expires August 2016, and we may request and the banks may grant, at their discretion, an increase to the new credit facility by an additional amount up to
$500 million. There were no borrowings outstanding under either facility through December 31, 2011. Borrowings under the new credit facility would be unsecured and bear interest at rates based, at our option, on a Eurodollar rate or a Base Rate, as
defined in the new credit facility. Each bank s obligation to make loans under the new credit facility is subject to, among other things, our compliance with various representations, warranties and covenants, including covenants limiting our
ability and certain of our subsidiaries  ability to encumber assets and a covenant not to exceed a maximum leverage ratio, as defined in the new credit facility. As of December 31, 2011, we were in compliance with all covenants contained in the
new credit facility, as well as in our debt agreements.      We have agreements in place with banking institutions to provide for
the issuance of commercial paper. There were no commercial paper borrowings outstanding during 2011 or 2010. If we were to issue commercial paper, the borrowings would be supported by the new credit facility.   
  During the five-year period from 2012 through 2016, we have $153 million and $954 million in scheduled long-term debt maturities, which
are due in 2013 and 2016. Interest payments were $326 million in 2011, $337 million in 2010, and $286 million in 2009.   
     Note 10   Postretirement Plans     
    Defined Benefit Pension Plans and Retiree Medical and Life Insurance Plans    
  Most of our employees hired on or before December 31, 2005 are covered by qualified defined benefit pension plans, and we provide
certain health care and life insurance benefits to eligible retirees (collectively, postretirement benefit plans). We also sponsor nonqualified defined benefit pension plans to provide for benefits in excess of qualified plan limits. Non-union
represented employees hired on or after January 1, 2006 do not participate in our qualified defined benefit pension plans, but are eligible to participate in a qualified defined contribution plan in addition to our other retirement savings
plans. They also have the ability to participate in our retiree medical plans, but we do not subsidize the cost of their participation in those plans as we do with employees hired before January 1, 2006. We have made contributions to trusts
established to pay future benefits to eligible retirees and dependents (including Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association trusts and 401(h) accounts, the assets of which will be used to pay expenses of certain retiree medical plans). We
use December 31 as the measurement date. Benefit obligations as of the end of each year reflect assumptions in effect as of those dates. Net periodic benefit cost is based on assumptions in effect at the end of the respective preceding year.
  
         68   

Table of Contents  

   The rules related to accounting for postretirement benefit plans under GAAP require us to
recognize on a plan-by-plan basis the funded status of our postretirement benefit plans, with a corresponding noncash adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, in stockholders  equity. The funded status is
measured as the difference between the fair value of the plan s assets and the benefit obligation of the plan.      The net
periodic benefit cost recognized each year included the following components:       

(a)   
        Total net periodic
benefit cost associated with our qualified defined benefit plans represents pension expense calculated in accordance with GAAP (FAS expense). We are required to calculate pension expense in accordance with both GAAP and CAS rules, each of which
results in a different calculated amount of pension expense. The CAS expense is recovered through the pricing of our products and services on U.S. Government contracts and, therefore, is recognized in net sales and cost of sales for products and
services. We include the difference between FAS expense and CAS expense, referred to as the non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment ($922 million in 2011, $454 million in 2010, and $456 million in 2009), as a component of other unallocated
corporate costs on our Statements of Earnings. The non-cash FAS/CAS pension adjustment effectively adjusts the amount of pension expense in the results of operations so that pension expense recorded on our Statements of Earnings is equal to FAS
expense.      
         69   

Table of Contents  

   The following table provides a reconciliation of benefit obligations, plan assets, and
unfunded status related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans and our retiree medical and life insurance plans:       

(a)   
        Primarily reflects
the transfer of assets and liabilities associated with the 2010 sale of EIG (Note 14). An expense of $109 million was recognized in connection with this settlement, which reduced the gain on sale.      
  The accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) for all qualified defined benefit pension plans was $35.7 billion and $31.4 billion at
December 31, 2011 and 2010. Certain key information related to those plans where ABO was in excess of plan assets as of December 31, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:   
   
    We also sponsor nonqualified defined benefit plans to provide benefits in excess of qualified plan
limits. The aggregate liabilities for these plans at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $907 million and $850 million, which also represent the plans  unfunded status. We have set aside certain assets totaling $283 million and $338 million as
of December 31, 2011 and 2010 in a Rabbi Trust which we expect to be used to pay obligations under our nonqualified defined benefit plans. In accordance with GAAP, those assets may not be used to offset the amount of the benefit obligation
similar to the postretirement benefit plans in the table above. The unrecognized net actuarial losses at December 31, 2011 and 2010 were $476 million and $447 million, and the unrecognized prior service costs were not material. The expense
associated with these plans totaled $104 million in 2011, $85 million in 2010, and $76 million in 2009. We also sponsor a small number of other   
         70   

Table of Contents  

postemployment plans and foreign benefit plans. The aggregate liability for the other postemployment plans was $107 million and $93 million as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. The expense
for the other postemployment plans, as well as the liability and expense associated with the foreign benefit plans, was not material to our results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.   
  The amounts recognized in other comprehensive loss related to our postretirement benefit plans, net of tax, for the years ended
December 31, 2011, 2010, and 2009 are shown in the following table, which also shows the amounts related to our postretirement benefit plans included in accumulated other comprehensive loss at the end of 2011 and expected to be recognized in
net periodic benefit cost, net of tax, during 2012.       
      Actuarial Assumptions        The actuarial assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations at December 31 of each year, and to determine the net periodic benefit cost for each subsequent year, were as follows:   
   
    The decrease in the discount rate from December 31, 2010 to December 31, 2011 resulted in an increase in
the projected benefit obligations of our qualified defined benefit pension plans of approximately $3.8 billion at December 31, 2011. The decrease in the discount rate from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010 resulted in an increase in the
projected benefit obligations of our qualified defined benefit pension plans of approximately $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010.      The assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the retiree medical plans. A one-percentage-point increase or decrease in assumed health care cost trend
rates would result in a change in the postretirement benefit obligation of 4.4% and (3.8)% at December 31, 2011, and a change in the 2011 total service and interest cost of 4.8% and (3.7)%.   
  The long-term rate of return assumption represents the expected average rate of earnings on the funds invested or to be invested to
provide for the benefits included in the benefit obligations. That assumption is based on several factors including historical market index returns, the anticipated long-term asset allocation of plan assets, the historical return data, plan
expenses, and the potential to outperform market index returns.   
         71   

Table of Contents  

     Plan Assets         Investment policies and strategies    Lockheed Martin Investment Management Company (LMIMCo), our wholly-owned subsidiary, has the fiduciary responsibility for making investment decisions
related to the assets of our postretirement benefit plans. LMIMCo s investment objectives for the assets of these plans are (1) to minimize the net present value of expected funding contributions; (2) to ensure there is a high
probability that each plan meets or exceeds our actuarial long-term rate of return assumptions; and (3) to diversify assets to minimize the risk of large losses. The nature and duration of benefit obligations, along with assumptions concerning
asset class returns and return correlations, are considered when determining an appropriate asset allocation to achieve the investment objectives.      Investment policies and strategies governing the assets of the plans are designed to achieve investment objectives within prudent risk parameters. Risk management practices include the use of external
investment managers; the maintenance of a portfolio diversified by asset class, investment approach, and security holdings; and the maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet benefit obligations as they come due.   
  LMIMCo s investment policies require that asset allocations of postretirement benefit plans be maintained within the following
approximate ranges:       
     Fair value measurements    The rules related to accounting for postretirement benefit plans
under GAAP require certain fair value disclosures related to postretirement benefit plan assets, even though those assets are not included on our Balance Sheets. The following table presents the fair value of the assets of our qualified defined
benefit pension plans and retiree medical and life insurance plans by asset category and their level within the fair value hierarchy, which has three levels based on the reliability of the inputs used to determine fair value. Level 1 refers to fair
values determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets, Level 2 refers to fair values estimated using significant other observable inputs, and Level 3 includes fair values estimated using significant unobservable inputs.

72   

Table of Contents  

(a)   
        Equity securities,
fixed income securities, and commodities included derivative assets and liabilities whose fair values were not material as of December 31, 2011 and 2010. LMIMCo s investment policies restrict the use of derivatives to either establish long
exposures for purposes of expediency or capital efficiency, or to hedge risks to the extent of a plan s current exposure to such risks. Most derivative transactions are settled on a daily basis.      
  As of December 31, 2011 and 2010, the assets associated with our foreign defined benefit pension plans were not material and have
not been included in the table above.      The following table presents the changes during 2011 and 2010 in the fair value of plan
assets categorized as Level 3 in the preceding table:       
     Valuation techniques    Cash equivalents are mostly comprised of short-term money-market
instruments and are valued at cost, which approximates fair value.      U.S. equity securities and international equity securities
categorized as Level 1 are traded on active national and international exchanges and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading day of the year. For U.S. equity securities and international equity securities not traded on an active
exchange, or if the closing price is not available, the trustee obtains indicative quotes from a pricing vendor, broker, or investment manager. These securities are categorized as Level 2 if the custodian obtains corroborated quotes from a pricing
vendor or categorized as Level 3 if the custodian obtains uncorroborated quotes from a broker or investment manager.   
  Commingled equity funds are public investment vehicles valued using the Net Asset Value ( NAV ) provided by the fund manager.
The NAV is the total value of the fund divided by the number of shares outstanding. Commingled equity funds are categorized as Level 1 if traded at their NAV on a nationally recognized securities exchange or categorized as Level 2 if the NAV is
corroborated by observable market data ( e.g. , purchases or sales activity).      Fixed income securities categorized as
Level 2 are valued by the trustee using pricing models that use verifiable observable market data ( e.g.  interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals), bids provided by brokers or dealers, or quoted prices of
securities with similar characteristics.      Private equity funds, real estate funds, hedge funds, and fixed income securities
categorized as Level 3 are valued based on valuation models that include significant unobservable inputs and cannot be corroborated using verifiable observable market data. Valuations for private equity funds and real estate funds are determined by
the general partners, while hedge funds are valued by independent administrators. Depending on the nature of the assets, the general partners or independent administrators use both the income and market approaches in their models. The market
approach consists of analyzing market transactions for comparable assets while the income approach uses earnings or the net present value of estimated future cash flows adjusted for liquidity and other risk factors.   
  Commodities categorized as Level 1 are traded on an active commodity exchange and are valued at their closing prices on the last trading
day of the year. Commodities categorized as Level 2 represent shares in a commingled commodity fund valued using the NAV, which is corroborated by observable market data.   
         73   

Table of Contents  

     Contributions and Expected Benefit Payments     
  We generally determine funding requirements for our defined benefit pension plans in a manner consistent with CAS and Internal Revenue
Code rules. In 2011, we made contributions of $2.3 billion related to our qualified defined benefit pension plans. We plan to make contributions of approximately $1.1 billion related to the qualified defined benefit pension plans in 2012. We also
may review options for further contributions in 2012. We expect to make required contributions of $112 million related to the retiree medical and life insurance plans in 2012.      The following table presents estimated future benefit payments, which reflect expected future employee service, as of December 31, 2011:   
   
     Defined Contribution Plans       We maintain a number of defined contribution plans, most with 401(k) features, that cover substantially all of our employees. Under the provisions of our 401(k) plans, we match most employees 
eligible contributions at rates specified in the plan documents. Our contributions were $378 million in 2011, $379 million in 2010, and $364 million in 2009, the majority of which were funded in our common stock. Our defined contribution plans held
approximately 52.1 million and 60.7 million shares of our common stock as of December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
     Note 11   Stockholders  Equity     
   At December 31, 2011, our authorized capital was composed of 1.5 billion shares of common stock and
50 million shares of series preferred stock. Of the 323 million shares of common stock issued and outstanding, 321 million shares were considered outstanding for Balance Sheet presentation purposes; the remaining shares were held in
the Rabbi Trust. No preferred stock shares were issued and outstanding at December 31, 2011.      During 2011, 2010, and
2009, we repurchased 31.8 million, 33.0 million, and 24.9 million shares of our common stock for $2.4 billion, $2.5 billion, and $1.9 billion. We paid cash totaling $2.5 billion for share repurchases during 2011, which included $63 million for
shares we repurchased in December 2010 but that were not paid for until January 2011. Our share repurchase program provides for the repurchase of our common stock from time-to-time. Under the program, we have discretion to determine the dollar
amount of shares to be repurchased and the timing of any repurchases in compliance with applicable law and regulation. In 2011, our Board authorized an additional $3.5 billion for share repurchases, bringing the total authorized amount under the
program to $6.5 billion. As of December 31, 2011, we had repurchased a total of 43.0 million shares under the program for $3.2 billion, and there remained $3.3 billion authorized for additional share repurchases.   
  As we repurchase our common shares, we reduce common stock for the $1 of par value of the shares repurchased, with the remainder of the
purchase price over par value recorded as a reduction of additional paid-in capital. Due to the volume of repurchases made under our share repurchase program, additional paid-in capital was reduced to zero, with the remainder of the excess of
purchase price over par value of $1.8 billion and $1.9 billion recorded as a reduction of retained earnings in 2011 and 2010.   
     Note 12   Stock-Based Compensation     
   During 2011, 2010, and 2009, we recorded non-cash compensation cost related to stock options and restricted stock
units totaling $157 million, $168 million, and $154 million, which is included on our Statements of Earnings in other unallocated corporate costs within cost of sales. The net impact to earnings for the respective years was $101 million,
$109 million, and $99 million.       Stock-Based Compensation Plans    
  We had two stock-based compensation plans in place at December 31, 2011: the Lockheed Martin 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan
(the Award Plan) and the Lockheed Martin Directors Equity Plan (the Directors Plan). Under the Award Plan, we have the right to grant key employees stock-based incentive awards, including options to purchase common
  
         74   

Table of Contents  

stock, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, or stock units. Employees also may receive cash-based incentive awards. We evaluate the types and mix of stock-based incentive awards on an
ongoing basis and may vary the mix based on our overall strategy regarding compensation. The Award Plan was approved by our stockholders at our April 28, 2011 annual meeting. Prior to stockholder approval of the Award Plan, equity awards were
made to employees under the Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the Prior Plan). Awards made under the Prior Plan remain outstanding but no new awards may be made under the Prior Plan after April 28, 2011.   
  Under the Award Plan and the Prior Plan, the exercise price of options to purchase common stock may not be less than the fair market
value of our stock on the date of grant. No award of stock options may become fully vested prior to the third anniversary of the grant, and no portion of a stock option grant may become vested in less than one year. The minimum vesting period for
restricted stock or stock units payable in stock is three years. Award agreements may provide for shorter vesting periods or vesting following termination of employment in the case of death, disability, divestiture, retirement, change of control, or
layoff. Neither the Award Plan nor the Prior Plan imposes any minimum vesting periods on other types of awards. The maximum term of a stock option or any other award is 10 years.   
  We generally recognize compensation cost for stock options for the entire award ratably over the three-year vesting period. For stock
options granted prior to 2011 to active employees that are retirement eligible on the date of grant or become retirement eligible during the first year after grant, we recognize compensation expense ratably over a period of one year. For stock
options granted prior to 2011 to active employees that become retirement eligible after the one-year anniversary of the grant but prior to the three-year anniversary of the grant, we recognize compensation expense ratably from the date of grant to
the date on which the employee becomes retirement eligible. Beginning in 2011, stock option grants do not provide for accelerated vesting upon reaching retirement eligibility. We use the Black-Scholes option pricing model to estimate the fair value
of stock options.      Restricted stock units (RSUs) granted under both the Award Plan and the Prior Plan are based on the fair
market value of our common stock on the date of the award. We recognize the related compensation expense over the three-year vesting period. Employees who are granted RSUs receive the right to receive shares of stock after completion of the vesting
period, however, the shares are not issued, and the employees cannot sell or transfer shares prior to vesting and have no voting rights until the RSUs vest, generally three years from the date of the award. Dividend equivalents are paid in cash
during the vesting period for RSUs granted prior to April 2010. Employees who are granted RSUs subsequent to April 2010, receive dividend-equivalent cash payments only upon vesting. For these RSU awards, the grant date fair value of our common stock
is reduced to reflect the delay in payment of dividends.      Under the Directors Plan, directors receive approximately half of
their annual compensation in the form of equity-based compensation. Each director may elect to receive his or her equity-based compensation in the form of stock units that track investment returns to changes in value of our common stock with
dividends reinvested, options to purchase common stock, or a combination of the two. Under the Directors Plan, options to purchase common stock have an exercise price of 100% of the market value of the underlying stock on the date of grant. Stock
options and stock units issued under the Directors Plan vest half on June 30 following the date of grant and half on December 31 following the date of grant, except in certain circumstances. The maximum term of a stock option is 10 years.
     Our stockholders have approved the Award Plan, the Prior Plan and the Directors Plan, as well as the number of shares of our
common stock authorized for issuance under these plans. At December 31, 2011, inclusive of the shares reserved for outstanding stock options and RSUs, we had 40 million shares reserved for issuance under our stock option and award plans.
At December 31, 2011, 11 million of the shares reserved for issuance remained available for grant under the plans. We issue new shares upon the exercise of stock options or when restrictions on RSUs have been satisfied.   
    Summary of 2011 Activity        As of December 31, 2011, we had $181 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock options and RSUs. We expect that cost to be recognized over a weighted average period of 1.6
years. We received cash from the exercise of stock options totaling $116 million, $59 million, and $40 million during 2011, 2010, and 2009. In addition, we realized tax benefits of $56 million, $47 million, and $56 million from stock-based
compensation activities during 2011, 2010, and 2009.   
         75   

Table of Contents  

    2011 Activity         Stock Options        The following table summarizes stock option activity
during 2011:       
    Stock options vest over three years and have 10-year terms. Exercise prices of stock options awarded for
all periods were equal to the market price of the stock on the date of grant. The following table pertains to stock options that were granted, vested, and exercised in 2011, 2010, and 2009:   
   
    We estimate the fair value for stock options at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing
model, which requires us to make certain assumptions. We base the risk-free interest rate on U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected life assumed at the date of grant. The dividend yield is determined based on
estimated dividend payments and changes to our stock price during the expected option life. We estimate volatility based on the historical volatility of our daily stock price over the past five years, which is commensurate with the expected life of
the options. We base the average expected life on the contractual term of the stock option, historical trends in employee exercise activity, and post-vesting employment termination trends. We estimate forfeitures at the date of grant based on
historical experience. The impact of forfeitures is not material.      We used the following weighted average assumptions in the
Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair values of stock-based compensation awards during 2011, 2010, and 2009:       
      RSUs        The following table summarizes activity related to nonvested RSUs during 2011:       
 
         76   

Table of Contents  

Note 13   Legal Proceedings, Commitments, and Contingencies     
   We are a party to or have property subject to litigation and other proceedings, including matters arising under
provisions relating to the protection of the environment. We believe the probability is remote that the outcome of each of these matters, including the legal proceedings discussed below, will have a material adverse effect on the Corporation as a
whole, notwithstanding that the unfavorable resolution of any matter may have a material effect on our net earnings in any particular quarter. Among the factors that we consider in this assessment are the nature of existing legal proceedings and
claims, the asserted or possible damages or loss contingency (if estimable), the progress of the case, existing law and precedent, the opinions or views of legal counsel and other advisers, our experience in similar cases and the experience of other
companies, the facts available to us at the time of assessment, and how we intend to respond to the proceeding or claim. Our assessment of these factors may change over time as individual proceedings or claims progress. Unless otherwise
indicated, a range of loss associated with any individual legal proceeding set forth below reasonably cannot be estimated. We cannot predict the outcome of legal proceedings with certainty. These matters include the following items.   
   Legal Proceedings       On
July 20, 2011, the City of Pontiac General Employees  Retirement System filed a class action lawsuit against us and three of our executive officers (Robert J. Stevens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Bruce L. Tanner, Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer, and Linda R. Gooden, Executive Vice President, IS GS) in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint was filed on behalf of purchasers of our common stock from
April 21, 2009 through July 21, 2009 and alleges that we violated certain sections of the federal securities laws by allegedly making statements, primarily about the then-expected performance of our IS GS business segment, that
contained either false statements of material facts or omitted material facts necessary to make the statements made not misleading, or engaged in other acts that operated as an alleged fraud upon class members who purchased our common stock during
that period. The complaint further alleges that the statutory safe harbor provided for forward-looking statements does not apply to any of the allegedly false statements. The complaint does not allege a specific amount of monetary damages. We
believe that the allegations are without merit and are defending against them.      Two additional actions were filed that repeat
substantially the same allegations as those in the City of Pontiac General Employees  Retirement System case (described above). On September 9, 2011, Joyce Cavanagh-Wood, filed a shareholder derivative action in the Circuit Court for Montgomery
County, Maryland, naming Mr. Stevens, Mr. Tanner, and each of the current directors of Lockheed Martin as well as the individuals who were Lockheed Martin directors at the time of the activities alleged in the complaint. The two actions allege
breach of fiduciary duty, mismanagement, unjust enrichment, abuse of control, and waste of corporate assets relating to substantially the same allegations as the City of Pontiac General Employees  Retirement System case. Similarly, on October
11, 2011, Renee Smith, individually and on behalf of others, filed a shareholder derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, naming the same defendants (excluding Rosalind Brewer) and making substantially the
same allegations. We believe that the allegations are without merit and are defending against them.      On April 24, 2009,
we filed a declaratory judgment action against the N.Y. Metropolitan Transportation Authority and its Capital Construction Company (collectively, the MTA) asking the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of N.Y. to find that the MTA is in
material breach of our agreement based on the MTA s failure to provide access to sites where work must be performed and customer-furnished equipment necessary to complete the contract. The MTA filed an answer and counterclaim alleging that
we breached the contract, and subsequently terminated the contract for alleged default. The MTA is seeking monetary damages and other relief under the contract, including the cost to complete the contract and potential re-procurement
costs. The contract had a total value of $323 million, of which $241 million was paid to us. We dispute the MTA s allegations and are defending against them.      On September 11, 2006, we and Lockheed Martin Investment Management Company (LMIMCo), a subsidiary, were named as defendants in a lawsuit filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
Illinois, seeking to represent a class of purportedly similarly situated participants and beneficiaries in two of our 401(k) plans. Plaintiffs allege that we or LMIMCo caused our plans to pay expenses that were higher than reasonable by, among
other actions, permitting service providers of the plans to engage in revenue sharing, paying investment management fees for the company stock funds, and causing the company stock funds to hold cash for liquidity, thus reducing the return on those
funds. The plaintiffs also allege that we failed to disclose information appropriately relating to the fees associated with managing the plans. In August 2008, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint, adding allegations that we breached
fiduciary duties under ERISA by providing inadequate disclosures with respect to the Stable Value Fund offered under our 401(k) plans. The complaint does not allege a specific calculation of damages, and we cannot reasonably estimate the
possible loss, or range of loss, which could be   
         77   

Table of Contents  

incurred if the plaintiffs were to prevail in the allegations, but believe that we have substantial defenses. We dispute the allegations and are defending against them. On March 31, 2009,
the Judge dismissed a number of the plaintiffs  claims, leaving three claims for trial, specifically the plaintiffs' claims involving the company stock funds, the Stable Value Fund, and overall fees. The Court also granted class certification
on two of the plaintiffs  claims. We appealed the class certification. On March 15, 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit vacated the Court s class certification. The case has been remanded to the District Court.
     On August 28, 2003, the DoJ filed complaints in partial intervention in two lawsuits filed under the qui tam provisions
of the Civil False Claims Act in the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky,  United States ex rel. Natural Resources Defense Council, et al., v. Lockheed Martin Corporation, et al ., and  United States ex rel. John D.
Tillson v. Lockheed Martin Energy Systems, Inc., et al . The DoJ alleges that we committed violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act at the Paducah Gaseous Diffusion Plant by not properly handling, storing, and transporting
hazardous waste and that we violated the False Claims Act by misleading Department of Energy officials and state regulators about the nature and extent of environmental noncompliance at the plant. The complaint does not allege a specific calculation
of damages, and we cannot reasonably estimate the possible loss, or range of loss, which could be incurred if the plaintiff were to prevail in the allegations, but believe that we have substantial defenses. We dispute the allegations and are
defending against them.      We resolved or reached an agreement in principle to resolve three previously disclosed matters
without a material effect to the Corporation s financial statements. These matters were:       

United States ex rel. Becker and Spencer v. Lockheed Martin Corporation, et al ., which was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of Texas and alleged that a subcontractor submitted invalid invoices under the False Claims Act.          

An arbitration proceeding with the U.K. Ministry of Defence related to the  Soothsayer  contract for electronic warfare equipment.

The litigation we have been in with certain residents of Redlands, California, since 1997 before the California Superior Court for San Bernardino
County regarding alleged contribution to regional groundwater contamination.         The United States ex rel.
Becker and Spencer and the Redlands matters remain pending, but we expect that they will be resolved definitively in the near term.   
   Environmental Matters    
  We are involved in environmental proceedings and potential proceedings relating to soil and groundwater contamination, disposal of
hazardous waste, and other environmental matters at several of our current or former facilities, or at third-party sites where we have been designated as a potentially responsible party (PRP). A substantial portion of environmental costs will be
included in our net sales and cost of sales in future periods pursuant to U.S. Government regulations. At the time a liability is recorded for future environmental costs, we record a receivable for estimated future recovery considered probable
through the pricing of products and services to agencies of the U.S. Government, regardless of the contract form ( e.g. , cost-reimbursable, fixed price). We continuously evaluate the recoverability of our environmental receivables by
assessing, among other factors, U.S. Government regulations, our U.S. Government business base and contract mix, and our history of receiving reimbursement of such costs. We include the portion of those environmental costs expected to be allocated
to our non-U.S. Government contracts, or that is determined to be unallowable for pricing under U.S. Government contracts, in our cost of sales at the time the liability is established.   
  At December 31, 2011 and 2010, the aggregate amount of liabilities recorded relative to environmental matters was $932 million and $935
million, of which $814 million and $807 million is recorded in other liabilities on the Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, with the remainder recorded in other current liabilities. We have recorded receivables totaling $808 million and
$810 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, for the estimated future recovery of these costs, as we consider the recovery probable based on the factors previously mentioned. Of those amounts, $706 million and $699 million are recorded in other
assets on the Balance Sheets at December 31, 2011 and 2010, with the remainder recorded in other current assets. We project costs and recovery of costs over approximately twenty years.   
         78   

Table of Contents  

   Environmental cleanup activities usually span several years, which make estimating
liabilities a matter of judgment because of such factors as changing remediation technologies, assessments of the extent of contamination, and continually evolving regulatory environmental standards. We consider these and other factors in estimates
of the timing and amount of any future costs that may be required for remediation actions, which results in the calculation of a range of estimates for a particular environmental remediation site.   
  We perform quarterly reviews of the status of our environmental remediation sites and the related liabilities and receivables. We
record a liability when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. The amount of liability recorded is based on our estimate of the costs to be incurred for remediation at a particular site. We do
not discount the recorded liabilities, as the amount and timing of future cash payments are not fixed or cannot be reliably determined.      We cannot reasonably determine the extent of our financial exposure in all cases at this time. There are a number of former operating facilities that we are monitoring or investigating for potential
future remediation. In some cases, although a loss may be probable, it is not possible at this time to reasonably estimate the amount of any obligation for remediation activities because of uncertainties with respect to assessing the extent of the
contamination or the applicable regulatory standard. We also are pursuing claims for contribution to site cleanup costs against other PRPs, including the U.S. Government.      Both the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency and the California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment announced plans in January 2011 to regulate two chemicals, perchlorate and hexavalent
chromium, to levels in drinking water that are expected to be substantially lower than the existing public health goals or standards established in California. The rulemaking processes are lengthy ones and may take one or more years to
complete. If a substantially lower standard is adopted, we would expect a material increase in our estimates for environmental liabilities and the related assets for the portion of the increased costs that are probable of future recovery in the
pricing of our products and services for the U.S. Government. The amount that would be allocable to our non-U.S. Government contracts or that is determined to be unallowable for pricing under U.S. Government contracts would be expensed, which may
have a material effect on our earnings in any particular interim reporting period.     We are conducting remediation activities,
including under various consent decrees and orders, relating to soil, groundwater, sediment, or surface water contamination at certain sites of former or current operations. Under an agreement related to our Burbank and Glendale, California, sites,
the U.S. Government reimburses us an amount equal to approximately 50% of expenditures for certain remediation activities in its capacity as a PRP under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA).   
   Operating Leases       We
rent certain equipment and facilities under operating leases. Certain major plant facilities and equipment are furnished by the U.S. Government under short-term or cancelable arrangements. Our total rental expense under operating leases was $347
million, $399 million, and $370 million for 2011, 2010, and 2009. Future minimum lease commitments at December 31, 2011 for all operating leases that have a remaining term of more than one year were $1.0 billion ($264 million in 2012, $200
million in 2013, $139 million in 2014, $97 million in 2015, $71 million in 2016 and $246 million in later years).       Letters of Credit,
Surety Bonds, and Third-Party Guarantees       We have entered into standby letters of credit, surety bonds, and third-party
guarantees with financial institutions and other third parties primarily relating to advances received from customers and the guarantee of future performance on certain contracts. Letters of credit and surety bonds generally are available for draw
down in the event we do not perform. In some cases, we may guarantee the contractual performance of third parties such as joint venture partners. We have total outstanding letters of credit, surety bonds, and third-party guarantees aggregating $3.9
billion and $4.2 billion at December 31, 2011 and 2010. Of these amounts, $907 million and $1.0 billion relate to third-party guarantees.      Approximately 85% of the $907 million and $1.0 billion in third-party guarantees outstanding at December 31, 2011 and 2010 related to guarantees of the contractual performance of joint ventures to
which we currently are or previously were a party. This amount represents our estimate of the maximum amount we would expect to incur upon the contractual non-performance of the joint venture partners. We evaluate the reputation, technical
capabilities, and credit quality of   
         79   

Table of Contents  

potential joint venture partners. In addition, we generally have cross-indemnities in place that may enable us to recover amounts that may be paid on behalf of a joint venture partner. We believe
our current and former joint venture partners will be able to perform their obligations, as they have done through December 31, 2011, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the guarantees.   
   United Launch Alliance    
  In connection with our 50% ownership interest of United Launch Alliance, L.L.C. (ULA), we and The Boeing Company (Boeing) have each
received distributions totaling $352 million (since ULA s formation in December 2006) which are subject to agreements between us, Boeing, and ULA, whereby, if ULA does not have sufficient cash resources or credit capacity to make payments under
the inventory supply agreement it has with Boeing, both we and Boeing would provide to ULA, in the form of an additional capital contribution, the level of funding required for ULA to make those payments. Any such capital contributions would not
exceed the amount of the distributions subject to the agreements. We currently believe that ULA will have sufficient operating cash flows and credit capacity, including access to its $400 million revolving credit agreement from third-party financial
institutions, to meet its obligations such that we would not be required to make a contribution under these agreements.      In
addition, both we and Boeing have cross-indemnified each other for certain financial support arrangements ( e.g. , letters of credit or surety bonds provided by either party) and guarantees by us and Boeing of the performance and financial
obligations of ULA under certain launch service contracts. We believe ULA will be able to fully perform its obligations, as it has done through December 31, 2011, and that it will not be necessary to make payments under the cross-indemnities or
guarantees.      Our 50% ownership share of ULA s net assets exceeded the book value of our investment by approximately
$395 million, which we are recognizing as income ratably over 10 years. This yearly amortization and our share of ULA s net earnings are reported as equity in net earnings (losses) of equity investees in other income, net on our Statements
of Earnings. Our investment in ULA totaled $574 million and $513 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010.   
     Note 14   Acquisitions and Divestitures     
    Acquisitions       We used $649 million in 2011 for acquisition activities including the acquisition of QTC, which provides outsourced medical evaluation services to the U.S. Government, and Sim-Industries B.V., a
commercial aviation simulation company. QTC has been included within our IS GS business segment, and Sim-Industries B.V. has been included within our Electronic Systems business segment. Both acquisitions occurred in the fourth quarter of 2011.
We have accounted for the acquisition of businesses under the acquisition method, which required us to measure all of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their acquisition-date fair values. Purchase allocations related to these
acquisitions resulted in recording goodwill aggregating $547 million, including $113 million that will be amortized for tax purposes, and $133 million of other intangible assets, primarily relating to the value of customer relationships and trade
names we acquired.       Divestitures       During the third quarter of 2011, we committed to a plan to sell Savi Technology, Inc. (Savi), a logistics business within our Electronic Systems business segment, within one year. The operating results
of Savi are included in discontinued operations on our Statements of Earnings for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities of Savi have not been classified as held for sale on our 2011 Balance Sheet, as the amounts are not material.
     In April 2011, we closed on the sale of PAE, a business within our IS GS business segment, for cash and the beneficial
interest in certain receivables. PAE s operating results are included in discontinued operations on our Statements of Earnings for 2009, 2010, and 2011 through the date of sale, and its assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale on
our 2010 Balance Sheet.      As a result of our decision to sell PAE and Savi, we were required to record deferred tax assets to
reflect the tax benefit that we expected to realize on the sale of those businesses because our tax basis was higher than our book basis. Accordingly, we recorded a $15 million deferred tax asset in 2011 and a $182 million deferred tax asset in 2010
related to PAE. We also recorded a net benefit of $40 million in 2011 related to the decision to sell Savi, the principal driver of which is the recognition of a deferred tax asset. We also recorded a $109 million impairment charge related to PAE in
2010. The   
         80   

Table of Contents  

impairment charge, which was determined using a Level 3 valuation that was based on inputs and analysis used to estimate the expected net proceeds from the sale transaction, reduced the carrying
value of PAE to equal the expected net proceeds from the transaction. These amounts are included in  Other adjustments  in the table below, which also includes other charges associated with Savi and the sale of PAE that were incurred in
2011.      In November 2010, we closed on the sale of EIG, a business within our IS GS business segment, for $815 million and
recognized a gain, net of tax, of $184 million ($.50 per share) in 2010, which is included in discontinued operations. We received proceeds, net of $17 million in transaction costs, of $798 million related to the sale, which are included in
investing activities on our 2010 Statement of Cash Flows. We made a $260 million tax payment related to the sale which is included in operating activities on our 2010 Statement of Cash Flows. EIG s operating results are included in discontinued
operations on our Statements of Earnings for 2009 and 2010 through the date of sale. Additional amounts related to the completion of certain post-closing items, such as working capital adjustments, may be recorded in discontinued operations in
periods subsequent to the sale date.      In the following table, we have combined the results of operations of PAE, EIG, and
Savi, as the amounts for the individual businesses are not material. Summary financial information related to discontinued operations is as follows:       
    The major classes of assets and liabilities related to PAE and classified as held for sale on our
December 31, 2010 Balance Sheet consisted of the following: receivables, net of $253 million, goodwill and other assets of $143 million, accounts payable and accrued expenses of $125 million, and other liabilities of $79 million.   
     Note 15   Fair Value Measurements     
   Our assets and liabilities that are measured and recorded at fair value on our Balance Sheets on a recurring basis
consist of our short-term investments, investments held in a Rabbi Trust (Note 1), and derivative assets and liabilities. The following table presents these assets and liabilities and their level within the fair value hierarchy:   

(a)      
    Equity securities and interests in mutual funds are valued using quoted market prices.      

(b)      
    U.S. Government securities and other securities, which consist primarily of corporate debt securities, U.S. Government-sponsored enterprise securities,
and mortgage-backed securities, are valued based on inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset ( e.g. , interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals).      

(c)      
    Derivative assets and liabilities relate to foreign currency exchange and interest rate swap contracts and are valued based on observable market prices
( e.g. , interest rates and yield curves observable at commonly quoted intervals), but are not exchanged in an active market.         Our cash equivalents include highly liquid instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less. Due to the short maturity of these instruments, the carrying amount on our Balance Sheets approximates
fair value. Our accounts receivable   
         81   

Table of Contents  

and accounts payable are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. The estimated fair values of our long-term debt instruments at December 31, 2011 and 2010, aggregated approximately
$7.8 billion and $6.2 billion, compared with a carrying amount of approximately $7.0 billion and $5.5 billion, which excludes $506 million and $505 million of unamortized discounts. The fair values were estimated based on quoted market prices of
debt with terms and due dates similar to our long-term debt instruments.   
     Note 16   Summary of Quarterly Information (Unaudited)     

(a)   
        Net sales,
operating profit, and net earnings (loss) from continuing and discontinued operations varies from the amounts previously reported on Forms 10-Q as a result of Savi being classified as discontinued operations in the third quarter of 2011.

(b)      
    The decrease in net sales from the fourth quarter of 2010 to the fourth quarter of 2011 is primarily due to declines in net sales at our Electronic
Systems, IS GS, and Space Systems business segments. The decline at Electronic Systems was primarily due to fewer deliveries on tactical missile programs and net declines in volume on various other programs. The decline at IS GS was
primarily due to lower volume due to the absence of the Decennial Response Integration System (DRIS) program that supported the 2010 U.S. census and a decline in activities on the Airborne Maritime Fixed Station Joint Tactical Radio System (JTRS).
The decline at Space Systems was primarily due to decreased volume related to satellite activities.      

(c)      
    The second quarter of 2011 included a reduction in income tax expense of $89 million due to the resolution of certain tax matters (Note 8) and a charge
of $97 million ($63 million after tax) related to severance actions (Note 2). The fourth quarter of 2011 included an increase of $107 million ($66 million after tax) in the non-cash FAS/CAS pension expense adjustment and a decrease in R D tax
credits of $36 million, each as compared to the fourth quarter of 2010, and included a premium of $46 million ($28 million after tax) on the early extinguishments of debt. The first quarter of 2010 included an increase in income tax expense of
$96 million resulting from legislation that eliminated the tax deduction for benefit costs reimbursed under Medicare Part D (Note 8). The third quarter of 2010 included a charge of $178 million ($116 million after tax) related to the VESP (Note 2).
The fourth quarter of 2010 included a charge of $42 million ($27 million after tax) related to facilities consolidation within our Electronic Systems business segment (Note 2).      

(d)      
    The third quarter of 2011 included a tax benefit of $66 million related to Savi and the second quarter of 2010 included a tax benefit of $96 million
related to PAE, both of which were recorded when the decision was made to dispose of each business. The fourth quarter of 2010 included a gain of $184 million from the sale of EIG. See Note 14 for further information related to these items.

(e)      
    The sum of the quarterly earnings per share amounts do not equal the earnings per share amount included on our Statements of Earnings, primarily due to
the timing of our share repurchases during 2011 and 2010.      

         82   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE      
  None.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES         (a) Evaluation
of Disclosure Controls and Procedures      We performed an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and
procedures as of December 31, 2011. The evaluation was performed with the participation of senior management of each business segment and key corporate functions, and under the supervision of the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief
Financial Officer (CFO). Based on this evaluation, the CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were operating and effective as of December 31, 2011.      (b) Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting      Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes.      Our management
conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011. This assessment was based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
in Internal Control Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment, management has concluded that, as of December 31, 2011, our internal control over financial reporting was effective.   
  Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued a report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting, which is below.   
         83   

Table of Contents  

   (c) Report of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, Regarding Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting      Board of Directors and Stockholders      Lockheed Martin Corporation      We have audited Lockheed Martin Corporation s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO
criteria). Lockheed Martin Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the
accompanying Management s Report on the Financial Statements and Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
     We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A
company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect
the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject
to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, Lockheed Martin Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2011, based on the COSO criteria.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated
balance sheets of Lockheed Martin Corporation as of December 31, 2011 and 2010, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,
2011 of Lockheed Martin Corporation and our report dated February 23, 2012 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/
Ernst   Young LLP      McLean, Virginia      February 23, 2012   
         84   

Table of Contents  

   (d) Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting   
  There were no changes in our internal control over financial reporting during the most recently completed fiscal quarter that materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         None.
  
         85   

Table of Contents  

    PART III    

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         The information concerning directors required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is included under the caption  Proposal 1 - Election of Directors  in our definitive Proxy Statement to be filed
pursuant to Regulation 14A (the 2012 Proxy Statement), and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. Information concerning executive officers required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is located under Part I, Item 4(a)
of this Form 10-K. The information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is included under the caption  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the 2012 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K. The information required by Items 407(c)(3), (d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is included under the captions  Committees of the Board of Directors   Committees  and  Committees of the Board of
Directors   Audit Committee Report  in the 2012 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.      We have had a written code of ethics in place since our formation in 1995.  Setting the Standard , our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, applies to all our employees, including our principal
executive officer, principal financial officer, and principal accounting officer and controller, and to members of our Board of Directors. A copy of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct is available on our investor relations website:
 www.lockheedmartin.com/investor . Printed copies of our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct may be obtained, without charge, by contacting Investor Relations, Lockheed Martin Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817. We are
required to disclose any change to, or waiver from, our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct for our Chief Executive Officer and senior financial officers. We use our website to disseminate this disclosure as permitted by applicable SEC rules. In
2011, we revised our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and posted it on our website.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      
  The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is included in the text and tables under the captions  Executive
Compensation  and  Directors  Compensation  in the 2012 Proxy Statement and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. The information required by Items 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K is included
under the captions  Executive Compensation   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Executive Compensation   Compensation Committee Report  in the 2012 Proxy Statement, and that information is
furnished by incorporation by reference in this Form 10-K.   
         86   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS      
  The information required by this Item 12 is included under the heading  Security Ownership of Management and Certain Beneficial
Owners  in the 2012 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.       Equity Compensation Plan
Information       The following table provides information about our equity compensation plans that authorize the issuance of
shares of Lockheed Martin common stock to employees and directors. The information is provided as of December 31, 2011.       

(1)   
        As of
December 31, 2011, there were 10,214,254 shares available for grant under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan ( IPA Plan ) as options, stock appreciation rights ( SARs ), Restricted Stock
Awards ( RSAs ), or Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs  there are no restrictions on the number of the available shares that may be issued in respect of SARs or stock units. As of December 31, 2011, 110,000 shares have been
granted as restricted stock under the IPA Plan. Of the 10,214,254 shares available for grant on December 31, 2011, 3,390,348 and 1,987,114 shares are issuable pursuant to grants on January 30, 2012, of options and RSUs, respectively.
Amounts in column (c) of the table also include 568,769 shares that may be issued under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2009 Directors Equity Plan ( Directors Equity Plan ), and 1,320 shares that may be issued under the Lockheed
Martin Corporation Directors  Deferred Stock Plan ( Directors  Deferred Stock Plan ), a plan that was approved by the stockholders in 1995; effective May 1, 1999, no additional shares may be awarded under the Directors 
Deferred Stock Plan. For RSUs, shares are issued once the restricted period ends and the shares are no longer forfeitable.      

(2)   
        At
December 31, 2011, a total of 39,149 shares of Lockheed Martin common stock were issuable upon the exercise of the options assumed by the Corporation in connection with the COMSAT Corporation acquisition. The weighted average exercise price of
those outstanding options was $26.15 per share.      

(3)   
        The shares
represent Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( MICP ) bonuses and Long-Term Incentive Performance ( LTIP ) payments earned and voluntarily deferred by employees. The deferred amounts are payable to them under the Deferred
Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ). Deferred amounts are credited as phantom stock units at the closing price of our stock on the date the deferral is effective. Amounts equal to our dividend are credited as stock units at
the time we pay a dividend. Following termination of employment, a number of shares of stock equal to the number of stock units credited to the employee s DMICP account are distributed to the employee. There is no discount or value transfer on
the stock distributed. Distributions may be made from newly issued shares or shares purchased on the open market. Historically, all distributions have come from shares held in a Rabbi Trust, which are included in the 323,367,990 common shares in the
following table and therefore do not further dilute our common shares outstanding (see Note 11 to our consolidated financial statements contained in our Form 10-K). As a result, the phantom stock units also were not considered in calculating the
total weighted average exercise price in the table. Using this approach and data as of December 31, 2011, we calculated a dilution level of 11% based on common shares outstanding as follows:      

87   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by this Item 13 is included under the captions  Corporate Governance   Related Person Transaction Policy,   Corporate Governance   Certain
Relationships and Related Person Transactions of Directors, Executive Officers, and 5 Percent Stockholders,  and  Corporate Governance   Director Independence  in the 2012 Proxy Statement, and that information is incorporated by
reference in this Form 10-K.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES         The information required by this Item 14 is included under the caption  Proposal 2   Ratification of Appointment of Independent Auditors  in the 2012 Proxy Statement, and that
information is incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a) (1) List of financial statements filed as part of this Form 10-K.      The
following financial statements of Lockheed Martin Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries are included in Item 8 of this Form 10-K at the page numbers referenced below:   
   
    The report of Lockheed Martin Corporation s independent registered public accounting firm with
respect to the above-referenced financial statements and their report on internal control over financial reporting appear on pages 50 and 84 of this Form 10-K. Their consent appears as Exhibit 23 of this Form 10-K.   

(2)  
  List of financial statement schedules filed as part of this Form 10-K.        All schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable, not required, or the information has been otherwise supplied in the financial statements or notes to the financial statements.   

3.1  
      
  Charter of Lockheed Martin Corporation, as amended by Articles of Amendment dated April 23, 2009 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws of Lockheed Martin Corporation, as amended and restated effective January 26, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current
Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on January 31, 2012).   

4.1  
      
  Indenture, dated May 16, 1996, among Lockheed Martin Corporation, Lockheed Martin Tactical Systems, Inc. and First Trust of Illinois, National Association as Trustee (incorporated
by reference to Exhibit 4.A to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 20, 1996).   

4.2  
      
  Indenture, dated as of August 30, 2006, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on August 31, 2006).   

4.3  
      
  Indenture, dated as of March 11, 2008, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and The Bank of New York (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on March 12, 2008).   

4.4  
      
  Indenture, dated as of May 25, 2010, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on May 25, 2010).   

4.5  
      
  Indenture, dated as of September 6, 2011, between Lockheed Martin Corporation and U.S. Bank National Association (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 7, 2011).   

See also Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.   

No instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt that is not registered are filed because the total amount of securities authorized under any such instrument does not
exceed 10% of the total assets of Lockheed Martin Corporation on a consolidated basis. Lockheed Martin Corporation agrees to furnish a copy of such instruments to the SEC upon
request.    
         89   

Table of Contents  

10.1  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Deferred Stock Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for the quarter ended September 30, 2002).   

10.2  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).   

10.3  
      
  Resolutions relating to Lockheed Martin Corporation Financial Counseling Program and personal liability and accidental death and dismemberment benefits for officers and company
presidents, (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997).   

10.4  
      
  Martin Marietta Corporation Postretirement Death Benefit Plan for Senior Executives, as amended January 1, 1995 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Lockheed
Martin Corporation s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 033-57645) filed with the SEC on February 9, 1995), and as further amended September 26, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 (ooo) to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996).   

10.5  
      
  Martin Marietta Corporation Amended Omnibus Securities Award Plan, as amended March 25, 1993 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 033-57645) filed with the SEC on February 9, 1995).   

10.6  
      
  Martin Marietta Corporation Directors  Life Insurance Program (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Registration Statement on Form
S-4 (File No.# 033-57645) filed with the SEC on February 9, 1995).   

10.7  
      
  Lockheed Martin Supplementary Pension Plan for Employees of Transferred GE Operations, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).   

10.8  
      
  Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan for Certain Transferred Employees of Lockheed Martin Corporation, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).   

10.9  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Supplemental Savings Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2010).   

10.10  
      
  Amendment to Terms of Outstanding Stock Option Relating to Exercise Period for Employees of Divested Business (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 (dd) to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999).   

10.11  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Postretirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers, as amended June 28, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on July 3, 2007).   

10.12  
      
  Deferred Performance Payment Plan of Lockheed Martin Corporation Space   Strategic Missiles Sector (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 (ooo) to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997).   

10.13  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Directors Equity Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2007 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on November 2, 2006).   

10.14  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended.   

10.15  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation 2006 Management Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s current Report
on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 3, 2011).   

10.16  
      
  Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan of Lockheed Corporation and its, subsidiaries (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2001).    
         90   

Table of Contents  

10.17  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).   

10.18  
      
  Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of August 26, 2011, among Lockheed Martin Corporation and the banks listed therein (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on September 1, 2011).   

10.19  
      
  Lockheed Martin Supplemental Retirement Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
ended December 31, 2010).   

10.20  
      
  Joint Venture Master Agreement, dated as of May 2, 2005, by and among Lockheed Martin Corporation, The Boeing Company and United Launch Alliance, L.L.C. (incorporated by reference
to Exhibit 10.2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005).   

10.21  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Nonqualified Capital Accumulation Plan, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).   

10.22  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Severance Benefit Plan For Certain Management Employees, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010).   

10.23  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation 2009 Directors Equity Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix E to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Definitive Proxy Statement on schedule 14A
filed with the SEC on March 14, 2008).   

10.24  
      
  Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2009).   

10.25  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation Special Termination Plan for Certain Management Employees (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 27, 2010).   

10.26  
      
  Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004).   

10.27  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004).   

10.28  
      
  Form of Lockheed Martin Corporation Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreement (2006-2008 performance periods) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance
Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 2, 2006).   

10.29  
      
  Form of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreement (2007-2009 Performance Period) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive
Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006).   

10.30  
      
  Forms of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreements (2008-2010 performance period), Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements and Forms of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreements
under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.39 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007).   

10.31  
      
  Forms of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreements (2009-2011 performance period), Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements and Forms of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreements
under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008).   

10.32  
      
  Forms of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreements (2010-2012 performance period), Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements and Forms of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreements
under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2009).    
         91   

Table of Contents  

10.33  
      
  Form of Stock Option Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.2 of Lockheed Martin
Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 3, 2011).   

10.34  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.3 of Lockheed
Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the SEC on February 3, 2011).   

10.35  
      
  LTIP award agreement forms as approved on February 24, 2011 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
the SEC on February 25, 2011).   

10.36  
      
  Amendment to Stock Option Award Agreement (Grant Date: January 31, 2011) (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form
10-Q for the quarter ended June 26, 2011).   

10.37  
      
  Post-Retirement Consulting Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
June 26, 2011).   

10.38  
      
  Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Lockheed Martin Corporation s Definitive Proxy Statement on
schedule 14A filed with the SEC on March 11, 2011).   

10.39.  
      
  Forms of Long-Term Incentive Performance Award Agreements (2012-2014 performance period), Forms of Stock Option Award Agreements and Forms of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreements
under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan.   

10.40  
      
  Retirement Transition Agreement and Consulting Agreement with Ralph D. Heath, dated January 26, 2012.   

12  
      
  Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges.   

21  
      
  Subsidiaries of Lockheed Martin Corporation.   

23  
      
  Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.   

24  
      
  Powers of Attorney.   

31.1  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Robert J. Stevens.   

31.2  
      
  Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Bruce L. Tanner.   

32.1  
      
  Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 of Robert J. Stevens.   

32.2  
      
  Certification Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 of Bruce L. Tanner.   

101.INS  
      
  XBRL Instance Document   

101.SCH  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document   

101.CAL  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document   

101.DEF  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document   

101.LAB  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document   

101.PRE  
      
  XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document   

*  
      
  Exhibits 10.1 through 10.17 and 10.21 through 10.40 constitute management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.   
 
         92   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this Form 10-K to be
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION    

/s/ Christopher J. Gregoire    
 
  Christopher J. Gregoire   
 
  Vice President and Controller   
 
  (Chief Accounting Officer)   
 
   Date: February 23, 2012   
         93   

Table of Contents  

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Form 10-K has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capabilities and on the dates indicated.       

Signatures      
      
     Title     
      
     Date      

/s/ Robert J. Stevens   
  ROBERT J. STEVENS   
      
  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Christopher E. Kubasik   
  CHRISTOPHER E. KUBASIK   
      
  President and Chief Operating Officer  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Bruce L. Tanner   
  BRUCE L. TANNER   
      
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Christopher J. Gregoire   
  CHRISTOPHER J. GREGOIRE   
      
  Vice President and Controller (Chief Accounting Officer)  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Nolan D. Archibald*   
  NOLAN D. ARCHIBALD   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Rosalind G. Brewer*   
  ROSALIND G. BREWER   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ David B. Burritt*   
  DAVID B. BURRITT   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ James O. Ellis Jr.*   
  JAMES O. ELLIS JR.   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Thomas J. Falk*   
  THOMAS J. FALK   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Gwendolyn S. King*   
  GWENDOLYN S. KING   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ James M. Loy*   
  JAMES M. LOY   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Douglas H. McCorkindale*   
  DOUGLAS H. MCCORKINDALE   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Joseph W. Ralston*   
  JOSEPH W. RALSTON   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    
 
     /s/ Anne Stevens*   
  ANNE STEVENS   
      
  Director  

February 23, 2012    

*By:   
     
    /s/ Maryanne R. Lavan   
        
  February 23, 2012   

(MARYANNE R. LAVAN, Attorney-in-fact**)  

** By authority of Powers of Attorney filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.    
 
         94   

<EX-10.14>
 2
 d221578dex1014.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.14

Exhibit 10.14 

Exhibit 10.14       This document constitutes part of a prospectus covering securities that have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933.       LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION        DEFERRED MANAGEMENT INCENTIVE
       COMPENSATION PLAN       (As Amended and Restated Effective January 26, 2012)       ARTICLE I
       PURPOSES OF THE PLAN       The purposes of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Deferral Plan ) are to provide certain key management employees of Lockheed Martin
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) the opportunity to defer receipt of (i) Incentive Compensation awards under the Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the  MICP  (ii) Long
Term Incentive Award payments under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan (the  Omnibus Plan ) and the Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  IPA
Plan  and (iii) certain benefits payable under the Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers ( Death Benefit Plan ). Providing this opportunity to defer income under the Deferral Plan
will encourage key employees to maintain a financial interest in the Company s performance. Except as expressly provided hereinafter, the provisions of this Deferral Plan and the MICP, the Omnibus Plan, the IPA Plan, and the Death Benefit Plan
shall be construed and applied independently of each other.      The Deferral Plan applies solely to MICP awards, Long Term
Incentive Award payments under the Omnibus Plan and the IPA Plan, and certain payments under the Death Benefit Plan, and expressly does not apply to any special awards which may be made under any of the Company s other incentive plans, except
and to the extent specifically provided under the terms of such other incentive plans and the relevant awards.      The Deferral
Plan was amended and restated, effective January 1, 2005, in order to comply with the requirements of Code section 409A. The 2005 amendment and restatement of the Deferral Plan applied only to the portion of a Participant s Account Balance
that is earned or becomes vested on or after January 1, 2005 (and any earnings or losses attributable to that portion). The portion of a Participant s Account Balance that was earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (and any
earnings or losses attributable to that portion) shall be governed by the terms of the Deferral Plan in effect on December 31, 2004, which is attached hereto as Appendix A. The Deferral Plan was subsequently amended and restated, effective
January 1, 2007, to permit eligible executives of the Company to defer payments that are available to them pursuant to the partial termination of the Death Benefit Plan.   

The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective January 1, 2008 to modify the
annual installment payment option to conform to other nonqualified plans maintained by the Company. The Deferral Plan and Appendix A were further amended and restated, effective January 1, 2008, to provide for new investment options in which
Participants may invest their Account Balances, whether earned and vested before or after January 1, 2005. The addition of the new investment option in Appendix A is not intended to constitute a material modification within the meaning of Code
section 409A.      The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective June 26, 2008, to clarify certain provisions in
accordance with the final Treasury regulations issued under Code section 409A, and to make other administrative changes. The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective December 31, 2008, to clarify additional provisions in accordance
with the final Treasury regulations issued under Code section 409A and to make other administrative clarifications. The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective February 26, 2009, to prospectively eliminate an investment option and
change the number of available installment payments.      The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective December 31,
2010, to clarify additional provisions in accordance with the final Treasury regulations issued under Code section 409A and to make other administrative clarifications. The Deferral Plan was amended and restated, effective October 25, 2011, to
reflect changes to the administrative requirements for Company Deferrals for certain Long Term Incentive Awards issued in 2011 and later years and to permit participants in the Sandia National Laboratories, Inc. Long Term Incentive Performance Award
Plan to defer cash awards to the Deferral Plan. The Deferral Plan is hereby amended and restated to permit participants in the Applied NanoStructured Solutions, LLC Management Incentive Compensation Plan to defer cash awards to the Deferral Plan.
      ARTICLE II        DEFINITIONS       Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following words
and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter indicated:      1. ACCOUNT   The bookkeeping account maintained by the
Company for each Participant which is credited with the Participant s Deferred Compensation and earnings (or losses) attributable to the investment options selected by the Participant, and which is debited to reflect distributions and
forfeitures; the portions of a Participant s Account allocated to different investment options and the portions attributable to the deferral of Incentive Compensation awards, Long Term Incentive Award payments, and Death Benefit payments will
be accounted for separately.      2. ACCOUNT BALANCE   The total amount credited to a Participant s Account at any point
in time, including the portions of the Account allocated to each investment option.   
         2   

3. AWARD YEAR   As to Incentive Compensation, the calendar year with respect to which
an Eligible Employee is awarded Incentive Compensation; as to a Long Term Incentive Award payment and the related Company Deferral, the first calendar year in the Performance Period for which the Long Term Incentive Award is effective with respect
to an Eligible Employee.      4. BENEFICIARY   The person or persons (including a trust or trusts) validly designated by a
Participant, on the form provided by the Company, to receive distributions of the Participant s Account Balance, if any, upon the Participant s death. In the absence of a valid designation, or if the designated Beneficiary has predeceased
the Participant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the personal representative of the Participant s estate in the event of a Participant s death. A Participant may amend his or her Beneficiary designation at any time before the
Participant s death.      5. BOARD   The Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation.   
  6. CODE   the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, including the regulations and guidance of general
applicability thereunder.      7. COMMITTEE   The committee described in Section 1 of Article VIII.   
  8. COMMON STOCK   The $1.00 par value common stock of the Company.   
  9. COMPANY   Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.   
  10. COMPANY DEFERRALS   The amount deferred by the Company, and not at the election of the Participant, for a two-year (one-year, if
applicable) period following the end of a Performance Period for a Long Term Incentive Award.      11. COMPANY STOCK INVESTMENT
OPTION   The investment option under which the amount credited to a Participant s Account will be based on the market value and investment return of the Company s Common Stock.   
  12. DEATH BENEFIT   The amount payable to an Eligible Employee pursuant to Article X, Section 1 of the Death Benefit Plan.
     13. DEATH BENEFIT PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Post-Retirement Death Benefit Plan for Elected Officers.
     14. DEFERRAL AGREEMENT   The written agreement executed by an Eligible Employee on the form provided by the Company
under which the Eligible Employee elects to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award Year, a Long Term Incentive Award and any related Company Deferral for an Award Year, or a Death Benefit payable pursuant to the Death Benefit Plan.   
         3   

15. DEFERRAL PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive
Compensation Plan, adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995, and as amended from time to time.      16. DEFERRED COMPENSATION
  The amount of Incentive Compensation credited to a Participant s Account under the Deferral Plan, the amount of any Long Term Incentive Award payment credited to a Participant s Account under the Deferral Plan (other than Company
Deferrals), and the amount of the Death Benefit payment credited to a Participant s Account under the Deferral Plan.      17.
ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE   An employee of the Company who is a participant in the MICP, who receives a Long Term Incentive Award under the Omnibus Plan, the IPA Plan, or the Sandia National Laboratories, Inc. Long Term Performance Award Plan, or who
is eligible to receive a Death Benefit under the Death Benefit Plan, and who has satisfied such additional requirements for participation in this Deferral Plan as the Committee may from time to time establish. In the exercise of its authority under
this provision, the Committee shall limit participation in the Plan to employees whom the Committee believes to be a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security
Act of 1974, as amended.      18. EXCHANGE ACT   The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   
  19. INCENTIVE COMPENSATION   The MICP amount granted to an employee for an Award Year.   
  20 IPA PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Amended and Restated 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan.   
  21. INTEREST OPTION   The investment option under which earnings will be credited to a Participant s Account based on the
interest rate applicable under Cost Accounting Standard 415, Deferred Compensation.      22. INVESTMENT FUND OPTION   The
investment option under which earnings will be credited to a Participant s Account based on the market value and investment return of the investment options (including target date funds and core funds (and successor funds), and excluding the
Company Stock Fund, ESOP Fund, and Self-Managed Account) that are available to participants pursuant to the terms of the Qualified Savings Plan, provided that the Committee retains the discretion to add certain funds to, or to exclude certain funds
from, the Investment Fund Option.      23. LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARD   A long term incentive performance award granted to an
employee under the Omnibus Plan, the IPA Plan, or the Sandia National Laboratories, Inc. Long Term Incentive Award Plan.      24.
MICP   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan, the 2006 Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan (for incentive compensation awarded after February 1, 2006), or the Applied
NanoStructured Solutions, LLC Management Incentive Compensation Plan (beginning with the 2012 Award Year).   
         4   

25. OMNIBUS PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan.
     26. PARTICIPANT   An Eligible Employee for whom Incentive Compensation, a Long Term Incentive Award payment, or a Death
Benefit payment has been deferred for one or more years under this Deferral Plan; the term shall include a former employee whose Deferred Compensation has not been fully distributed.   
  27. PAYMENT DATE   As to any Participant, the January 15 or July 15 on or about on which payment to the Participant is to
be made or to begin in accordance with Article V.      28. PERFORMANCE PERIOD   The period set forth in a Long Term Incentive
Award over which the Company s performance is measured by reference to total stockholder return to determine whether any payment will be made under such Long Term Incentive Award.   
  29. QUALIFIED SAVINGS PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Salaried Savings Plan or any successor plan.   
  30. SECTION 16 PERSON   A Participant who is subject to the reporting and short-swing liability provisions of Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on the date a Deferral Agreement or other election form is delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Deferral Plan.      31. SPECIFIED EMPLOYEE   A Participant who is reasonably determined to a be a  specified employee  within the meaning of Code section 409A(2)(B)(i) as of December 31 of a calendar year
and who shall be treated as such for the 12-month period beginning the next April 1 and for twelve calendar months thereafter.      32. SUBSIDIARY   As to any person, any corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which 50% or more of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of
entities other than corporation), is owned or controlled (directly or indirectly) by that entity, or by one or more of the Subsidiaries of that entity, or by a combination thereof.   
  32A. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT   A separation from service as such term is defined in Code section 409A and the regulations
thereunder.      33. TRADING DAY   A day upon which transactions with respect to Company Common Stock are reported in the
consolidated transaction reporting system.   
         5   

ARTICLE III        ELECTION OF DEFERRED AMOUNT       1.  Timing of Deferral Elections .
     (a)  Incentive Compensation . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award
Year by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than June 30 of the Award Year.      (b)  Long Term Incentive Awards and Company Deferrals . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer the payment of a Long Term Incentive Award and a Company Deferral for an Award Year by executing and
delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement as of a date specified by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources, which shall be no later than six months prior to the end of the Performance Period.   
  (c)  Irrevocability of Elections . No Eligible Employee shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement
after the applicable deadline described in Section 1(a), Section 1(b), or Section 1(d) of this Article III for delivering a Deferral Agreement to the Company, provided no Section 16 Person shall have the right to modify or revoke
a Deferral Agreement after such applicable deadline or, if earlier, after the date the agreement has been delivered to the Company. The Senior Vice President, Human Resources may establish policies and procedures to determine when a Deferral
Agreement or other election called for under this Plan has been delivered to the Company. Each Deferral Agreement that relates to an Award Year shall apply only to amounts deferred in that Award Year, and a separate Deferral Agreement must be
completed for each Award Year for which an Eligible Employee defers Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award. A Deferral Agreement relating to a Death Benefit payment shall relate only to such Death Benefit payment.   
  (d)  Death Benefit . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer a Death Benefit payable under the Death Benefit Plan by
executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than the date specified by the Senior Vice President, Human Resources in accordance with Code section 409A.   
  2.  Amount of Deferral Elections . An Eligible Employee s deferral election may be stated as:   
  (a) a dollar amount which is at least $5,000 and is an even multiple of $1,000;   
  (b) the greater of $5,000 or a designated percentage of the Eligible Employee s Incentive Compensation, Long Term
Incentive Award payment, or Death Benefit payment;   
         6   

(c) the excess of the Eligible Employee s Incentive Compensation, Long
Term Incentive Award payment, or Death Benefit payment over a dollar amount specified by the Eligible Employee; or      (d) all of the Eligible Employee s Incentive Compensation, Long Term Incentive Award payment, or Death Benefit payment.      In the case of a deferral election under paragraph (c) of this Section 2, an Eligible Employee s deferral election shall be effective only if the resulting excess amount is at least $5,000.
     3.  Effect of Taxes on Deferred Compensation . The amount that would otherwise be deferred and credited to an Eligible
Employee s Account will be reduced by the amount of any tax that the Company is required to withhold with respect to the Deferred Compensation. The reduction for taxes shall be made proportionately out of amounts otherwise allocable to the
Interest Option, the Company Stock Investment Option, or the Investment Fund Option.      4.  Multiple Awards . In the case
of an Eligible Employee who receives more than one Long Term Incentive Award with respect to the same Performance Period, the elections made by the Eligible Employee under this Article III as well as under Articles V and VI for the first Long Term
Incentive Award granted to the Eligible Employee with respect to a Performance Period shall be deemed to be the elections made by that Eligible Employee for any other Long Term Incentive Awards granted to that Eligible Employee with respect to that
same Performance Period.      5.  Company Deferrals . Pursuant to the terms of certain Long Term Incentive Awards issued
under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan, 50% of the amount payable at the end of the Performance Period will be automatically deferred until the second anniversary (or first anniversary, if applicable) of the last day of the Performance Period with
respect to a particular award. The Company may establish an account for Company Deferrals under the Company Stock Investment Option of this Deferral Plan. However, the terms governing the Company Deferrals will be governed for the two year (one
year, if applicable) period of deferral by the terms of the award agreement entered into under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan with respect to the Long Term Incentive Award and not by this Deferral Plan except to the extent the award agreement
expressly refers to the terms of this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant elects to defer the Company Deferrals beyond the second (or first, if applicable) anniversary of the end of the Performance Period, the deferrals
will be treated as made under this Deferral Plan for the period following the second (or first, if applicable) anniversary of the end of the Performance Period.       ARTICLE IV        CREDITING OF ACCOUNTS    
  1.  Crediting of Deferred Compensation . Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award payment, that a Participant has
elected to defer under this Deferral Plan shall be credited to the Participant s Account as of the Trading Day set by action of the   
         7   

Committee or, if the Committee does not act to set such a day, on the second Trading Day which follows the date of approval of the related Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award
payment (other than Company Deferrals). A Death Benefit payment that a Participant has elected to defer under this Deferral Plan shall be credited to the Participant s Account as of the date on which the amount of the Death Benefit payment was
determined and paid to eligible employees absent any election to defer. If the Company establishes an account for Company Deferrals pursuant to Section 5 of Article III, the Company Deferrals shall be credited to such account as of the last
Trading Day in the Performance Period. Any Deferred Compensation credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Interest Option shall be credited at the dollar amount of such credits. Any Deferred Compensation and Company Deferral
credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited as if the dollar amount of credits had been invested in the Company s Common Stock at the published closing price of the
Company s Common Stock on the applicable Trading Day described in this Section 1. Any Deferred Compensation and Company Deferral credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Investment Fund Option shall be credited as if
the dollar amount of credits had been invested in the applicable fund at the published closing price of the applicable fund on the applicable Trading Day described in this Section 1.   
  2.  Crediting of Earnings .      (a)  General Rules .      (i) Earnings (or losses) shall be
credited to a Participant s Account based on the investment option or options to which the Account has been allocated beginning with the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV.   
  (ii) Any amount distributed from a Participant s Account in cash pursuant to Article V shall be credited with
earnings (or losses) through the Trading Day that is four (4) business days prior to the date on which a distribution is to be made. Any amount distributed from a Participant s Account in stock pursuant to Article V shall be credited with
earnings (or losses) through the last Trading Day preceding the date on which a distribution is to be made.   
  (iii) Company Deferrals shall be credited with earnings (or losses) through the last Trading Day in the period which ends
on the second anniversary (first anniversary, if applicable) of the end of the applicable Performance Period unless deferred further pursuant to a Deferral Agreement.   
  (b)  Interest Option . The portion of a Participant s Account allocated or reallocated to the Interest Option
shall be credited with interest, valued daily, while so allocated or reallocated at a rate equivalent to the then published rate for computing the present value of future benefits at the time cost is assignable under Cost Accounting Standard 415,
Deferred Compensation, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on a semi-annual basis pursuant to Pub. L. 92-41, 85 Stat. 97. Effective with respect to amounts deferred on or after February 26, 2009, no Incentive Compensation may be
invested in the Interest Option. Amounts deferred prior to February 26, 2009 may remain invested in the Interest Option   
         8   

until such amounts are transferred to the Company Stock Investment Option or the Investment Fund Option on or after July 1, 2009. No amounts may be credited or reallocated to the Interest
Option on or after July 1, 2009.      (c)  Company Stock Investment Option .   
  (i) The portion of a Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited when so
allocated on the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV as if such amount had been invested in the Company s Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company s Common Stock on such Trading Day.   
  (ii) The portion of the Participant s Account Balance allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall reflect
any post-allocation appreciation or depreciation in the market value of the Company s Common Stock based on the published closing price of the stock on each Trading Day and shall reflect dividends paid and any other distributions made with
respect to the Company s Common Stock.      (iii) Cash dividends shall be treated as if such dividends had
been reinvested in the Company s Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company s Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the cash dividend is paid or, if the dividend is paid on a day which is not a Trading Day, on the
Trading Day which immediately precedes the day the dividend is paid.      (d)  Investment Fund Option .
Earnings (or losses) shall be credited to a Participant s Account based on the investment option or options within the Investment Fund Option to which his or her Account has been allocated. The manner in which earnings (or losses) are credited
under each of the investment options shall be determined in the same manner as under the Qualified Savings Plan. The procedures for directing the allocation and reallocation among the investment options in the Investment Fund Option shall be the
same as the procedures for making allocations under the Qualified Savings Plan.      3.  Election of Investment Options . A
Participant s initial investment elections for a particular type of award for an Award Year or a Death Benefit shall be made in his or her Deferral Agreement for such Award Year or Death Benefit, and no Participant shall have the right to
modify or revoke any such election after the time the Participant no longer has the right to make or revoke a Deferral Agreement under Section 1 of Article II. A Participant s allocations between investment options shall be subject to such
minimum allocations as the Committee may establish. In the event a Participant fails to specify an investment election in his or her Deferral Agreement, the amount subject to that Deferral Agreement shall be deemed allocated to the Interest Option
for amounts credited before December 31, 2008 and to the default option designated under the Qualified Savings Plan for amounts credited on or after December 31, 2008.   
         9   

4.  Reallocation Among Investment Options . Effective June 16, 2008 ,  a
Participant may reallocate the portion of his Account Balance that is invested in the Interest Option and the Investment Fund Option to the Interest Option (through June 30, 2009), the Company Stock Investment Option, and the various investment
funds in the Investment Fund Option, subject to the trading restrictions that apply to the transfer and reallocation of investments under the terms of the Qualified Savings Plan, applied as if such Qualified Savings Plan restrictions also pertain to
the Interest Option; provided that a Participant may not at any time reallocate the portion of his Account Balance that has been invested at any time in the Company Stock Investment Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any election by a
Section 16 Person to reallocate any portion of his Account Balance to the Company Stock Investment Option shall only become effective if the election is made at least six months following the most recent election with respect to any plan of the
Corporation that involved the disposition of the Corporation s equity securities pursuant to a  Discretionary Transaction  (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 16b-3). No amounts may be credited or reallocated to the Interest Option on or
after July 1, 2009.       ARTICLE V        PAYMENT OF BENEFITS       1.  General .   
  (a)  Account Balance and Elections . The Company s liability to pay benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary
under this Deferral Plan shall be measured by and shall in no event exceed the Participant s Account Balance. Except as otherwise provided in this Deferral Plan (including but not limited to Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company
Deferrals), a Participant s Account Balance shall be paid to him in accordance with the Participant s elections under this Article V.      (b)  Cash and Stock Payments . All benefit payments shall be made in cash to the extent a Participant s Account is allocated to the Interest Option or Investment Fund Option or is attributable
to Company Deferrals and shall be made in whole shares of the Company s Common Stock to the extent that a Participant s Account is allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option (other than with respect to Company Deferrals) and, except
as otherwise provided, shall reduce allocations to the Interest Option, Investment Fund Option, and the Company Stock Investment Option in the same proportions that the Participant s Account Balance is allocated between those investment options
at the end of the month preceding the date of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount of Deferred Compensation attributable to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be distributed to a Section 16 Person under this Deferral
Plan unless such amount was allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option in accordance with Section 1 of Article IV at least six months prior to the date of distribution. At the Company s discretion a distribution of Common Stock may
  
         10   

be made directly to a Participant or to a brokerage account opened in the name of the Participant. When an Account is distributed in a lump sum or, if an Account is distributed in installments,
cash shall be distributed (or withheld for payment of applicable taxes) at that time in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock. The cash distribution in lieu of fractional shares shall be based on the published closing price of the
Company s Common Stock on the last Trading Day preceding the date the distribution is scheduled to be made.      2.
 Election for Commencement of Payment . At the time a Participant completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect from among the following options governing the date on which the payment of benefits shall commence:   
  (a) Payment to begin on the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant s Termination of Employment with
the Company for any reason.      (b) Payment to begin on the first Payment Date of the year next following the year
in which the Participant has a Termination of Employment with the Company for any reason.      (c) Payment to begin
on the first Payment Date of the year next following the date on which the Participant has both had a Termination of Employment with the Company for any reason and attained the age designated by the Participant in the Deferral Agreement.   
  Notwithstanding a Participant s election or any other provision of the Deferral Plan, the following specific rules apply to Participants who are
Section 16 Persons or Specified Employees. Subject to the rules regarding distributions to a Specified Employee, any payment of benefits in the form of shares of Common Stock that would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the Company reasonably anticipates that the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in
liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Any distributions to a Specified Employee (including a Section 16 Person) on account of a termination of employment shall commence or be made on the Payment Date determined pursuant to the
Specified Employee s election (or as otherwise provided under this Deferral Plan), except that if such Payment Date would be within six (6) months of the date of the Specified Employee s Termination of Employment from the Company,
distributions shall commence or be made on the next date that is at least six (6) months following such termination of employment, regardless of whether such date is a Payment Date.   
  3.  Election for Form of Payment . At the time a Participant completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect the form of
payment of his or her Deferred Compensation for the specified Award Year or Death Benefit, as applicable, from among the following options:      (a) A lump sum.   
         11   

(b) Annual installment payments for a period of years designated by the
Participant not to exceed:      (i) Fifteen (15) annual installments for distributions commencing prior to
January 1, 2008:      (ii) Twenty (20) annual installments for distributions commencing on or after
January 1, 2008 and prior to January 1, 2010:      (iii) Twenty-Five (25) annual installments for
distributions commencing on or after January 1, 2010;      Such election shall be irrevocable except as provided in
Section 4 of this Article V. The amount of each annual payment shall be determined by dividing the Participant s Account Balance at the end of the month prior to such payment by the number of installment payments then remaining in the
designated installment period.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Account Balance of a Participant who is entitled to begin
payment equals $10,000 or less, the Participant s Account Balance shall be paid in a single lump sum payment in full discharge of all liabilities with respect to such benefits.   
  4.  Prospective Change of Payment Elections .   
  (a) If a Participant has different payment options in effect with respect to his or her Account Balance, the Company shall
maintain sub-accounts for the Participant to determine the amounts subject to each payment election.      (b) In
the event a Participant does not make a valid election with respect to the commencement of payment and form of benefit for an Award Year or for a Death Benefit, the Participant will be deemed to have elected that payment of benefits with respect to
that Award Year or Death Benefit be made in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant s termination of employment.      (c) A Participant s election with respect to an Award Year or Death Benefit (including a  deemed election  in accordance with the preceding paragraph) shall remain in effect unless and
until such election is modified by a subsequent election in accordance with (d) below.      (d)
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article V, a Participant may make a new election with respect to the commencement of payment and form of payment with respect to any sub-account maintained for Award Years or a Death Benefit or with
respect to his or her entire Account Balance. A new election under this section shall be made by executing and delivering to the Company an election in such form as prescribed by the Company. To constitute a valid election by a Participant making a
prospective   
         12   

change to a previous election, (i) the prospective election must be executed and delivered to the Company at least twelve (12) months before the date the first payment would be due
under the Participant s previous election, and (ii) the first payment must be delayed by at least sixty (60) months from the date the first payment would be due under the Participant s previous election, and (iii) such
change in election shall not be given effect until twelve 12 months from the date that the change in election is delivered to the Company. In the event an election fails to satisfy the provisions set forth in this paragraph, such election shall be
void and, if such an election is void, payment shall be made in accordance with the most recent election which was valid.      (e) Notwithstanding the above, for periods prior to January 1, 2009, (or such later date as may be provided by the Internal Revenue Service in guidance of general applicability), the Senior Vice
President, Human Resources may provide alternative rules for elections with respect to the commencement of payment and form of payment that conform to the rules provided in Notice 2005-1, and subsequent Internal Revenue Service guidance providing
transition relief under Code section 409A.      (f) A Participant may not make or modify an election with respect
to commencement of payment or form of payment after the date a Participant terminates employment.      5.  Distribution upon
Early Termination . Notwithstanding a Participant s payment elections under this Article V, subject to the requirements of Code section 409A, if the Participant terminates employment with the Company, other than by reason of death or
disability (as defined in Section 8(b) of this Article V), and before the Participant has attained age 55, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, the Participant s Account Balance shall be
distributed to him or her in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant s Termination of Employment with the Company; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 6 from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution
with respect to such portion to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the Company reasonably anticipates that the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would
otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Distributions under this Section 5 are subject to any delay in distribution required for Specified Employees as provided in Section 2 of this Article V.
     6.  Acceleration Upon Conflict of Interest . Notwithstanding a Participant s payment elections under this Article
V, if following a Participant s termination of employment with the Company, the Participant takes a position (or accepts a position) with a governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality and that employer has determined that the
Participant s continued participation in the Plan may constitute a conflict of interest precluding the Participant from continuing in his position (or from accepting an offered position) with that employer or subjecting the Participant to
penalty, sanction, or otherwise limiting the Participant s   
         13   

responsibilities for that employer, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, then, to the extent reasonably necessary, the Participant s Account
Balance shall be distributed to him or her in a lump sum as soon as practical (but no later than 90 days) following the later of (i) the date on which the Participant commences employment with the government employer; or (ii) the date on
which it is determined or indicated that the conflict of interest may exist; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6 from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the
Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until
the earliest date upon which the Company reasonably anticipates that the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. This
Section 6 of Article V shall apply, however, only to the extent that the accelerated payment upon a conflict of interest determination conforms to Code section 409A.      7.  Benefits Payable Upon Death . Upon the death of a Participant before a complete distribution of his or her Account Balance, the Account Balance will be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary
in accordance with the payment elections applicable to the Participant. If a Participant dies while actively employed or otherwise before the payment of benefits has commenced, payments to the Beneficiary shall commence on the date payments to the
Participant would have commenced, taking account of the Participant s Termination of Employment (by death or before) and, if applicable, by postponing commencement until after the date the Participant would have attained the commencement age
specified by the Participant. Whether the Participant dies before or after the commencement of distributions, payments to the Beneficiary shall be made for the period or remaining period elected by the Participant.   
  8.  Early Distributions in Special Circumstances . Notwithstanding a Participant s payment elections under this Article V, a
Participant or Beneficiary may request an earlier distribution in the following limited circumstances (except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals):   
  (a)  Hardship Distributions . A Participant may apply for a hardship distribution pursuant to this Section 8(a)
on such form and in such manner as the Committee shall prescribe and, subject to the last sentence of this Section 8(a) with respect to Section 16 Persons, the Committee shall have the power and discretion at any time to approve a payment
to a Participant if the Committee determines that the Participant is suffering from an unforeseeable severe financial emergency (within the meaning of Code section 409A(A)(2)(A)(vi) and 409A(A)(2)((B)(ii)) caused by circumstances beyond the
Participant s control which would cause a hardship to the Participant unless such payment were made. Any such hardship payment will be in a lump sum and will not exceed the lesser of (i) the amount necessary to satisfy the financial
emergency (taking account of the income tax liability associated with the distribution), or (ii) the Participant s Account Balance; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(a) from
the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the
  
         14   

date of distribution with respect to such portion to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the Company reasonably anticipates that the distribution
either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. The Committee s determination under this Section 8(a) shall conform to the requirements
of Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(iv).      (b)  Disability . If the Committee determines that a Participant has
become permanently disabled within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(C) of the Code before the Participant s entire Account Balance has been distributed, the Participant s remaining Account Balance will be distributed within 90 days
in a lump sum payment; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(b) from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result
in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the Company reasonably
anticipates that the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.   
  9.  Acceleration upon Change in Control .      (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Deferral Plan, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, the Account Balance of each Participant shall be
distributed in a single lump sum within fifteen (15) calendar days following a  Change in Control.       (b) For purposes of this Deferral Plan, a Change in Control shall include and be deemed to occur upon the following events:   
  (i) A tender offer or exchange offer is consummated for the ownership of securities of the Company representing 25% or
more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.      (ii) The Company is merged, combined, consolidated, recapitalized or otherwise reorganized with one or more other entities that are not the Company s Subsidiaries and, as a result of the merger,
combination, consolidation, recapitalization or other reorganization, less than 75% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall immediately after the event be owned in the aggregate by the stockholders of the
Company (directly or indirectly), determined on the basis of record ownership as of the date of determination of holders entitled to vote on the action (or in the absence of a vote, the day immediately prior to the event).   
         15   

(iii) Any person (as this term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of
the Exchange Act, but excluding any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1 (b)(1) thereunder), becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.   
  (iv) At any time within any period of two years after a tender offer, merger, combination, consolidation,
recapitalization, or other reorganization or a contested election, or any combination of these events, the  Incumbent Directors  shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the authorized number of members of the Board. For purposes
hereof,  Incumbent Directors  shall mean the persons who were members of the Board immediately before the first of these events and the persons who were elected or nominated as their successors or pursuant to increases in the size of the
Board by a vote of at least three-fourths of the Board members who were then Board members (or successors or additional members so elected or nominated).      (v) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of liquidation and dissolution or the sale or transfer of substantially all of the Company s business and/or assets as an entirety to an entity that
is not a Company Subsidiary.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, no distribution shall be made solely on account of a Change in
Control and prior to the benefit commencement date specified in Section 2 of Article V unless the Change in Control is an event qualifying for a distribution of deferred compensation under both the definition of Change in Control in this Plan
and in Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code.      (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(a), if
a distribution in accordance with the provisions of Section 9(a) would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act with respect to any Section 16 Person, then the date of distribution to such
Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the Company reasonably anticipates that the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under
Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.      (d) This Section 9 shall apply only to a Change in Control of
Lockheed Martin Corporation and shall not cause immediate payout of Deferred Compensation in any transaction involving the Company s sale, liquidation, merger, or other disposition of any subsidiary.   
  (e) The Committee may cancel or modify this Section 9 at any time prior to a Change in Control. In the event of a
Change in Control, this Section 9 shall remain in force and effect, and shall not be subject to cancellation or   
         16   

modification for a period of five years, and any defined term used in Section 9 shall not, for purposes of Section 9, be subject to cancellation or modification during the five-year
period.      10.  Deductibility of Payments . Subject to the provisions of Code section 409A, in the event that the Company
reasonably anticipates that the payment of benefits in accordance with the Participant s election under Section 3 of this Article VI would prevent the Company from claiming an income tax deduction with respect to any portion of the
benefits paid under Code section 162(m), the Committee shall have the right to delay the timing of distributions from the Participant s Account as necessary to maximize the Company s tax deductions. In the exercise of its discretion to
adopt a delayed distribution schedule, the Committee shall undertake to have distributions made at such times and in such amounts as the Company reasonably anticipates, or should reasonably anticipate, that if the payment is made during such year,
the deduction will not be barred by Code section 162(m) or upon a Termination of Employment in accordance with Treasury Regulation section 1.409A-2(b)(7)(i), consistent with the objective of maximum deductibility for the Company. The Committee shall
have no authority to reduce a Participant s Account Balance or to pay aggregate benefits less than the Participant s Account Balance in the event that all or a portion thereof would not be deductible by the Company. All scheduled payments
under this Plan and any other plan required to be aggregated with this Plan must be delayed in order for such payment to be delayed pursuant to this Section 8.      11.  Change of Law . Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if the Committee determines in good faith, based on consultation with counsel and in accordance with the requirements of Code
section 409A, that the Federal income tax treatment or legal status of the Plan has or may be adversely affected by a change in the Code, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or other applicable law or by an administrative
or judicial construction thereof, the Committee may direct that the Accounts of affected Participants or of all Participants be distributed as soon as practicable after such determination is made, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the
Committee to cure or mitigate the consequences, or possible consequences of, such change in law or interpretation thereof.   
  12.  Tax Withholding . To the extent required by law, the Company shall withhold from benefit payments hereunder, or with respect to
any Incentive Compensation, Long Term Incentive Award, or Death Benefit payment deferred hereunder or credit contributed by the Company under Article IV, any Federal, state, or local income or payroll taxes required to be withheld and shall furnish
the recipient and the applicable government agency or agencies with such reports, statements, or information as may be legally required.       ARTICLE VI        EXTENT OF PARTICIPANTS  RIGHTS    
  1.  Unfunded Status of Plan . This Deferral Plan constitutes a mere contractual promise by the Company to make payments in the
future, and each Participant s rights shall be those of a general, unsecured creditor of the Company. No Participant shall have any beneficial interest in any specific assets that the Company may hold or set aside in
  
         17   

connection with this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to assist the Company in meeting its obligations under this Deferral Plan, the Company may set aside assets in a trust described
in Revenue Procedure 92-64, 1992-2 C.B. 422, and the Company may direct that its obligations under this Deferral Plan be satisfied by payments out of such trust. The assets of any such trust will remain subject to the claims of the general creditors
of the Company. It is the Company s intention that the Deferral Plan be unfunded for Federal income tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.   
  2.  Nonalienability of Benefits . A Participant s rights under this Plan shall not be assignable or transferable and any
purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Plan, or any interest therein shall not be permitted or recognized, other than the designation of, or passage of payment rights to, a
Beneficiary. Notwithstanding, any portion of a Participant s benefit under this Plan may be paid to a spouse, former spouse, or child pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order (which shall be interpreted and administered in accordance
with Code sections 414(p)(1)(B) and 409A), provided that the form of payment designated in such order is a lump sum payment described in Section 3(a) of Article V of this Deferral Plan.   
   ARTICLE VII        AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION       1.  Amendment . The Board or its authorized
delegate may amend, modify, suspend or discontinue this Deferral Plan at any time subject to any shareholder approval that may be required under applicable law, provided, however, that no such amendment shall have the effect of reducing a
Participant s Account Balance or postponing the time when a Participant is entitled to receive a distribution of his Account Balance. Further, no amendment may alter the formula for crediting interest to Participants  Accounts with respect
to amounts for which deferral elections have previously been made, unless the amended formula is not less favorable to Participants than that previously in effect, or unless each affected Participant consents to such change.   
  2.  Termination . The Board reserves the right to terminate this Plan at any time and to pay all Participants their Account Balances
in any form and at such times that the Board reasonably determines in its discretion is appropriate and conforms to the requirements of Code section 409A; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 2 would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the
distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.      3.  Transfer of Liability . The Board reserves the right to transfer to another entity all of the obligations of Company with respect to a Participant under this Plan if such entity agrees pursuant
to a binding written agreement to assume all of the obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to such Participant.   
         18   

ARTICLE VIII        ADMINISTRATION       1.  The Committee . This Deferral Plan shall be
administered by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board and constituted so as to permit this Deferral Plan to comply with the disinterested
administration requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act. The members of the Committee shall be designated by the Board. A majority of the members of the Committee (but not fewer than two) shall constitute a quorum. The vote of a majority of a
quorum or the unanimous written consent of the Committee shall constitute action by the Committee. The Committee and the Claims Administrator (identified in Section 6 below) shall have full authority to interpret the Plan, and interpretations
of the Plan by the Committee or the Claims Administrator shall be final and binding on all parties. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Deferral Plan or in any document issued under the Deferral Plan, it is intended that the Deferral Plan will
at all times conform to the requirements of Code section 409A and any regulations or other guidance issued thereunder, and that the provisions of the Deferral Plan will be interpreted to meet such requirements. If any provision of the Deferral Plan
is determined not to conform to such requirements, the Deferral Plan shall be interpreted to omit such offending provision.   
  2.  Delegation and Reliance . The Committee has delegated to the officers or employees of the Company the authority to execute and
deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Deferral Plan in accordance with its terms and purpose, except that
the Committee has not delegated (and may not delegate) any authority the delegation of which would cause this Deferral Plan to fail to satisfy the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3. In making any determination or in taking or not taking any
action under this Deferral Plan, the Committee or its delegate may obtain and rely upon the advice of experts, including professional advisors to the Company. No member of the Committee or officer of the Company who is a Participant hereunder may
participate in any decision specifically relating to his or her individual rights or benefits under the Deferral Plan.      3.
 Exculpation and Indemnity . Neither the Company nor any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating in any determination of any question under this Deferral Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or
application thereof, shall have any liability to any party for any action taken or not taken in good faith under this Deferral Plan or for the failure of the Deferral Plan or any Participant s rights under the Deferral Plan to achieve intended
tax consequences, to qualify for exemption or relief under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, or to comply with any other law, compliance with which is not required on the part of the Company.   
  4.  Facility of Payment . If a minor, person declared incompetent, or person incapable of handling the disposition of his or her
property is entitled to receive a benefit, make an application, or make an election hereunder, the Committee or the Claims Administrator may direct that such benefits be paid to, or such application or election be made by, the guardian, legal
representative, or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent, or   
         19   

incapable person. Any payment made, application allowed, or election implemented in accordance with this Section shall completely discharge the Company and the Committee (or the Claims
Administrator) from all liability with respect thereto.      5.  Proof of Claims . The Committee or the Claims Administrator
may require proof of the death, disability, incompetency, minority, or incapacity of any Participant or Beneficiary and of the right of a person to receive any benefit or make any application or election.   
  6.  Claim Procedures . The procedures when a claim under this Deferral Plan is wholly or partially denied by the Claims
Administrator are as follows:      (a) The Claims Administrator shall, within 90 days after receipt of a claim,
furnish to claimant a written notice setting forth, in a manner calculated to be understood by claimant: (1) the specific reason or reasons for the denial; (2) specific reference to pertinent Deferral Plan provisions on which the denial is
based; (3) a description of any additional materials or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; (4) an explanation of the steps to be taken if the
claimant wishes to have the denial reviewed; and (5) a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination on review. The 90-day period may be extended for not more
than an additional 90 days if special circumstances make such an extension necessary. The Claims Administrator shall give the claimant, before the end of the initial 90-day period, a written notice of such extension, stating such special
circumstances and the date by which the Claims Administrator expects to render a decision.      (b) By a written
application filed with the Claims Administrator within 60 days after receipt by claimant of the written notice described in paragraph (a), the claimant or his duly authorized representative may request review of the denial of his claim.   
  (c) In connection with such review, the claimant or his duly authorized representative may submit issues, comments,
documents, records and other information relating to the claim for benefits to the Claims Administrator. In addition, the claimant will be provided, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, or other
information  relevant  to claimant s claim for benefits. A document, record, or other information is  relevant  if it: (1) was relied upon in making the benefit determination; (2) was submitted, considered or
generated in the course of making the benefit determination, without regard to whether such document, record or information was relied upon in making the benefit determination; or (3) demonstrates compliance with administrative processes and
safeguards required under Federal law.      (d) The Deferral Plan will provide an impartial review that takes into
account all comments, records and other information submitted by the claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or   
         20   

considered in the initial benefit determination. The Claims Administrator shall make a decision and furnish such decision in writing to the claimant within 60 days after receipt by the Claims
Administrator of the request for review. This period may be extended to not more than 120 days after such receipt if special circumstances make such an extension necessary. The claimant will be notified in writing prior to the expiration of the
original 60-day period if such an extension is required, and such notice will include the reason for the extension and the date by which it is expected that a decision will be reached. The decision on review shall be in writing, set forth in a
manner calculated to be understood by the claimant and shall include: (1) the specific reasons for the decision; (2) specific reference to the pertinent Deferral Plan provisions on which the decision is based; (3) a statement that the
claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of all documents, records, and other information  relevant  to the claimant s claim for benefits; (4) a description of any
additional material or information necessary for the claimant to perfect the claim and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; (5) a statement describing any voluntary appeal procedures and the claimant s right to
obtain information about such procedures, if any; and (6) a statement of the claimant s right to bring a civil action under section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse benefit determination on review. If in the event that the reviewing
committee must make a determination of disability in order to decide a claim, the reviewing committee shall follow the special claims procedures for disability benefits described in Department of Labor Regulation section 2560.503-1(d). The reviewing
committee shall render a decision within a reasonable time (not to exceed 90 days) after the claimant s request for review, rather than within 120 days as set forth in the above paragraph.   
  (e) The Claims Administrator shall be the Lockheed Martin Corporation Savings Plan Administrative Committee.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to claims and appeals brought by elected officers of the Company, the Claims Administrator shall be the Committee.      ARTICLE IX      GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS   
  1.  No Guarantee of Employment or Award . Neither this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral nor a Participant s Deferral
Agreement, either singly or collectively, shall in any way obligate the Company to continue the employment of a Participant with the Company, nor does either this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement limit the right of the
Company at any time and for any reason to terminate the Participant s employment. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications constitute an
employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company and a Participant. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications in any way obligate
the Company to award Incentive Compensation, grant any award under the Omnibus Plan or IPA Plan, pay any Death Benefit, or make any Long Term Incentive Award payment to any Eligible Employee for any Award Year, whether or not the
  
         21   

Eligible Employee is a Participant in the Deferral Plan for that Award Year, nor in any other way limit the right of the Company to change an Eligible Employee s compensation or other
benefits.      2.  Notice . Any written notice to the Company referred to herein shall be made by mailing or delivering such
notice to the Company at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, to the attention of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Any written notice to a Participant shall be made by delivery to the Participant in person, through electronic
transmission, or by mailing such notice to the Participant at his or her last-known place of residence or business address.   
  3.  Performance of Acts . In the event it should become impossible for the Company or the Committee to perform any act required by
this Deferral Plan, the Company or the Committee may perform such other act as it in good faith determines will most nearly carry out the intent and the purpose of this Deferral Plan.   
  4.  Employee Consent . By electing to become a Participant hereunder, each Eligible Employee shall be deemed conclusively to have
accepted and consented to all of the terms of this Deferral Plan.      5.  Terms Binding . The provisions of this Deferral
Plan and the Deferral Agreements hereunder shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors, and its assigns, and to the Participants and their heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives.   
  6.  Copy of Plan . A copy of this Deferral Plan shall be available for inspection by Participants or other persons entitled to
benefits under the Deferral Plan at reasonable times at the offices of the Company.      7.  State Law . The validity of this
Deferral Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed, administered, and governed in all respects under and by the laws of the State of Maryland, except as to matters of Federal law. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court
of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be fully effective.   
  8.  Regulatory Requirements . This Deferral Plan and its operation, including but not limited to, the mechanics of deferral
elections, the reallocation of all or a portion of a Participant s Account Balance, the issuance of securities, if any, or the payment of cash hereunder is subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and regulations
(including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws) and such other approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be
necessary or advisable in connection therewith.      9.  Section 16 of Exchange Act . It is the intent of the Company
that this Deferral Plan satisfy and be interpreted in a manner, that, in the case of Participants who are or may be Section 16 Persons, satisfies any applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or other exemptive rules under
Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not   
         22   

subject Section 16 Persons to short-swing profit liability thereunder. If any provision of this Deferral Plan would otherwise frustrate or conflict with the intent expressed in this
Section 9, that provision to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict. To the extent of any remaining irreconcilable conflict with this intent, the provision shall be deemed disregarded.
Similarly, any action or election by a Section 16 Person with respect to the Deferral Plan to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid liability under Section 16 or, if this is not possible, to the extent
necessary to avoid liability under Section 16, shall be deemed ineffective. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Deferral Plan, the provisions of this Deferral Plan may at any time be bifurcated by the Board or the Committee in any
manner so that certain provisions of this Deferral Plan are applicable solely to Section 16 Persons. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deferral Plan to the contrary, if a distribution which would otherwise occur is prohibited or
proposed to be delayed because of the provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or the provisions of the Deferral Plan designed to ensure compliance with Section 16, the Section 16 Person involved may affirmatively elect in writing
to have the distribution occur in any event; provided that the Section 16 Person shall concurrently enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Committee in its sole discretion for the satisfaction of any and all liabilities, costs and expenses
arising from this election.      10.  Securities Laws . This Deferral Plan, allocations to and from the Company Stock
Investment Option and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and/or other securities or property or the payment of cash under this Deferral Plan, are subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and state laws, rules and
regulations (including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws and Federal margin requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the
opinion of counsel for the Company be necessary or advisable to comply with all legal requirements. Any securities delivered under this Deferral Plan shall be subject to such restrictions (and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested
by the Company provide such evidence, assurance and representations to the Company as to compliance with any thereof) as counsel to the Company may deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements.   
  11.  Electronic Notice and Signatures . Whenever a signature notice or delivery of a document is required or appropriate under this
Deferral Plan, signature, notice or delivery may be accomplished by paper or written format or, to the extent authorized by the Committee, by electronic means. In the event the Committee authorizes electronic means for the signature, notice or
delivery of a document under this Deferral Plan, the electronic record or confirmation of that signature, notice or delivery maintained by or on behalf of the Committee shall for purposes of this Deferral Plan be treated as if it was a written
signature or notice and was delivered in the manner provided herein for a written document.   
         23   

ARTICLE X        EFFECTIVE DATE       This Deferral Plan was originally adopted by the Board on
July 27, 1995 and became effective upon adoption to awards of Incentive Compensation for the Company s fiscal year ending December 31, 1995 and subsequent fiscal years. Subsequent amendments to the Deferral Plan are effective as of
the date stated in the amendment or the adopting resolution.      This Deferral Plan has been amended and restated effective as of
the date stated on the first page herein.   
         24   

APPENDIX A       This Appendix A shall govern the portion of a Participant s Account Balance that was earned and vested prior to January 1, 2005 (and any earnings attributable to that portion). This Appendix A
shall not apply to the portion of a Participant s Account Balance that is earned or becomes vested on or after January 1, 2005 (and any earnings attributable to that portion).   
   ARTICLE I    
   PURPOSES OF THE PLAN       The purposes of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Deferral Plan ) are to provide certain key management employees of Lockheed Martin
Corporation and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) the opportunity to defer receipt of (i) Incentive Compensation awards under the Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive Compensation Plan (the  MICP ) and
(ii) Long Term Incentive Award payments under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan (the  Omnibus Plan ) and the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  IPA
Plan ). Providing this opportunity to defer income under the Deferral Plan will encourage key employees to maintain a financial interest in the Company s performance. Except as expressly provided hereinafter, the provisions of this
Deferral Plan and the MICP, the Omnibus Plan and the IPA Plan shall be construed and applied independently of each other.      The
Deferral Plan applies solely to MICP awards and Long Term Incentive Award payments under the Omnibus Plan and the IPA Plan and expressly does not apply to any special awards which may be made under any of the Company s other incentive plans,
except and to the extent specifically provided under the terms of such other incentive plans and the relevant awards.   
   ARTICLE II    
   DEFINITIONS       Unless the context indicates otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings hereinafter indicated:      1. ACCOUNT   The bookkeeping account maintained by the Company for each Participant which is credited with the Participant s Deferred Compensation and earnings (or losses) attributable to the
investment options selected by the Participant, and which is debited to reflect distributions and forfeitures; the portions of a Participant s Account allocated to different investment options and the portions attributable to the deferral of
Incentive Compensation awards and Long Term Incentive Award payments will be accounted for separately.   
         25   

2. ACCOUNT BALANCE   The total amount credited to a Participant s Account at any
point in time, including the portions of the Account allocated to each investment option.      3. AWARD YEAR   As to
Incentive Compensation, the calendar year with respect to which an Eligible Employee is awarded Incentive Compensation; as to a Long Term Incentive Award payment and the related Company Deferral, the first calendar year in the Performance Period for
which the Long Term Incentive Award is effective with respect to an Eligible Employee.      4. BENEFICIARY   The person or
persons (including a trust or trusts) validly designated by a Participant, on the form provided by the Company, to receive distributions of the Participant s Account Balance, if any, upon the Participant s death. In the absence of a valid
designation, or if the designated Beneficiary has predeceased the Participant, the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the personal representative of the Participant s estate in the event of a Participant s death. A Participant may
amend his or her Beneficiary designation at any time before the Participant s death.      5. BOARD   The Board of
Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation.      6. COMMITTEE   The committee described in Section 1 of Article VIII.
     7. COMMON STOCK   The $1.00 par value common stock of the Company.   
  8. COMPANY   Lockheed Martin Corporation and its subsidiaries.   
  9. COMPANY DEFERRALS   The amount deferred by the Company, and not at the election of the Participant, for the two-year period
following the end of a Performance Period for a Long Term Incentive Award.      10. COMPANY STOCK INVESTMENT OPTION   The
investment option under which the amount credited to a Participant s Account will be based on the market value and investment return of the Company s Common Stock.      11. DEFERRAL AGREEMENT   The written agreement executed by an Eligible Employee on the form provided by the Company under which the Eligible Employee elects to defer Incentive Compensation for an
Award Year, or a Long Term Incentive Award and any related Company Deferral for an Award Year.      12. DEFERRAL PLAN   The
Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan, adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995, and as amended from time to time.   
         26   

13. DEFERRED COMPENSATION   The amount of Incentive Compensation credited to a
Participant s Account under the Deferral Plan and the amount of any Long Term Incentive Award payment credited to a Participant s Account under the Deferral Plan (other than Company Deferrals).   
  14. ELIGIBLE EMPLOYEE   An employee of the Company who is a participant in the MICP or who receives a Long Term Incentive Award
under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan and who has satisfied such additional requirements for participation in this Deferral Plan as the Committee may from time to time establish. In the exercise of its authority under this provision, the Committee
shall limit participation in the Plan to employees whom the Committee believes to be a select group of management or highly compensated employees within the meaning of Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
     15. EXCHANGE ACT   The Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   
  16. INCENTIVE COMPENSATION   The MICP amount granted to an employee for an Award Year.   
  17. IPA PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation 2003 Incentive Performance Award Plan.   
  18. INTEREST OPTION   The investment option under which earnings will be credited to a Participant s Account based on the
interest rate applicable under Cost Accounting Standard 415, Deferred Compensation.      19. INVESTMENT FUND OPTION   The
investment option under which earnings (or losses)will be credited to a Participant s Account based on the market value and investment return of the investment options (including target date funds and core funds (and successor funds), and
excluding the Company Stock Fund, ESOP Fund, and Self-Managed Account) that are available to participants pursuant to the terms of the Qualified Savings Plan, provided that the Committee retains the discretion to add certain funds to, or to exclude
certain funds from, the Investment Fund Option.      20. LONG TERM INCENTIVE AWARD   A long term incentive award granted to
an employee under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan.      21. MICP   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Management Incentive
Compensation Plan.      22. OMNIBUS PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation 1995 Omnibus Performance Award Plan.   
  23. PARTICIPANT   An Eligible Employee for whom Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award payment has been deferred for
one or more years under this Deferral Plan; the term shall include a former employee whose Deferred Compensation has not been fully distributed.   
         27   

24. PAYMENT DATE   As to any Participant, the January 15 or July 15 on or
about on which payment to the Participant is to be made or to begin in accordance with Article V.      25. PERFORMANCE PERIOD
  The period set forth in a Long Term Incentive Award over which the Company s performance is measured by reference to total stockholder return to determine whether any payment will be made under such Long Term Incentive Award.. QUALIFIED
SAVINGS PLAN   The Lockheed Martin Corporation Salaried Savings Plan or any successor plan.      26. REALLOCATION EFFECTIVE
DATE   The date a reallocation elected by a Participant or Beneficiary under Section 6(a) of Article IV is effected, which shall be the June 30, July 31, August 31 or September 30 immediately following the end
of the Reallocation Election Period in which his or her election under Section 6(a) becomes irrevocable.      27.
REALLOCATION ELECTION PERIOD   A period in which a Participant or Beneficiary may under Section 6(a) of Article IV elect a reallocation of his or her Account Balance from one investment option to another investment option, and there shall
be four such election periods: June 1 through June 15, 2004, June 16 through July 15, 2004, July 16 through August 15, 2004 and August 16 through September 15, 2004.   
  28. SECTION 16 PERSON   A Participant who is subject to the reporting and short-swing liability provisions of Section 16 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 on the date a Deferral Agreement or other election form is delivered to the Company in accordance with the terms of this Deferral Plan.      29. SUBSIDIARY   As to any person, any corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which 50% or more of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of
entities other than corporation), is owned or controlled (directly or indirectly) by that entity, or by one or more of the Subsidiaries of that entity, or by a combination thereof.   
  30. TRADING DAY   A day upon which transactions with respect to Company Common Stock are reported in the consolidated transaction
reporting system.       ARTICLE III        ELECTION OF DEFERRED AMOUNT       1.  Timing of Deferral Elections .
     (a)  Incentive Compensation . An Eligible Employee may elect to defer Incentive Compensation for an Award Year by
executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than October 31 of the Award Year, provided that any election by a Section 16 Person shall be subject to the provisions of Section 4 of Article IV.   
         28   

(b)  Long Term Incentive Awards and Company Deferrals . An Eligible Employee may elect
to defer the payment of a Long Term Incentive Award and a Company Deferral for an Award Year by executing and delivering to the Company a Deferral Agreement no later than October 31 of the Award Year, provided that any election by a
Section 16 Person shall be subject to the provisions of Section 4 of Article IV.      (c)  Irrevocability of
Elections . No Eligible Employee shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement for an Award Year after the applicable deadline described in Section 1(a) and Section 1(b) of this Article III for delivering a Deferral
Agreement to the Company for such Award Year, provided no Section 16 Person shall have the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement after such applicable deadline or, if earlier, after the date the agreement has been delivered to the
Company. The Committee may establish policies and procedures to determine when a Deferral Agreement or other election called for under this Plan has been delivered to the Company. Each Deferral Agreement shall apply only to amounts deferred in that
Award Year and a separate Deferral Agreement must be completed for each Award Year for which an Eligible Employee defers Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award.      2.  Amount of Deferral Elections . An Eligible Employee s deferral election may be stated as:      (a) a dollar amount which is at least $5,000 and is an even multiple of $1,000,   
  (b) the greater of $5,000 or a designated percentage of the Eligible Employee s Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award
payment (adjusted to the next highest multiple of $1,000),      (c) the excess of the Eligible Employee s Incentive
Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment over a dollar amount specified by the Eligible Employee (which must be an even multiple of $1,000), or      (d) all of the Eligible Employee s Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment.      An Eligible Employee s deferral election shall be effective only if the Participant is awarded, in the case of Incentive Compensation, at least $10,000 of Incentive Compensation for that Award Year,
or in the case of Long Term Incentive Award, at least $10,000 is payable to the Participant in cash at the conclusion of the Performance Period applicable to a Long Term Incentive Award payment. In addition, in the case of a deferral election under
paragraph (c) of this Section 2, an Eligible Employee s deferral election shall be effective only if the resulting excess amount is at least $5,000.      3.  Effect of Taxes on Deferred Compensation . The amount that would otherwise be deferred and credited to an Eligible Employee s Account will be reduced by the amount of any tax that the
Company is required to withhold with respect to the Deferred Compensation. The reduction for taxes shall be made proportionately out of amounts otherwise allocable to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option.   
         29   

4.  Multiple Awards . In the case of an Eligible Employee who receives more than one
Long Term Incentive Award with respect to the same Performance Period, the elections made by the Eligible Employee under this Article III as well as under Articles V and VI for the first Long Term Incentive Award granted to the Eligible Employee
with respect to a Performance Period shall be deemed to be the elections made by that Eligible Employee for any other Long Term Incentive Awards granted to that Eligible Employee with respect to that same Performance Period.   
  5.  Company Deferrals . Pursuant to the terms of the Long Term Incentive Awards, 50% of the amount payable at the end of the
Performance Period will be automatically deferred until the second anniversary of the last day of the Performance Period with respect to a particular award. The Company may establish an account for Company Deferrals under the Company Stock
Investment Option of this Deferral Plan. However, the terms governing the Company Deferrals will be governed for the two year period of deferral by the terms of the award agreement entered into under the Omnibus Plan or the IPA Plan with respect to
the Long Term Incentive Award and not by this Deferral Plan except to the extent the award agreement expressly refers to the terms of this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Participant elects to defer the Company Deferrals beyond
the second anniversary of the end of the Performance Period, the deferrals will be treated as made under this Deferral Plan for the period following the second anniversary of the end of the Performance Period.   
   ARTICLE IV    
   CREDITING OF ACCOUNTS       1.  Crediting of Deferred Compensation . Incentive Compensation or a Long Term Incentive Award payment that a Participant has elected to defer under this Deferral Plan shall be credited to the
Participant s Account as of the Trading Day set by action of the Committee or, if the Committee does not act to set such a day, on the second Trading Day which follows the date of approval of the related Incentive Compensation or Long Term
Incentive Award. If the Company establishes an account for Company Deferrals pursuant to Section 5 of Article III, the Company Deferrals shall be credited to such account as of the last Trading Day in the Performance Period. Any Deferred
Compensation credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Interest Option shall be credited at the dollar amount of such credits. Any Deferred Compensation and Company Deferral credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to
the Company Stock Investment Option shall be credited as if the dollar amount of credits had been invested in the Company s Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company s Common Stock on the applicable Trading Day described
in this Section 1. Any Deferred Compensation and Company Deferral credits under this Section 1 which are allocable to the Investment Fund Option shall be credited as if the dollar amount of credits had been invested in the applicable fund
at the published closing price of the applicable fund on the applicable Trading Day described in this Section 1.   
         30   

2.  Crediting of Earnings (Losses) and Reallocations .   
  (a)  General Rules .      (i) Earnings (or losses) shall be credited to a Participant s Account based on the investment option or options to which the Account has been allocated beginning with the applicable Trading Day
described in this Article IV.      (ii) Earnings (or losses) on amounts reallocated in accordance with this Article
IV shall be credited to the Participant s Account as of the applicable day or Trading Day described for such reallocation in this Article IV.      (iii) Any amount distributed from a Participant s Account in cash pursuant to Article V shall be credited with earnings (or losses) through the Trading Day that is four (4) business days prior
to the Payment Date on which a distribution is to be made. Any amount distributed from a Participant s Account in stock pursuant to Article V shall be credited with earnings (or losses) through the last Trading Day preceding the date on which a
distribution is to be made.      (iv) Company Deferrals shall be credited with earnings (or losses) through the
last Trading Day in the period which ends on the second anniversary of the end of the applicable Performance Period unless deferred further pursuant to a Deferral Agreement.   
  (b)  Interest Option . The portion of a Participant s Account allocated or reallocated to the Interest Option
shall be credited with interest, valued daily, while so allocated or reallocated at a rate equivalent to the then published rate for computing the present value of future benefits at the time cost is assignable under Cost Accounting Standard 415,
Deferred Compensation, as determined by the Secretary of the Treasury on a semi-annual basis pursuant to Pub. L. 92-41, 85 Stat. 97. No amounts may be reallocated to the Interest Option on or after July 1, 2009. Amounts deferred prior to
January 1, 2005 may remain invested in the Interest Option until such amounts are transferred to the Company Stock Investment Option or the Investment Fund Option on or after July 1, 2009.   
  (c)  Company Stock Investment Option .   
  (i) The portion of a Participant s Account allocated or reallocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be
credited when so allocated or reallocated on the applicable Trading Day described in this Article IV as if such amount had been invested in the Company s Common Stock at the published closing price of the Company s Common Stock on such
Trading Day.      (ii) The portion of the Participant s Account Balance allocated to the Company Stock
Investment Option shall reflect any post-allocation appreciation or depreciation in the market value of the Company s Common Stock based on the published closing price of the stock on each Trading Day and shall reflect dividends paid and any
other distributions made with respect to the Company s Common Stock.      (iii) Cash dividends shall be
treated as if such dividends had been reinvested in the Company s Common Stock at the published closing price of the   
         31   

Company s Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the cash dividend is paid or, if the dividend is paid on a day which is not a Trading Day, on the Trading Day which immediately precedes
the day the dividend is paid.      (iv) If any portion of a Participant s Account was reallocated in
accordance with paragraph 5 (or paragraph 4 prior to October 1, 2004) of this Article IV from the Company Stock Investment Option to the Interest Option or the , the reallocation shall be credited to the Interest Option as if the Company s
Common Stock had been bought or sold at the published closing price of the Company s Common Stock on the Trading Day on which the reallocation is effective, or if the reallocation is effective as of the day that is not a Trading Day, the
Trading Day which immediate precedes the effective date of the reallocation.      (d)  Investment Fund
Option . Earnings (or losses) shall be credited to a Participant s Account based on the investment option or options within the Investment Fund Option to which his or her Account has been allocated. The manner in which earnings (or losses)
are credited under each of the investment options shall be determined in the same manner as under the Qualified Savings Plan. The procedures for directing the allocation and reallocation among the investment options in the Investment Fund Option
shall be the same as the procedures for making allocations under the Qualified Savings Plan.      3.  Election of Investment
Options . A Participant s initial investment elections for a particular type of award for an Award Year shall be made in his or her Deferral Agreement for such Award Year, and no Participant shall (except as provided for in Section 6
and Section 7 of this Article IV) have the right to modify or revoke any such election after the time the Participant no longer has the right to modify or revoke a Deferral Agreement under Section 1 of Article III. A Participant s
allocations between investment options shall be subject to such minimum allocations as the Committee may establish.      4.
 Special Rule for Section 16 Persons . An election by a Section 16 Person to have any Deferred Compensation allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option shall be effective on the Trading Day described in Section 1 of this
Article IV unless he or she delivers the related Deferral Agreement to the Company less than six months before such Trading Day. If he or she delivers the related Deferral Agreement to the Company less than six months before such date, his or her
Company Stock Investment Option election automatically shall be treated as an Interest Option election under Section 1 of this Article IV until the first Trading Day of the seventh month following the month in which the Deferral Agreement is
delivered to the Company. The Deferred Compensation so allocated to the to the Interest Option together with any related interest credits shall by operation of this Deferral Plan automatically be reallocated and credited to the Company Stock
Investment Option on such Trading Day in accordance with Section 2(b) of this Article IV.       Reallocations to Interest
Option (deleted effective September 30, 2004) . If benefit payments to a Participant or Beneficiary are to be paid or commenced to be paid over a period that extends more than six months after the date of the Participant s termination
of employment with the Company, the Participant or Beneficiary, as applicable, may make a one-time   
         32   

irrevocable election under this Section 5 at any time after the Participant s termination of employment and before the completion of benefit payments to have the portion of the
Participant s Account that is allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option reallocated to the Interest Option. A reallocation under this Section 5 shall take effect as of the first Trading Day of the month following the month in which
an executed reallocation election is delivered to the Company, provided an election by a Participant or Beneficiary who is a Section 16 Person on the date the election is delivered to the Company shall be effective only if such election
satisfies on such date all the requirements of the exemption under Rule l6b-3 of the Exchange Act for a  discretionary transaction  or otherwise would not result in a short swing profit recovery pursuant to Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange
Act. In the event such election does not satisfy the exemption pursuant to Rule l6b-3 under the Exchange Act for a  discretionary transaction  and if giving effect to the election would result in liability under Section 16(b) of the
Exchange Act, the election shall not be given effect until the first Trading Day of the month following the month in which the election could be given effect without creating liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act. Notwithstanding
anything herein to the contrary, no election may be made under this Section 5 after September 15, 2004, and any such election made during September 2004 will be valued and take effect as of September 30, 2004.   
  5.  One-Time Reallocation Right .      (a)  General Rule . Subject to Section 5(b) of this Article IV, a Participant or Beneficiary may during a Reallocation Election Period execute and deliver to the Company an election made on such
form and in such manner as prescribed by the Committee to the Company to reallocate all or a portion (in five (5) percent increments) of his or her Account Balance (other than Company Deferrals) which is then allocated to one investment option
to the other investment option. Any such election shall be irrevocable when received by the Company, and the reallocation which the Participant or Beneficiary elects shall be effective as of the Reallocation Effective Date that immediately follows
the end of the Reallocation Election Period in which his or her election becomes irrevocable. Only one reallocation election may be made by a Participant or Beneficiary with the result that a reallocation made in one Reallocation Election Period
will preclude a reallocation election in a subsequent Reallocation Election Period.      (b)  Exception . If a Participant or
a Beneficiary is a Section 16 Person on any date in a Reallocation Election Period and delivers an election to the Company in such period, such election shall have no force or effect under Section 6(a) unless such election complies with
the exemption under Rule l6b-3 of the Exchange Act for a  discretionary transaction .      (c)  Additional Credit .
The Company shall credit to the Account of each Participant or Beneficiary that has Deferred Compensation (other than Company Deferrals) credited to the Stock Investment Option as of September 30, 2004 an amount equal to the greater of
(i) $24.95 per Account Balance; or (ii) $0.10 for each whole share of Common Stock reflected in the Participant s or Beneficiary s Account Balance (exclusive of Company Deferrals). Such amount shall be allocated and credited to
the Interest Option as of September 30, 2004, after taking into account any reallocation under Section 6(a) of this Article IV.   
         33   

6.  Reallocation Among Investment Options . Effective June 16, 2008 ,  a
Participant may reallocate the portion of his Account Balance that is invested in the Interest Option and the Investment Fund Option to the Interest Option (through June 30, 2009), the Company Stock Investment Option, and the various investment
funds in the Investment Fund Option, subject to the trading restrictions that apply to the transfer and reallocation of investments under the terms of the Qualified Savings Plan, applied as if such Qualified Savings Plan restrictions also pertain to
the Interest Option; provided that a Participant may not at any time reallocate the portion of his Account Balance that is invested at any time in the Company Stock Investment Option. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any election by a Section 16
Person to reallocate any portion of his Account Balance to the Company Stock Investment Option shall only become effective if the election is made at least six months following the most recent election with respect to any plan of the Corporation
that involved the disposition of the Corporation s equity securities pursuant to a  Discretionary Transaction  (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 16b-3). . No amounts may be reallocated to the Interest Option on or after July 1,
2009.       ARTICLE V        PAYMENT OF BENEFITS       1.  General .   
  (a)  Account Balance and Elections . The Company s liability to pay benefits to a Participant or Beneficiary under this
Deferral Plan shall be measured by and shall in no event exceed the Participant s Account Balance. Except as otherwise provided in this Deferral Plan (including but not limited to Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company
Deferrals), a Participant s Account Balance shall be paid to him in accordance with the Participant s elections under this Article V.      (b)  Cash Only Payment . With respect to benefit payments made on a Payment Date which is on or before September 30, 2004, all such benefit payments shall be made in accordance with the terms of
this Deferral Plan as in effect on such date in cash and, except as otherwise provided under such terms, shall reduce allocations to the Interest Option and the Company Stock Investment Option in the same proportions that the Participant s
Account Balance is allocated between those investment options at the end of the month preceding the date of distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount of Deferred Compensation shall be distributed to a Section 16 Person under this
Deferral Plan which is attributable to the Stock Investment Option unless such amount was allocated to the Participant s Account in accordance with Section 1 of Article 4 at least six months prior to the date of distribution or no portion
of such amount was allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option in the six months prior to distribution.      (c)  Cash and
Stock Payments . With respect to benefit payments made after September 30, 2004, all such benefit payments shall be made in cash to the extent a Participant s Account is allocated to the Interest Option or Investment Fund Option or is
attributable to Company Deferrals and shall be made in whole shares of the Company s Common Stock to the   
         34   

extent that a Participant s Account is allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option (other than with respect to Company Deferrals) and, except as otherwise provided, shall reduce
allocations to the Interest Option, the Investment Fund Option, and the Company Stock Investment Option in the same proportions that the Participant s Account Balance is allocated between those investment options at the end of the month
preceding the date of distribution (for distributions occurring prior to June 16, 2008) or the Trading Day that is four (4) business days prior to the date of the distribution (for distributions occurring on or after June 16, 2008).
Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amount of Deferred Compensation shall be distributed to a Section 16 Person under this Deferral Plan unless such amount was allocated to the Participant s Account in accordance with Section 1 of
Article 4 at least six months prior to the date of distribution. At the Company s discretion a distribution of Common Stock may be made directly to a Participant or to a brokerage account opened in the name of the Participant. When an Account
is distributed in a lump sum or, if an Account is distributed in installments, when the final installment is made, cash shall be distributed (or withheld for applicable taxes) at that time in lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock. The cash
distribution in lieu of fractional shares shall be based on the published closing price of the Company s Common Stock on the last Trading Day preceding the date the distribution is scheduled to be made.   
  2.  Election for Commencement of Payment . At the time a Participant first completes a Deferral Agreement, he or she shall elect
from among the following options governing the date on which the payment of benefits shall commence:      (a) Payment to begin on
the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant s termination of employment with the Company for any reason.   
  (b) Payment to begin on the first Payment Date of the year next following the year in which the Participant terminates employment with
the Company for any reason.      (c) Payment to begin on the Payment Date next following the date on which the Participant has
both terminated employment with the Company for any reason and attained the age designated by the Participant in the Deferral Agreement.   
  Notwithstanding a Participant s election, any payment of benefits in the form of shares of Common Stock that would otherwise commence within six
months of the date on which a Participant ceased to be Section 16 Person shall not be paid on that date but instead shall be paid on the first Payment Date that is at least six months after the date on which that Participant ceased to be a
Section 16 Person.      3.  Election for Form of Payment . At the time a Participant first completes a Deferral
Agreement, he or she shall elect the form of payment of his or her Account Balance from among the following options:       

(A)  
  A lump sum.         

(B)  
    Annual installment payments for a period of years designated by the Participant, which shall not exceed fifteen (15) annual installments. The
amount of each annual payment shall be determined by dividing the Participant s Account Balance at the      
         35   

end of the month prior to such payment by the number of installment payments then remaining in the designated installment period. The installment period may be shortened, in the sole discretion
of the Committee, if the Committee at any time determines that the amount of the annual payments that would be made to the Participant during the designated installment period would be too small to justify the maintenance of the Participant s
Account and the processing of payments.        4.  Prospective Change of Payment Elections .   
  (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Article V, a Participant may make an election with respect to the commencement of
payment (from among the options set forth in Section 2(A), (B), or (C) above) and form of payment (from among the options set forth in Section 3(A) or (B) above) of his or her entire Account Balance, or with respect to specific
Award Years, by executing and delivering to the Company an election form on or after October 1, 2002 in such form as prescribed by the Company. If a Participant has different payment options in effect with respect to his or her Account Balance,
the Company shall maintain sub-accounts for the Participant to determine the amounts subject to each payment election; however, no election or modification of an election will be accepted if it would require the Company to maintain more than five
sub-accounts within the Participant s Account in order to make payments in accordance with the Participant s elections.      (b) In the event a Participant does not make a valid election with respect to the commencement of payment and form of benefit for an Award Year commencing on or after October 1, 2002, the Participant
will be deemed to have elected that payment of benefits with respect to that Award Year be made in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant s termination of employment.   
  (c) A Participant s election with respect to an Award Year (including a  deemed election  in accordance with the preceding
paragraph) shall remain in effect unless and until such election is modified by a subsequent election in accordance with the second preceding paragraph above.      (d) To constitute a valid election by a Participant making a prospective change to a previous election, the prospective election must be executed and delivered to the Company (i) at least six months
before the date the first payment would be due under the Participant s previous election and (ii) in a different calendar year than the date the first payment would be due under the Participant s previous election. In the event an
election fails to satisfy the provisions set forth in this paragraph, such election shall be void and, if such an election is void, payment shall be made in accordance with the most recent election which was valid. In addition, no prospective
election will be considered valid to the extent the prospective election would (i) result in a payment being made within six months of the date of the prospective election or (ii) result in a payment under the prospective election in the
same calendar year as the date of the prospective election. In the event a prospective election fails to satisfy the provisions set forth in the preceding sentence, the first payment under the prospective election will be delayed until the first
Payment Date that is both (i) at least six months after the date of the prospective election and (ii) in a calendar year after the date of the prospective election.   
         36   

(e) A Participant may not make or modify an election with respect to commencement of payment
or form of payment after the date a Participant terminates employment.      5.  Acceleration upon Early Termination .
Notwithstanding a Participant s payment elections under this Article V, if the Participant terminates employment with the Company other than by reason of layoff, death or disability and before the Participant is eligible to commence receiving
retirement benefits under a pension plan maintained by the Company (or before the Participant has attained age 55 if the Participant does not participate in such a pension plan), except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to
Company Deferrals, the Participant s Account Balance shall be distributed to him or her in a lump sum on or about the Payment Date next following the date of the Participant s termination of employment with the Company; provided, however,
that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 5 would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to any Section 16
Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.   
  6.  Acceleration Upon Conflict of Interest . Notwithstanding a Participant s payment elections under this Article V, if
following a Participant s termination of employment with the Company, the Participant takes a position (or accepts a position) with a governmental entity, agency, or instrumentality and that employer has determined or indicated that the
Participant s continued participation in the Plan may constitute a conflict of interest precluding the Participant from continuing in his position (or from accepting an offered position) with that employer or subjecting the Participant to
penalty, sanction, or otherwise limiting the Participant s responsibilities for that employer, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company Deferrals, then the Participant s Account Balance shall be
distributed to him or her in a lump sum as soon as practical following the later of (i) the date on which the Participant commences employment with the government employer; or (ii) the date on which it is determined or indicated that the
conflict of interest may exist. This Section 6 shall be applicable only to the extent that such distribution conforms to Code section 409A.      7.  Death Benefits .      (a)  General Rule . Upon the death of a
Participant before a complete distribution of his or her Account Balance, the Account Balance will be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary in accordance with the payment elections applicable to the Participant. If a Participant dies while
actively employed or otherwise before the payment of benefits has commenced, payments to the Beneficiary shall commence on the date payments to the Participant would have commenced, taking account of the Participant s termination of employment
(by death or before) and, if applicable, by postponing commencement until after the date the Participant would have attained the commencement age specified by the Participant. Whether the Participant dies before or after the commencement of
distributions, payments to the Beneficiary shall be made for the period or remaining period elected by the Participant.   
         37   

(b)  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 7(a) of this Article V, in the event
that a Participant dies before the Participant s entire Account Balance has been distributed, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may modify the timing of distributions from the Participant s Account, including the commencement date and
number of distributions, if it concludes that such modification is necessary to relieve the financial burdens of the Participant s Beneficiary; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 7(b) from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of
distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability
under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.      8.  Early Distributions in Special Circumstances . Notwithstanding a
Participant s payment elections under this Article V, a Participant or Beneficiary may request an earlier distribution in the following limited circumstances (except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with respect to Company
Deferrals):      (a)  Hardship Distributions . A Participant may apply for a hardship distribution pursuant to
this Section 8(a) on such form and in such manner as the Committee shall prescribe and, subject to the last sentence of this Section 8(a) with respect to Section 16 Persons, the Committee shall have the power and discretion at any
time to approve a payment to a Participant if the Committee determines that the Participant is suffering from a serious financial emergency caused by circumstances beyond the Participant s control which would cause a hardship to the Participant
unless such payment were made. Any such hardship payment will be in a lump sum and will not exceed the lesser of (i) the amount necessary to satisfy the financial emergency (taking account of the income tax liability associated with the
distribution), or (ii) the Participant s Account Balance; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 8(a) from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company
Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of distribution with respect to such portion to such Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the
earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.   
  (b)  Withdrawal with Forfeiture . A Participant may elect on such form and in such manner as the Committee shall
prescribe at any time to withdraw ninety percent (90%) of the amount credited to the Participant s Account. If such a withdrawal is made, the remaining ten percent (10%) of the Participant s Account shall be permanently
forfeited, and the Participant will be prohibited from deferring any amount under the Deferral Plan for the Award Year in which   
         38   

the withdrawal is received (or the first Award Year in which any portion of the withdrawal is received); provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 8(b) from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, the date of
distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability
under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.      (c)  Disability . If the Committee determines that a
Participant has become permanently disabled before the Participant s entire Account Balance has been distributed, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may modify the timing of distributions from the Participant s Account, including the
commencement date and number of distributions, if it concludes that such modification is necessary to relieve the financial burdens of the Participant; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this
Section 8(c) from the portion of the Participant s Account allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16 (b) of the Exchange Act, the date of
distribution with respect to such portion to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability
under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.      9.  Acceleration upon Change in Control .   
  (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of the Deferral Plan, except as provided in Section 5 of Article III with
respect to Company Deferrals, the Account Balance of each Participant shall be distributed in a single lump sum within fifteen (15) calendar days following a  Change in Control.    
  (b) For purposes of this Deferral Plan, a Change in Control shall include and be deemed to occur upon the following
events:      (1) A tender offer or exchange offer is consummated for the ownership of securities of the Company
representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.   
  (2) The Company is merged, combined, consolidated, recapitalized or otherwise reorganized with one or more other entities
that are not Subsidiaries and, as a result of the merger, combination, consolidation, recapitalization or other reorganization, less than 75% of the outstanding voting securities of the surviving or resulting corporation shall immediately after the
event be owned in the aggregate by the stockholders of the Company (directly or indirectly), determined on the basis of record ownership as of the date of determination of holders entitled to vote on the action (or in the absence of a vote, the day
immediately prior to the event)   
         39   

(3) Any person (as this term is used in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of
the Exchange Act, but excluding any person described in and satisfying the conditions of Rule 13d-1 (b)(1) thereunder), becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the
Company representing 25% or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company.   
  (4) At any time within any period of two years after a tender offer, merger, combination, consolidation,
recapitalization, or other reorganization or a contested election, or any combination of these events, the  Incumbent Directors  shall cease to constitute at least a majority of the authorized number of members of the Board. For purposes
hereof,  Incumbent Directors  shall mean the persons who were members of the Board immediately before the first of these events and the persons who were elected or nominated as their successors or pursuant to increases in the size of the
Board by a vote of at least three-fourths of the Board members who were then Board members (or successors or additional members so elected or nominated)      (5) The stockholders of the Company approve a plan of liquidation and dissolution or the sale or transfer of substantially all of the Company s business and/or assets as an entirety to an entity that
is not a Subsidiary.      (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 9(a), if a distribution in accordance
with the provisions of Section 9(a) would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act with respect to any Section 16 Person, then the date of distribution to such Section 16 Person shall
be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.   
  (d) This Section 9 shall apply only to a Change in Control of Lockheed Martin Corporation and shall not cause
immediate payout of Deferred Compensation in any transaction involving the Company s sale, liquidation, merger, or other disposition of any subsidiary.      (e) The Committee may cancel or modify this Section 9 at any time prior to a Change in Control. In the event of a Change in Control, this Section 9 shall remain in force and effect, and shall
not be subject to cancellation or modification for a period of five years, and any defined term used in Section 9 shall not, for purposes of Section 9, be subject to cancellation or modification during the five-year period.   
         40   

10.  Deductibility of Payments . In the event that the payment of benefits in
accordance with the Participant s elections under this Article V would prevent the Company from claiming an income tax deduction with respect to any portion of the benefits paid, the Committee shall have the right to modify the timing of
distributions from the Participant s Account as necessary to maximize the Company s tax deductions. In the exercise of its discretion to adopt a modified distribution schedule, the Committee shall undertake to have distributions made at
such times and in such amounts as most closely approximate the Participant s elections, consistent with the objective of maximum deductibility for the Company. The Committee shall have no authority to reduce a Participant s Account Balance
or to pay aggregate benefits less than the Participant s Account Balance in the event that all or a portion thereof would not be deductible by the Company.      11.  Change of Law . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, if the Committee determines in good faith, based on consultation with counsel, that the Federal income tax treatment or legal
status of the Plan has or may be adversely affected by a change in the Code, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or other applicable law or by an administrative or judicial construction thereof, the Committee may direct
that the Accounts of affected Participants or of all Participants be distributed as soon as practicable after such determination is made, to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the Committee to cure or mitigate the consequences, or possible
consequences of, such change in law or interpretation thereof.      12.  Tax Withholding . To the extent required by law, the
Company shall withhold from benefit payments hereunder, or with respect to any Incentive Compensation or Long Term Incentive Award payment deferred hereunder or credit contributed by the Company under Article IV, any Federal, state, or local income
or payroll taxes required to be withheld and shall furnish the recipient and the applicable government agency or agencies with such reports, statements, or information as may be legally required.   
   ARTICLE VI    
   EXTENT OF PARTICIPANTS  RIGHTS       1.  Unfunded Status of Plan . This Deferral Plan constitutes a mere contractual promise by the Company to make payments in the future, and each Participant s rights shall be those of a general,
unsecured creditor of the Company. No Participant shall have any beneficial interest in any specific assets that the Company may hold or set aside in connection with this Deferral Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, to assist the Company in meeting
its obligations under this Deferral Plan, the Company may set aside assets in a trust described in Revenue Procedure 92-64, 1992-2 C.B. 422, and the Company may direct that its obligations under this Deferral Plan be satisfied by payments out of
such trust. The assets of any such trust will remain subject to the claims of the general creditors of the Company. It is the Company s intention that the Deferral Plan be unfunded for Federal income tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of
the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.   
         41   

2.  Nonalienability of Benefits . A Participant s rights under this Deferral Plan
shall not be assignable or transferable and any purported transfer, assignment, pledge or other encumbrance or attachment of any payments or benefits under this Deferral Plan, or any interest therein shall not be permitted or recognized, other than
the designation of, or passage of payment rights to, a Beneficiary. Notwithstanding, any portion of a Participant s benefit under this Plan may be paid to a spouse or former spouse pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order (as defined
in Code section 414(p)(1)(B)), provided that the form of payment designated in such order is one that is provided for under Section 3 of Article V of this Deferral Plan.       ARTICLE VII        AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION    
  1.  Amendment . The Board or its authorized delegate may amend, modify, suspend or discontinue this Deferral Plan at any time
subject to any shareholder approval that may be required under applicable law, provided, however, that no such amendment shall have the effect of reducing a Participant s Account Balance or postponing the time when a Participant is entitled to
receive a distribution of his Account Balance. Further, no amendment may alter the formula for crediting interest to Participants  Accounts with respect to amounts for which deferral elections have previously been made, unless the amended
formula is not less favorable to Participants than that previously in effect, or unless each affected Participant consents to such change.      2.  Termination . The Board reserves the right to terminate this Plan at any time and to pay all Participants their Account Balances in a lump sum immediately following such termination or at such
time thereafter as the Board may determine; provided, however, that if a distribution in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2 would otherwise result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Exchange
Act, the date of distribution with respect to any Section 16 Person shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability
under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.      3.  Transfer of Liability . The Board reserves the right to transfer to
another entity all of the obligations of Company with respect to a Participant under this Plan if such entity agrees pursuant to a binding written agreement to assume all of the obligations of the Company under this Plan with respect to such
Participant.       ARTICLE VIII        ADMINISTRATION       1.  The Committee . This Deferral Plan shall be
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board or such other committee of the Board as may be designated by the Board and constituted so as to permit this Deferral Plan to comply with the disinterested administration requirements of Rule
16b-3 of the Exchange Act. The members of   
         42   

the Committee shall be designated by the Board. A majority of the members of the Committee (but not fewer than two) shall constitute a quorum. The vote of a majority of a quorum or the unanimous
written consent of the Committee shall constitute action by the Committee. The Committee or its delegate shall have full authority to interpret the Plan, and interpretations of the Plan by the Committee or its delegate shall be final and binding on
all parties.      2.  Delegation and Reliance . The Committee may delegate to the officers or employees of the Company the
authority to execute and deliver those instruments and documents, to do all acts and things, and to take all other steps deemed necessary, advisable or convenient for the effective administration of this Deferral Plan in accordance with its terms
and purpose, except that the Committee may not delegate any authority the delegation of which would cause this Deferral Plan to fail to satisfy the applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3. In making any determination or in taking or not taking any
action under this Deferral Plan, the Committee may obtain and rely upon the advice of experts, including professional advisors to the Company. No member of the Committee or officer of the Company who is a Participant hereunder may participate in any
decision specifically relating to his or her individual rights or benefits under the Deferral Plan.      3.  Exculpation and
Indemnity . Neither the Company nor any member of the Board or of the Committee, nor any other person participating in any determination of any question under this Deferral Plan, or in the interpretation, administration or application thereof,
shall have any liability to any party for any action taken or not taken in good faith under this Deferral Plan or for the failure of the Deferral Plan or any Participant s rights under the Deferral Plan to achieve intended tax consequences, to
qualify for exemption or relief under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules thereunder, or to comply with any other law, compliance with which is not required on the part of the Company.   
  4.  Facility of Payment . If a minor, person declared incompetent, or person incapable of handling the disposition of his or her
property is entitled to receive a benefit, make an application, or make an election hereunder, the Committee or its delegate may direct that such benefits be paid to, or such application or election be made by, the guardian, legal representative, or
person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent, or incapable person. Any payment made, application allowed, or election implemented in accordance with this Section shall completely discharge the Company and the Committee (or its
delegate) from all liability with respect thereto.      5.  Proof of Claims . The Committee or its delegate may require proof
of the death, disability, incompetency, minority, or incapacity of any Participant or Beneficiary and of the right of a person to receive any benefit or make any application or election.   
  6.  Claim Procedures . If a claim under this Deferral Plan is denied by the Committee, the Committee or its delegate shall
communicate such denial and shall provide an opportunity to appeal such denial in a manner which the Committee deems appropriate under the circumstances, which may include following the then applicable claims procedures under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.   
         43   

ARTICLE IX        GENERAL AND MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS       1.  No Guarantee of Employment or
Award . Neither this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral nor a Participant s Deferral Agreement, either singly or collectively, shall in any way obligate the Company to continue the employment of a Participant with the Company, nor does either
this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral Agreement limit the right of the Company at any time and for any reason to terminate the Participant s employment. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral
Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications constitute an employment contract of any nature whatsoever between the Company and a Participant. In no event shall this Deferral Plan, a Company Deferral or a Deferral
Agreement, either singly or collectively, by their terms or implications in any way obligate the Company to award Incentive Compensation, grant any award under the Omnibus Plan or IPA Plan or make any Long Term Incentive Award payment to any
Eligible Employee for any Award Year, whether or not the Eligible Employee is a Participant in the Deferral Plan for that Award Year, nor in any other way limit the right of the Company to change an Eligible Employee s compensation or other
benefits.      2.  Affect on Retirement Plans . Neither Incentive Compensation nor Long Term Incentive Award payments
deferred under this Deferral Plan shall be treated as compensation for purposes of calculating the amount of a Participant s benefits or contributions under any pension, retirement, or other plan maintained by the Company, except as provided in
such other plan.      3.  Notice . Any written notice to the Company referred to herein shall be made by mailing or
delivering such notice to the Company at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, to the attention of the Vice President, Human Resources. Any written notice to a Participant shall be made by delivery to the Participant in person, through
electronic transmission, or by mailing such notice to the Participant at his or her last-known place of residence or business address.      4.  Performance of Acts . In the event it should become impossible for the Company or the Committee to perform any act required by this Deferral Plan, the Company or the Committee may perform such
other act as it in good faith determines will most nearly carry out the intent and the purpose of this Deferral Plan.      5.
 Employee Consent . By electing to become a Participant hereunder, each Eligible Employee shall be deemed conclusively to have accepted and consented to all of the terms of this Deferral Plan and all actions or decisions made by the Company,
the Board, or Committee with regard to the Deferral Plan.      6.  Terms Binding . The provisions of this Deferral Plan and
the Deferral Agreements hereunder shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors, and its assigns, and to the Participants and their heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives.   
         44   

7.  Copy of Plan . A copy of this Deferral Plan shall be available for inspection by
Participants or other persons entitled to benefits under the Deferral Plan at reasonable times at the offices of the Company.   
  8.  State Law . The validity of this Deferral Plan or any of its provisions shall be construed, administered, and governed in all
respects under and by the laws of the State of Maryland, except as to matters of Federal law. If any provisions of this instrument shall be held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining provisions hereof
shall continue to be fully effective.      9.  Regulatory Requirements . This Deferral Plan and its operation, including but
not limited to, the mechanics of deferral elections, the reallocation of all or a portion of a Participant s Account Balance, the issuance of securities, if any, or the payment of cash hereunder is subject to compliance with all applicable
Federal and state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws) and such other approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may,
in the opinion of counsel for the Company, be necessary or advisable in connection therewith.      10.  Section 16 of
Exchange Act . It is the intent of the Company that this Deferral Plan satisfy and be interpreted in a manner, that, in the case of Participants who are or may be Section 16 Persons, satisfies any applicable requirements of Rule 16b-3 of the
Exchange Act or other exemptive rules under Section 16 of the Exchange Act and will not subject Section 16 Persons to short-swing profit liability thereunder. If any provision of this Deferral Plan would otherwise frustrate or conflict
with the intent expressed in this Section 10, that provision to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid such conflict. To the extent of any remaining irreconcilable conflict with this intent, the provision
shall be deemed disregarded. Similarly, any action or election by a Section 16 Person with respect to the Deferral Plan to the extent possible shall be interpreted and deemed amended so as to avoid liability under Section 16 or, if this is
not possible, to the extent necessary to avoid liability under Section 16, shall be deemed ineffective. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Deferral Plan, the provisions of this Deferral Plan may at any time be bifurcated by the
Board or the Committee in any manner so that certain provisions of this Deferral Plan are applicable solely to Section 16 Persons. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deferral Plan to the contrary, if a distribution which would
otherwise occur is prohibited or proposed to be delayed because of the provisions of Section 16 of the Exchange Act or the provisions of the Deferral Plan designed to ensure compliance with Section 16, the Section 16 Person involved
may affirmatively elect in writing to have the distribution occur in any event; provided that the Section 16 Person shall concurrently enter into arrangements satisfactory to the Committee in its sole discretion for the satisfaction of any and
all liabilities, costs and expenses arising from this election.      11.  Securities Laws . This Deferral Plan, allocations
to and from the Company Stock Investment Option and the issuance and delivery of shares of Common Stock and/or other securities or property or the payment of cash under this Deferral Plan, are subject to compliance with all applicable Federal and
state laws, rules and regulations (including but not limited to state and Federal insider trading, registration, reporting and other securities laws and   
         45   

Federal margin requirements) and to such approvals by any listing, regulatory or governmental authority as may, in the opinion of counsel for the Company be necessary or advisable to comply with
all legal requirements. Any securities delivered under this Deferral Plan shall be subject to such restrictions (and the person acquiring such securities shall, if requested by the Company provide such evidence, assurance and representations to the
Company as to compliance with any thereof) as counsel to the Company may deem necessary or desirable to assure compliance with all applicable legal requirements.      12.  1995 Awards . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Deferral Plan, each Eligible Employee who is a Section 16 Person and has entered into a Deferral Agreement prior to the initial
distribution of a prospectus relating to this Deferral Plan shall be entitled, during a ten-business-day period following the initial distribution of that prospectus, to make an irrevocable election to (i) receive a distribution of all or any
portion of his or her Account Balance attributable to Deferred Compensation for the 1995 Award Year during the seventh month following the month of the election, or (ii) reallocate all or any part of his or her Account Balance attributable to
Deferred Compensation for the 1995 Award Year to a different investment option as of the end of the sixth month following the month of the election.      13.  Limits on Accounts . At no time shall the aggregate Account Balances of all Participants to the extent allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option exceed an amount equal to the then fair
market value of 5,000,000 shares of the Company s Common Stock, nor shall the cumulative amount of Incentive Compensation and Long Term Incentive Award payments deferred under this Deferral Plan by all Eligible Employees for all Award Years
exceed $250,000,000.      14.  Electronic Notice and Signatures . Whenever a signature notice or delivery of a document is
required or appropriate under this Deferral Plan, signature, notice or delivery may be accomplished by paper or written format or, to the extent authorized by the Committee, by electronic means. In the event the Committee authorizes electronic means
for the signature, notice or delivery of a document under this Deferral Plan, the electronic record or confirmation of that signature, notice or delivery maintained by or on behalf of the Committee shall for purposes of this Deferral Plan be treated
as if it was a written signature or notice and was delivered in the manner provided herein for a written document.       ARTICLE
X        EFFECTIVE DATE AND SHAREHOLDER APPROVAL       This Deferral Plan was adopted by the Board on July 27, 1995 and became effective upon adoption to awards of Incentive Compensation for the Company s fiscal year ending December 31, 1995
and subsequent fiscal years; provided, however, that with respect to Section 16 Persons, the availability of the Company Stock Investment Option is conditioned upon the approval of this Deferral Plan by the stockholders of Lockheed Martin
Corporation. In the event that this Deferral Plan is not approved by the stockholders, then Section 16 Persons shall not be entitled to have Deferred Compensation allocated to the Company Stock Investment Option; any prior elections by
Section 16 Persons to have allocations made to the Company   
         46   

Stock Investment Option shall retroactively be deemed ineffective, and the Account Balances of those Section 16 Persons shall be restated as if all of their Deferred Compensation had been
allocated to the Interest Option at all times. Subsequent amendments to the Deferral Plan are effective as of the date stated in the amendment or the adopting resolution.      This Deferral Plan has been amended and restated effective as of the date stated on the first page herein.   
         47   

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.39>
 3
 d221578dex1039.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.39

Exhibit 10.39 

Exhibit 10.39       RSU Domestic (nonperformance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Awardee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock
Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one
(1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as
defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.   
  This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan,
as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan,
the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term Restricted Stock
Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.   
   Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic
receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper
acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with
respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to your acceptance of this Award Agreement by May 31, 2012 and your continuous
employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). All of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as
an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF, RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability 
      Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment
requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following
the year in which such termination occurs.      In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the
Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012, whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease
without further obligation on the part of the Corporation.        2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, the Restricted Period will end for a
portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no
later than ninety (90) days after your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents associated with forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this
provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined
benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
    RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE    
  If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account of death, disability, layoff, or
retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents on the date of your termination.       DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately and you will receive shares of Stock in
exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation, and in no event later than the March 15 next
following the year in which your employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person,
corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN
CONTROL       In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control,
your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION       In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or
other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the
Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION
AND WITHHOLDING       Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock
deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   
withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation.
FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes
of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock will begin on that day.      Any cash
paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the
Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the
Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law.        In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period.
FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to
FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is
deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you
would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be
deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is
due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee
receiving Stock on account of a termination of employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market
Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.
      AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee
may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written
consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.   
   ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No
Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but
in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your
disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized
electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this
letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit A and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
    (On behalf of the Management  
  Development and Compensation  
  Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   

Acknowledged by:   

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   Exhibit A      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple    

Chief Executive Officer  
      
  6 times   
 
  President/Chief Operating Officer  
      
  5 times   
 
  Chief Financial Officer  
      
  4 times   
 
  Business Area Executive Vice Presidents  
      
  3 times   
 
  Corporate Senior Vice Presidents  
      
  2 times   
 
  Other Elected Officers  
      
  2 times   
 
  All Other Vice Presidents  
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU Int l (nonperformance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Awardee:      The Management
Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set
forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash
payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance
Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the
Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award.       If you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation may be required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of income taxes and social insurance contributions with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.
     In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account
of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   
  After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the rights and privileges associated with ownership of
the shares, including the right to vote on any matter   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   
put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the shares would thus be free of the restrictions
imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.      You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during
the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address below.   
  If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.       RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this
Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to your acceptance of this Award Agreement by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the
 Restricted Period ). All of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the
part of the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the
Restricted Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY,
LAYOFF, RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability     
  Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement if:

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following
the year in which such termination occurs.      In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the
Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012, whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease
without further obligation on the part of the Corporation.        2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, the Restricted Period will end for a
portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no
later than ninety (90) days after your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents associated with forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this
provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined
benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
    RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE    
  If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account of death, disability, layoff, or
retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents on the date of your termination.       DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately and you will receive shares of Stock in
exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation, and in no event later than the March 15 next
following the year in which your employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person,
corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN
CONTROL       In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control,
your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION       In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or
other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the
Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION
AND WITHHOLDING       The Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. You agree to make appropriate
arrangements with the Corporation for the satisfaction of all income and employment tax withholding requirements as well as social insurance contributions applicable to the RSUs,   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   
and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents, and associated Stock ( RSU Taxes ). In this regard, you authorize the Corporation to withhold all RSU Taxes legally payable by you from your wages
or other cash compensation paid to you by the Corporation or, if permissible under applicable legal requirements, from the Accrued Dividend Equivalents or proceeds from the vesting of the RSUs or the sale of the underlying Stock in an amount
sufficient to cover the RSU Taxes. You acknowledge and agree that the Corporation may refuse to deliver Stock if such withholding amounts are not delivered at the time of vesting or payment. To the extent that the amounts withheld by the Corporation
are insufficient to satisfy the RSU Taxes, you shall pay to the Corporation any additional amount of the RSU Taxes that may be required to be withheld as a result of your participation in the Plan. You acknowledge and agree that withholding
obligations may change from time to time as laws or their interpretations change, and regardless of the Corporation s actions with respect to the RSU Taxes, the ultimate liability for any and all RSU Taxes is and shall remain your
responsibility, and that the Corporation (a) makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any RSU Taxes in connection with any aspect of the grant of the RSUs, including the payment of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents, the
grant or vesting of the RSUs, and the subsequent sale of Stock acquired under the Plan; and (b) does not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the RSUs to reduce or eliminate your liability for RSU Taxes.   
  You understand that you may suffer adverse tax consequences as a result of your purchase or disposition of the Stock. You represent that
you will consult with your own tax advisors in connection with the purchase or disposition of the Stock and that you are not relying on the Corporation for any tax advice.      If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued
through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND
TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within
Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or
discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner
that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
    DATA PRIVACY CONSENT       You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Award Agreement by and among the Corporation
for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the
Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares
or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan
( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the
recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources
representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite
transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Corporation may elect to administer the settlement of any award. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and
manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein,
in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the
consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.      If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012,
this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT    
  You acknowledge and agree as follows:      (a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Committee may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any time;      (b) the grant of the RSUs are voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any RSUs, or benefits in lieu of any RSUs even if RSUs have been
granted repeatedly in the past;      (c) all determinations with respect to such future RSUs, if any, including but not limited to
the times when RSUs shall be granted or when RSUs shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;      (d) your
participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (e) the value of the RSUs are an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside
the scope of your employment contract (if any), except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in your employment contract;   
  (f) the RSUs are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to, calculating
termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits;   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   (g) the RSUs shall expire upon termination of your employment for any reason except as
may otherwise be explicitly provided in the Plan and this Award Agreement;      (h) the future value of the shares is unknown and
cannot be predicted with certainty; and      (i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the termination of
the RSUs or diminution in value of the RSUs or Stock and you irrevocably release the Corporation and your employer from any such claim that may arise.       MISCELLANEOUS       If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the
Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.      Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition,
nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits
offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you within six months from the Award Date.   
  Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to U.S. securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things,
CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate U.S. securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult
with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

RSU PECA CEO (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Awardee:      The Management
Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set
forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash
payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance
Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the
Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to satisfaction of a performance goal as well as your acceptance of this Award Agreement
by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). If any of these requirements are not satisfied, you may forfeit all or part of your RSUs.
Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.       1.  Performance Goal        At its first meeting after the Corporation
finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs awarded to you under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date
($[        ]) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare your RSU Award Value to the product of 0.10% and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2012 (with
the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number
of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($[        ]).      For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   
contributed by the Corporation during the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or
tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if
audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash
provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.       2 .   Employment Requirement        Regardless of the satisfaction of
the RSU Performance Goal, all of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of
the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF,
RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability        Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall
if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable,
but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.   
  In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012,
whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the
Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
     2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will continue to be subject to forfeiture to the extent of any Performance Shortfall certified by the Committee prior to, on or after such date; however, subject to any Performance Shortfall that may occur, the Restricted Period will end
for a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        Notwithstanding the foregoing, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal. The vested RSUs will be exchanged
for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the later of the Committee s
certification or your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with
forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this provision, the term
 retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans,
termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.         RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH
OR WITHOUT CAUSE       If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account
of death, disability, layoff, or retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and
the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of your termination.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
    DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately
(or following the Committee s determination of any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than
the later of ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which your
employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN CONTROL    
  In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control, your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control. You will vest in your entire Award (including any Accrued Dividend Equivalents) under this Award Agreement and
without regard to any forfeiture that might otherwise occur because of a Performance Shortfall.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION    
  In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing
stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you
held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING    
  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs
will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   
Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been
collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you
in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock
will begin on that day.      Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in
the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have
already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock
deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of
any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding
prescribed by law.        In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of
your Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will
also apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on
retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of
withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes
would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation
may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     
  If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of
employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is
deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9
of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding
Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This
Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the date of my termination of employment
(the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee, advisor,
director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation,
during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of
the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .   
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
    The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including
the failure to report the acts of another      

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         

person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely
affected the Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not
earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge
that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to
any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to
specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this
PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics
Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any
entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation,
spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means
products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at
any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or
business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business
area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating
unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or
operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time
during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any
enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of
Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
    This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the
Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple    

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU PECA SVPHR (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Awardee:      The Management
Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set
forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash
payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance
Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the
Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but not later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to satisfaction of a performance goal as well as your acceptance of this Award Agreement
by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). If any of these requirements are not satisfied, you may forfeit all or part of your RSUs.
Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.       1.  Performance Goal        At its first meeting after the Corporation
finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs awarded to you under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date
($[        ]) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare your RSU Award Value to the product of 0.10% and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2012 (with
the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number
of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($[        ]).      For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   
contributed by the Corporation during the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or
tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if
audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash
provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.       2 .   Employment Requirement        Regardless of the satisfaction of
the RSU Performance Goal, all of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of
the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF,
RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability        Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall
if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable,
but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.   
  In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012,
whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the
Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
     2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will continue to be subject to forfeiture to the extent of any Performance Shortfall certified by the Committee prior to, on or after such date; however, subject to any Performance Shortfall that may occur, the Restricted Period will end
for a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        Notwithstanding the foregoing, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal. The vested RSUs will be exchanged
for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the later of the Committee s
certification or your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with
forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this provision, the term
 retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans,
termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.         RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH
OR WITHOUT CAUSE       If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account
of death, disability, layoff, or retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and
the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of your termination.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
    DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately
(or following the Committee s determination of any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than
the later of ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which your
employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN CONTROL    
  In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control, your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control. You will vest in your entire Award (including any Accrued Dividend Equivalents) under this Award Agreement and
without regard to any forfeiture that might otherwise occur because of a Performance Shortfall.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION    
  In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing
stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you
held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING    
  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs
will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   
Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been
collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you
in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock
will begin on that day.      Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in
the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have
already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock
deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of
any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding
prescribed by law.      In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your
Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also
apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on
retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of
withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes
would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation
may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.   
  If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of
employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is
deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9
of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding
Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This
Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
    (On behalf of the Management Development  
  and Compensation Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Corporation, during the one-year period following the date of my termination
of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee,
advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the
detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not
earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge
that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to
any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to
specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given
to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)
 Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business
of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business
of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the
products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the
business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services
includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or
responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   
  (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without
my consent.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination
Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of
applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This
PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer  
      
  6 times   
 
  President/Chief Operating Officer  
      
  5 times   
 
  Chief Financial Officer  
      
  4 times   
 
  Business Area Executive Vice Presidents  
      
  3 times   
 
  Corporate Senior Vice Presidents  
      
  2 times   
 
  Other Elected Officers  
      
  2 times   
 
  All Other Vice Presidents  
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU PECA SVPHR (nonperformance)   
     
    Award Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Awardee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock
Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one
(1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as
defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.   
  This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan,
as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan,
the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term Restricted Stock
Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.   
   Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic
receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper
acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with
respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   
   If you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be
forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to your acceptance of this Award Agreement by May 31, 2012 and your continuous
employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). All of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as
an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF, RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability 
      Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment
requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following
the year in which such termination occurs.      In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the
Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012, whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease
without further obligation on the part of the Corporation.        2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, the Restricted Period will end for a
portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no
later than ninety (90) days after your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents associated with forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this
provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined
benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
    RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE    
  If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account of death, disability, layoff, or
retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents on the date of your termination.       DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately and you will receive shares of Stock in
exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation, and in no event later than the March 15 next
following the year in which your employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person,
corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN
CONTROL       In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control,
your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION       In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or
other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the
Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION
AND WITHHOLDING       Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock
deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs will be taxable to you as compensation income,   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   
based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you
may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described
below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of
such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock will begin on that day.   
  Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in the year paid and subject to
withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the
case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash for the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock deliverable to you in respect
of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of any Accrued Dividend
Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law.
       In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your Award will
become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also apply to any
Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on retirement-eligible
participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of withholding. For
example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes would be
withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation may
collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee
receiving Stock on account of a termination of employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market
Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.
      AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee
may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written
consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.   
   ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No
Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but
in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your
disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized
electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this
letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Corporation, during the one-year period following the date of my termination
of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee,
advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the
detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not
earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge
that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to
any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to
specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given
to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)
 Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business
of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business
of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the
products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the
business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services
includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or
responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   
  (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without
my consent.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination
Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of
applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This
PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU CA PECA CEO (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Awardee:      The Management
Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set
forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash
payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance
Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the
Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012  .  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the
Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to satisfaction of a performance goal as well as your acceptance of this Award Agreement
by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). If any of these requirements are not satisfied, you may forfeit all or part of your RSUs.
Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.       1.  Performance Goal        At its first meeting after the Corporation
finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs awarded to you under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date
($[        ]) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare your RSU Award Value to the product of 0.10% and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2012 (with
the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number
of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($[        ]).      For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   
contributed by the Corporation during the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or
tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if
audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash
provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.       2 .   Employment Requirement        Regardless of the satisfaction of
the RSU Performance Goal, all of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of
the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF,
RETIREMENT         1.   Death and Disability     
  Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or
the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable,
but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.   
  In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012,
whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the
Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
     2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will continue to be subject to forfeiture to the extent of any Performance Shortfall certified by the Committee prior to, on or after such date; however, subject to any Performance Shortfall that may occur, the Restricted Period will end
for a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        Notwithstanding the foregoing, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal. The vested RSUs will be exchanged
for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the later of the Committee s
certification or your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with
forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this provision, the term
 retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans,
termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.         RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH
OR WITHOUT CAUSE       If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account
of death, disability, layoff, or retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and
the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of your termination.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
    DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately
(or following the Committee s determination of any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than
the later of ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which your
employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN CONTROL    
  In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control, your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control. You will vest in your entire Award (including any Accrued Dividend Equivalents) under this Award Agreement and
without regard to any forfeiture that might otherwise occur because of a Performance Shortfall.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION    
  In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing
stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you
held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING    
  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs
will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   
Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been
collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you
in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock
will begin on that day.      Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in
the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have
already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock
deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of
any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding
prescribed by law.        In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of
your Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will
also apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on
retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of
withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes
would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation
may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     
  If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of
employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is
deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9
of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding
Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This
Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
    (On behalf of the Management Development and  
  Compensation Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants       (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et seq. ), I will have a continuing
obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the
Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or
allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was
responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:       

(i)  
    existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         

information, cost estimates, forecasts, financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed
business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or         

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes, or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation,
during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision does not prevent
the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.      (c)  No
disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees,
agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.      (d)
 Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution
proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could
be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation
or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the
Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and
are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions
I hold with the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   
Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably
required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of
Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined
in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following
occur:       

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   
Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the
RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the
Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law
or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the
requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and
intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to
delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Miscellaneous.       (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA
shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent
on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU CA PECA SVPHR (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Awardee:      The Management
Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set
forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash
payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance
Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the
Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to satisfaction of a performance goal as well as your acceptance of this Award Agreement
by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). If any of these requirements are not satisfied, you may forfeit all or part of your RSUs.
Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.       1.  Performance Goal        At its first meeting after the Corporation
finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs awarded to you under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date
($[        ]) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare your RSU Award Value to the product of 0.10% and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2012 (with
the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number
of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($[        ]).      For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   
contributed by the Corporation during the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or
tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if
audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash
provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.       2 .   Employment Requirement        Regardless of the satisfaction of
the RSU Performance Goal, all of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of
the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF,
RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability        Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall
if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable,
but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.   
  In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012,
whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the
Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
     2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will continue to be subject to forfeiture to the extent of any Performance Shortfall certified by the Committee prior to, on or after such date; however, subject to any Performance Shortfall that may occur, the Restricted Period will end
for a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        Notwithstanding the foregoing, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal. The vested RSUs will be exchanged
for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the later of the Committee s
certification or your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with
forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this provision, the term
 retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans,
termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.         RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH
OR WITHOUT CAUSE       If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account
of death, disability, layoff, or retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and
the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of your termination.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
    DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately
(or following the Committee s determination of any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than
the later of ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which your
employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN CONTROL    
  In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control, your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control. You will vest in your entire Award (including any Accrued Dividend Equivalents) under this Award Agreement and
without regard to any forfeiture that might otherwise occur because of a Performance Shortfall.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION    
  In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing
stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you
held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING    
  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs
will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   
Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been
collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you
in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock
will begin on that day.      Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in
the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have
already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock
deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of
any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding
prescribed by law.      In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your
Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also
apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on
retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of
withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes
would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation
may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.   
  If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of
employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is
deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9
of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding
Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This
Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
    (On behalf of the Management Development and  
  Compensation Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants       (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et seq. ), I will have a continuing
obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the
Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or
allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was
responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:       

(i)  
    existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information,

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         

cost estimates, forecasts, financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances,
and information about customers or competitors, or         

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes, or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision
does not prevent the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.   
  (c)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (d)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested,
cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to
provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA,
nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   
opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the
Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s
legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and
Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive
Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   
otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as
finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.   
  4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation
against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity
(including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the
posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties
that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion
adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Miscellaneous.       (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA
shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent
on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer  
      
  6 times   
 
  President/Chief Operating Officer  
      
  5 times   
 
  Chief Financial Officer  
      
  4 times   
 
  Business Area Executive Vice Presidents  
      
  3 times   
 
  Corporate Senior Vice Presidents  
      
  2 times   
 
  Other Elected Officers  
      
  2 times   
 
  All Other Vice Presidents  
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.      

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU CA PECA SVPHR (nonperformance)         
    Award Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Awardee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock
Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one
(1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as
defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.   
  This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan,
as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan,
the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term Restricted Stock
Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.   
   Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic
receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper
acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with
respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   
   If you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be
forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to your acceptance of this Award Agreement by May 31, 2012 and your continuous
employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). All of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as
an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF, RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability 
      Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment
requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following
the year in which such termination occurs.      In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the
Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012, whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease
without further obligation on the part of the Corporation.        2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, the Restricted Period will end for a
portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no
later than ninety (90) days after your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents associated with forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this
provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined
benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
    RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE    
  If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account of death, disability, layoff, or
retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents on the date of your termination.       DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately and you will receive shares of Stock in
exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation, and in no event later than the March 15 next
following the year in which your employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person,
corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN
CONTROL       In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control,
your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION       In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or
other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the
Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION
AND WITHHOLDING       Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock
deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs will be taxable to you as compensation income,   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   
based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you
may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described
below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of
such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock will begin on that day.   
  Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in the year paid and subject to
withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the
case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash for the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock deliverable to you in respect
of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of any Accrued Dividend
Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law.
       In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your Award will
become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also apply to any
Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on retirement-eligible
participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of withholding. For
example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes would be
withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation may
collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee
receiving Stock on account of a termination of employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market
Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.
      AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee
may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written
consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.   
   ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No
Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but
in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your
disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized
electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this
letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants       (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et seq. ), I will have a continuing
obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the
Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or
allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was
responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:       

(i)  
    existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information,

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         

cost estimates, forecasts, financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances,
and information about customers or competitors, or         

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes, or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision
does not prevent the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.   
  (c)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (d)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested,
cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to
provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA,
nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   
opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the
Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s
legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and
Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive
Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   
otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as
finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.   
  4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation
against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity
(including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the
posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties
that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion
adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Miscellaneous.       (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA
shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent
on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU PECA Attorney (performance)   
     
    Award Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Awardee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock
Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one
(1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as
defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.   
  This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan,
as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan,
the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term Restricted Stock
Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.   
   Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic
receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper
acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with
respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   
   If you do not properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be
forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to satisfaction of a performance goal as well as your acceptance of this Award Agreement
by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). If any of these requirements are not satisfied, you may forfeit all or part of your RSUs.
Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.       1.  Performance Goal        At its first meeting after the Corporation
finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs awarded to you under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date
($[        ]) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare your RSU Award Value to the product of 0.10% and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2012 (with
the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number
of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($[        ]).      For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   
contributed by the Corporation during the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or
tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if
audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash
provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.       2 .   Employment Requirement        Regardless of the satisfaction of
the RSU Performance Goal, all of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of
the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF,
RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability        Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall
if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable,
but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.   
  In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012,
whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the
Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
     2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will continue to be subject to forfeiture to the extent of any Performance Shortfall certified by the Committee prior to, on or after such date; however, subject to any Performance Shortfall that may occur, the Restricted Period will end
for a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        Notwithstanding the foregoing, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal. The vested RSUs will be exchanged
for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the later of the Committee s
certification or your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with
forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.      For purposes of this provision, the term
 retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans,
termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.       RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR
WITHOUT CAUSE       If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account of
death, disability, layoff, or retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and
the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of your termination.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
    DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately
(or following the Committee s determination of any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than
the later of ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which your
employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN CONTROL    
  In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control, your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control. You will vest in your entire Award (including any Accrued Dividend Equivalents) under this Award Agreement and
without regard to any forfeiture that might otherwise occur because of a Performance Shortfall.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION    
  In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing
stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you
held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING    
  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs
will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   
Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been
collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you
in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock
will begin on that day.      Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in
the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have
already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock
deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of
any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding
prescribed by law.      In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your
Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also
apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on
retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of
withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes
would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation
may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.   
  If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of
employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is
deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9
of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding
Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This
Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
    (On behalf of the Management  
  Development and Compensation  
  Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Post Termination Activity        (a)  Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer    I acknowledge that as counsel to Lockheed Martin Corporation (the  Corporation ), I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the
Corporation and that at least some of these obligations will continue even after the date of my termination of employment ( Termination Date ) with the Corporation. I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully with all
applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that I owe to the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not   

(i)  
  Represent any client adversely to the Corporation;         

(ii)  
  Reveal to any third party any information learned by me during the course of my employment with the Corporation except for information that is or becomes generally
known;         

(iii)  
  Encourage or solicit any present or future agents or employees of the Corporation to terminate their employment for the purpose of competing with the Corporation; or

(iv)  
  Whether as a lawyer or non-lawyer, accept a position (whether as agent, employer, part or sole owner or in any other capacity) with any person or entity whose interests
are adverse to the Corporation s interests if that adverse position is related in any way to my present or past work with the Corporation.        (b)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation
or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.      (c)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   
future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested
to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the
Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s confidential or proprietary
information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies for Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.       1. If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, to the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to
any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, that upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section 1 (and in the case of 1(a), the breach occurs prior to the second anniversary of my Termination Date);

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
    The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including
the failure to report the acts of another person of which I      

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         

had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        2. The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  3. For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and
continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock of
the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development and
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not earned
the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that
the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any
other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to
specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this
PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any
enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of
Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the
award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU PECA Attorney (nonperformance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Awardee:      The Management
Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other requirements set
forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and (ii) a cash
payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance
Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the
Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but not later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to your acceptance of this Award Agreement by May 31, 2012 and your continuous
employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). All of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as
an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF, RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability 
      Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment
requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following
the year in which such termination occurs.      In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the
Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012, whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease
without further obligation on the part of the Corporation.        2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, the Restricted Period will end for a
portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no
later than ninety (90) days after your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents associated with forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.      For purposes of this
provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined
benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
    RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH OR WITHOUT CAUSE    
  If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account of death, disability, layoff, or
retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend
Equivalents on the date of your termination.       DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately and you will receive shares of Stock in
exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation, and in no event later than the March 15 next
following the year in which your employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person,
corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled
directly or indirectly by the Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN
CONTROL       In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control,
your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION       In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or
other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the
Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION
AND WITHHOLDING       Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock
deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs will be taxable to you as compensation income,   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   
based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you
may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described
below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of
such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock will begin on that day.   
  Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in the year paid and subject to
withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have already been collected in the
case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash for the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock deliverable to you in respect
of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of any Accrued Dividend
Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding prescribed by law.
       In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of your Award will
become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will also apply to any
Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on retirement-eligible
participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of withholding. For
example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes would be
withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation may
collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee
receiving Stock on account of a termination of employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market
Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.
      AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee
may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written
consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.   
   ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No
Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but
in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your
disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized
electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this
letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       If you
are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you
within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the
securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The
Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Post Termination Activity        (a)  Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer    I acknowledge that as counsel to Lockheed Martin Corporation (the  Corporation ), I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the
Corporation and that at least some of these obligations will continue even after the date of my termination of employment ( Termination Date ) with the Corporation. I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully with all
applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that I owe to the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not   

(i)  
  Represent any client adversely to the Corporation;         

(ii)  
  Reveal to any third party any information learned by me during the course of my employment with the Corporation except for information that is or becomes generally
known;         

(iii)  
  Encourage or solicit any present or future agents or employees of the Corporation to terminate their employment for the purpose of competing with the Corporation; or

(iv)  
  Whether as a lawyer or non-lawyer, accept a position (whether as agent, employer, part or sole owner or in any other capacity) with any person or entity whose interests
are adverse to the Corporation s interests if that adverse position is related in any way to my present or past work with the Corporation.        (b)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation
or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.      (c)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested
to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the
Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s confidential or proprietary
information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies for Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.       (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, to the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to
any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, that upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section 1 (and in the case of 1(a), the breach occurs prior to the second anniversary of my Termination Date);

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
    The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including
the failure to report the acts of another person of which I      

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         

had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not
earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge
that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to
any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to
specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this
PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any
enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of
Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the
award of RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

RSU PECA RJS MD CC (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A
PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER    
   THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933    
  Dear Mr. Stevens:      The
Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ( Committee ) has awarded you Restricted Stock Units ( RSUs ). Each RSU entitles you, upon satisfaction of the continuous employment and other
requirements set forth in this letter and the Plan, to receive from Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ): (i) one (1) share of the Corporation s common stock, par value $1.00 per share, ( Stock  and
(ii) a cash payment equal to the sum of any cash dividends paid to stockholders of the Corporation during the Restricted Period (as defined below), each in accordance with the terms of this letter, the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive
Performance Award Plan ( Plan ), and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the
Award Agreement for your RSUs and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which
the Plan and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term Restricted Stock Unit or RSU as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Restricted Stock Units awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012 . Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement as described, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).       If you do not
properly acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    CONSIDERATION FOR AWARD       The consideration for the Restricted Stock Units is your continued service to the Corporation as an Employee during the Restricted Period set forth below. If you do not continue to perform services for
the Corporation as an Employee during the entire Restricted Period as set forth below under  RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE,  your Award will be forfeited in whole or in part.       RIGHTS OF OWNERSHIP, RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER       During the Restricted
Period, your RSUs will be subject to forfeiture. Until the Restricted Period ends with respect to a particular RSU and a share of Stock is delivered to you, you generally will not have the rights and privileges of a stockholder. In particular, you
will not have the right to vote your RSUs on any matter put to the stockholders of the Corporation; you may not sell, transfer, assign, pledge, use as collateral or otherwise dispose of or encumber RSUs; and you will not have the right to receive
any dividends or dividend equivalents on the RSUs or the right to receive any dividend paid to stockholders on a share of Stock.      Upon expiration or termination of the Restricted Period with respect to your RSUs, and subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth below, each RSU for which the restrictions have lapsed will be
exchanged for a certificate (either in paper or book entry form) evidencing one (1) share of Stock issued in your name (or other name(s) designated by you) and a cash payment equal to the dividends that would have been paid to you had you owned
such share from the Award Date until the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period ( Accrued Dividend Equivalents ). Your shares and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be delivered to you as soon as
practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period.      The
certificates delivered to you may contain any legend the Corporation determines is appropriate under the securities laws. At the time the Restricted Period for your RSUs terminates, the Corporation is required to collect from you the appropriate
amount of federal, state and local taxes with respect to both the shares delivered and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents. The Corporation may be required to collect FICA taxes from you prior to the termination of the Restricted
Period if you become eligible for retirement prior to the termination of that period. In this regard, please see  TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING  below.      In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on account of a termination of employment, delivery of Stock and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents may be delayed for six months from such date; similarly, if you are an Insider subject to the reporting provisions of Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, delivery of Stock following the expiration of the Restricted
Period for any reason may be delayed for six months. You will be notified if you are a specified employee for purposes of section 409A.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   After the Stock is delivered to you, you (or your designee(s)) will enjoy all of the
rights and privileges associated with ownership of the shares, including the right to vote on any matter put to stockholder vote, to receive dividends, and to encumber, sell or otherwise transfer the shares. You should note, however, that, while the
shares would thus be free of the restrictions imposed during the Restricted Period, your ability to sell or pledge the shares may be limited under the federal securities laws or corporate policy.   
  You have the right to designate a beneficiary (or beneficiaries) to receive your shares in exchange for your RSUs and cash in respect of
the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in the event of your death during the Restricted Period by completing a beneficiary designation form available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com  and returning it to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management at the address below.      If, at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at
the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your designated beneficiary predeceases you), the Stock and cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents in respect of your RSUs will be transferred to your estate.
      RESTRICTED PERIOD, FORFEITURE       The vesting of the RSUs awarded under this Award Agreement along with the Accrued Dividend Equivalents is subject to satisfaction of a performance goal as well as your acceptance of this Award Agreement
by May 31, 2012 and your continuous employment with the Corporation from the Award Date until January 30, 2015 (the  Restricted Period ). If any of these requirements are not satisfied, you may forfeit all or part of your RSUs.
Upon forfeiture, you will no longer have the right to receive Stock for forfeited RSUs or to receive cash payments for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.       1.  Performance Goal        At its first meeting after the Corporation
finalizes the financial results for the year ending December 31, 2012, the Committee will multiply the number of RSUs awarded to you under this Award Agreement by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date
($[        ]) ( RSU Award Value ). The Committee will then compare your RSU Award Value to the product of 0.20% and the Corporation s Cash Flow for the year ending December 31, 2012 (with
the product being referred to as the  RSU Performance Goal ). If your RSU Award Value exceeds your RSU Performance Goal (with the amount of that excess referred to as the  Performance Shortfall ) then you will forfeit the number
of whole RSUs that are equal to the Performance Shortfall divided by the Fair Market Value of Stock on the Award Date ($[        ]).      For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow for any period means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the period and the actual amounts   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   
contributed by the Corporation during the period; and (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or
tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if
audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash
provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.       2 .   Employment Requirement        Regardless of the satisfaction of
the RSU Performance Goal, all of your RSUs will be forfeited and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and to receive cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of
the Corporation unless you personally accept this Award Agreement as provided below by May 31, 2012 and continue to provide services to the Corporation as an Employee of the Corporation until the expiration or termination of the Restricted
Period, which will occur on January 30, 2015, subject only to the specific exceptions provided below.       DEATH, DISABILITY, LAYOFF,
RETIREMENT         1. Death and Disability        Your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement or the potential forfeiture to the extent of a Performance Shortfall
if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  The vested RSUs will be exchanged for shares of Stock, and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be paid in cash as soon as practicable,
but no later than ninety (90) days after the date of your termination of employment on account of death or total disability, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which such termination occurs.   
  In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or by May 31, 2012,
whichever comes first), you will forfeit all of your RSUs granted hereunder and all of your rights to the RSUs and to receive Stock for your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will cease without further obligation on the part of the
Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
     2. Retirement, Lay Off     
  If you retire or are laid off with an effective date before January 30, 2013, you will forfeit all of your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents in accordance with the general rule requiring continuous employment during the Restricted Period. If you retire or are laid off with an effective date on or after January 30, 2013, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend
Equivalents will continue to be subject to forfeiture to the extent of any Performance Shortfall certified by the Committee prior to, on or after such date; however, subject to any Performance Shortfall that may occur, the Restricted Period will end
for a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents and you will vest in a portion of your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as follows:       

(i)  
  you will vest in one third (1/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that one-third) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the first anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2013), but before the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014); and     

(ii)  
  you will vest in two thirds (2/3) of your RSUs (and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with that two-thirds) if your retirement or layoff is
effective on or after the second anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2014) but before the third anniversary of the Award Date (January 30, 2015).        Notwithstanding the foregoing, your RSUs will not be considered vested until such time as the Committee makes its certification with respect to the RSU Performance Goal. The vested RSUs will be exchanged
for shares of Stock, and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with the vested portion of your RSUs will be paid in cash as soon as practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the later of the Committee s
certification or your retirement or layoff, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which you retire or are laid off. You will forfeit your remaining RSUs and the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents associated with
forfeited RSUs on the effective date of your retirement or layoff.        For purposes of this provision, the term
 retirement  means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans,
termination following attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.         RESIGNATION OR TERMINATION WITH
OR WITHOUT CAUSE       If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates before January 30, 2015, other than on account
of death, disability, layoff, or retirement (or Divestiture or Change in Control as described below) whether voluntarily or by action of the Corporation and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  you will forfeit your RSUs and
the related Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of your termination.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
    DIVESTITURE       If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or
its subsidiaries and the transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the special rules in this paragraph will apply. Subject to any Performance Shortfall, your RSUs and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will vest immediately
(or following the Committee s determination of any Performance Shortfall, if later) and you will receive shares of Stock in exchange for RSUs and the cash payment for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents as soon as practicable, but no later than
the later of ninety (90) days after your termination of employment with the Corporation or the determination by the Committee of any Performance Shortfall, and in no event later than the March 15 next following the year in which your
employment terminates. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership,
joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations), is owned or controlled directly or indirectly by the
Corporation, by one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.       CHANGE IN CONTROL    
  In the event your employment is terminated by the Corporation (or its successor) following a Change in Control, your RSUs and the Accrued
Dividend Equivalents will vest and the Restricted Period shall terminate on the date of your termination following the Change in Control. You will vest in your entire Award (including any Accrued Dividend Equivalents) under this Award Agreement and
without regard to any forfeiture that might otherwise occur because of a Performance Shortfall.       CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION    
  In the event of a stock split, stock dividend or other similar action resulting in additional shares of Stock being issued to existing
stockholders during the Restricted Period or in the event of a reverse stock split resulting in a contraction in the number of shares outstanding during the Restricted Period, the number of your RSUs will be adjusted in the same manner as if you
held actual shares of Stock.       TIMING OF TAXATION AND WITHHOLDING    
  Upon the expiration or termination of the Restricted Period, the Fair Market Value of the Stock deliverable to you in respect of the RSUs
will be taxable to you as compensation income, based on the Fair Market Value of Stock on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. We will withhold federal, state, and local income taxes at the minimum rate prescribed by law.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   
Therefore, you may owe taxes relating to the RSUs in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. FICA tax withholding also will apply except to the extent FICA taxes have already been
collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below.      Your tax basis in shares of Stock delivered to you
in respect of the RSUs will be equal to the Fair Market Value of such shares on the day the Stock is deliverable to you. Your holding period for purposes of determining long-term capital gain or loss treatment on any subsequent sale of such Stock
will begin on that day.      Any cash paid to you as Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taxable to you as compensation income in
the year paid and subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes, and FICA taxes. The Corporation will withhold taxes on the Accrued Dividend Equivalents by reducing the cash payable to you, except to the extent FICA taxes have
already been collected in the case of retirement-eligible employees as described below. The Corporation may elect to apply all or part of the Accrued Dividend Equivalents to tax withholding on the Stock, in which case you may not receive any cash
for the Accrued Dividend Equivalents.      Unless you deliver cash to the Corporation to satisfy any withholding tax on Stock
deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs in accordance with procedures established in advance by the Corporation s Senior Vice President of Human Resources, you will be deemed to have automatically elected to pay any withholding tax (net of
any Accrued Dividend Equivalents applied to withholding) on Stock deliverable to you by means of the Corporation reducing the number of shares of Stock deliverable to you in respect of vested RSUs, based upon the minimum rate of withholding
prescribed by law.        In the event you are or become eligible for retirement during the Restricted Period, a portion of
your Award will become subject to FICA taxes prior to the termination of the Restricted Period. FICA taxes will be withheld with respect to the number of RSUs on which the Restricted Period would terminate if you were to retire. The FICA tax will
also apply to any Accrued Dividend Equivalents related to the portion of your RSUs subject to FICA. As an administrative practice in accordance with IRS regulations, the Corporation generally will delay application of these FICA taxes on
retirement-eligible participants until December of the year of withholding (or when the Stock is deliverable, if earlier). FICA taxes will be computed based upon the Fair Market Value of the Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents on the date of
withholding. For example, if you are eligible to retire during the Restricted Period, then you would become subject to FICA taxes on the later of the first anniversary of the Award Date or the date that you become retirement eligible, and FICA taxes
would be withheld even though Stock and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents would not be deliverable to you until the close of the Restricted Period. The Corporation will withhold such FICA tax from your regular wages or MICP payment. The Corporation
may collect the FICA withholding from you either shortly before or after the date it is due and in the case of Insiders may require delivery of a check to satisfy any shortfall in the withholding.     
  If Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving Stock on account of a termination of
employment or if you are an Insider, your Stock and the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
Accrued Dividend Equivalents may not be deliverable to you for six months following such date of termination and, accordingly, the Fair Market Value of the Stock on the date on which the Stock is
deliverable to you and the Accrued Dividend Equivalents (accrued through the date the Stock becomes deliverable to you) shall be used for purposes of determining your compensation income.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in Section 9
of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding
Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This
Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817         Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as
described, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      By executing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive
copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address
noted above.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   If you do not personally acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or
before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited as noted above.       POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements.       MISCELLANEOUS
      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the
Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.      Nothing contained in this Award
Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation
to terminate your employment at any time. Neither the value of the RSUs awarded to you nor the Accrued Dividend Equivalents will be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, no Stock will be issued to you within six months from the Award Date.      Transactions involving Stock delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in
transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions.  The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate
Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
    (On behalf of the Management Development and  
  Compensation Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (RSU Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of restricted stock units to me under the Award Agreement (the  RSUs ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation
2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the RSUs, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions   Following Termination of Employment .   
  (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the
Board of Directors of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the date of my termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or
advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,   

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the
Corporation to the detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the RSUs is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
    The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including
the failure to report the acts of another person of which I      

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         

had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs
and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, the shares of Common Stock so acquired; (ii) to the extent I have earned any of the RSUs and no longer own the shares of Common Stock
of the Corporation issued or issuable in respect of the RSUs, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development
and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not
earned the RSUs fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the RSUs.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge
that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to
any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to
specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular
provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in
the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this
PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics
Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any
entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation,
spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means
products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at
any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or
business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business
area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating
unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or
operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time
during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the RSUs to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any
enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of
Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
    This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of
RSUs under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of my RSUs.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer  
      
  6 times   
 
  President/Chief Operating Officer  
      
  5 times   
 
  Chief Financial Officer  
      
  4 times   
 
  Business Area Executive Vice Presidents  
      
  3 times   
 
  Corporate Senior Vice Presidents  
      
  2 times   
 
  Other Elected Officers  
      
  2 times   
 
  All Other Vice Presidents  
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

Stock Option Int l (nonperformance)         
    Grant Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Optionee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of
Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by
the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions
of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a
conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term  Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include
Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly
acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no
event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any
action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award.       If you do not acknowledge your
acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.        EXERCISE PRICE    
  The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $         per Option. Under certain
circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this exercise price may be subject to adjustment.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in cash, by
the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of payment to
cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.        VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE         General Rule  - An Option
is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture. Subject to certain special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation
until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for your Options is as follows:      First Vesting Date:
January 30, 2013   One-Third      Second Vesting Date: January 30, 2014   One-Third   
  Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third      If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third Vesting Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation
from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise
provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that date will be forfeited.   
  You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management informed of your current address so
that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.   
    SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION         Retirement or Layoff  - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
in accordance with the general rule set forth above under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture,  requiring continuous employment. Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised
Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.        For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement 
means retirement from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following
attainment of (i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
    Death or Disability -  Your Options will immediately vest and no longer be subject
to the continuing employment requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised expiration
date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to the Revised
Expiration Date, all unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a
transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
(in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   
   Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation, as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the
vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time
any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
     LIMITATIONS ON EXERCISE     
  Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten years after the date of
grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure compliance with
applicable laws, rules or regulations.        ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES     
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that you would
otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   
  You agree to make appropriate arrangements with the Corporation for the satisfaction of all income and employment tax withholding
requirements as well as social insurance contributions applicable to the Option exercise or the disposition of any Stock acquired upon exercise ( Option Taxes ). In this regard, you authorize the Corporation to withhold all Option Taxes
legally payable by you from your wages or other cash compensation paid to you by the Corporation or, if permissible under applicable legal requirements, from proceeds from the sale of Stock acquired upon exercise of the Option in an amount
sufficient to cover the Option Taxes.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   
You acknowledge and agree that the Corporation may refuse to honor the exercise and refuse to deliver Stock if such withholding amounts are not delivered at the time of exercise. To the extent
that the amounts withheld by the Corporation are insufficient to satisfy the Option Taxes, you shall pay to the Corporation any additional amount of the Option Taxes that may be required to be withheld as a result of your participation in the Plan.
You acknowledge and agree that withholding obligations may change from time to time as laws or their interpretations change, and regardless of the Corporation s actions with respect to the Option Taxes, the ultimate liability for any and all
Option Taxes is and shall remain your responsibility, and that the Corporation (a) makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any Option Taxes in connection with any aspect of the grant of the Option, including the grant
or exercise of the Option and the subsequent sale of Stock acquired under the Plan; and (b) does not commit to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Option to reduce or eliminate your liability for Option Taxes. You acknowledge
that you may not exercise this Option unless the tax withholding obligations of the Corporation are satisfied.      You understand
that you may suffer adverse tax consequences as a result of your purchase or disposition of the Stock. You represent that you will consult with your own tax advisors in connection with the purchase or disposition of the Stock and that you are not
relying on the Corporation for any tax advice.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS    
  As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at
any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment
of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition
of tax under Code section 409A.       DATA PRIVACY CONSENT       You hereby explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Award Agreement by and among the Corporation
for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan.      You understand that the
Corporation holds certain personal information about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any shares
or directorships held in the Corporation, details of all awards or any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan
( Data ). You understand that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration and management   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   
of the Plan, that these recipients may be located in your country or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and protections than your country. You
understand that you may request a list with the names and addresses of any potential recipients of the Data by contacting your local human resources representative. You authorize the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data,
in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing your participation in the Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker or other third party with whom the Corporation may
elect to administer the settlement of any award. You understand that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage your participation in the Plan. You understand that you may, at any time, view Data, request
additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing your local human resources representative. You
understand, however, that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan. For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your
local human resources representative.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to
acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to
this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or
by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:       

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   EMPLOYEE ACKNOWLEDGMENT    
  You acknowledge and agree as follows:      (a) the Plan is discretionary in nature and that the Committee may amend, suspend, or terminate it at any time;      (b) the grant of Options is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of any Options, or benefits in lieu of any Options even if Options have
been granted repeatedly in the past;      (c) all determinations with respect to such future Options, if any,
including but not limited to the times when Options shall be granted or when Options shall vest, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee;      (d) your participation in the Plan is voluntary;      (e) the value of
Options is an extraordinary item of compensation, which is outside the scope of your employment contract (if any), except as may otherwise be explicitly provided in your employment contract;   
  (f) the Options are not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose, including, but not limited to,
calculating termination, severance, resignation, redundancy, end of service, or similar payments, or bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits;   
  (g) the Options shall expire upon termination of your employment for any reason except as may otherwise be explicitly
provided in the Plan and this Award Agreement;      (h) the future value of the shares is unknown and cannot be
predicted with certainty; and   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   (i) no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages arises from the
termination of the Options or diminution in value of the Options or Stock and you irrevocably release the Corporation and your employer from any such claim that may arise.       MISCELLANEOUS       For the purpose of calculating the expiration date of the
Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not so listed or if the principal market on which it is
traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on
leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.   
  Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that
any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will not be taken
into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.      Transactions
involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award Agreement are subject to U.S. securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate U.S.
securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before
entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Stock Option PECA CEO (nonperformance)         
    Grant Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Optionee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of
Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by
the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions
of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a
conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term  Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include
Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly
acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no
event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any
action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership
Requirements ).        If you do not acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012,
this Award will be forfeited.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    EXERCISE PRICE       The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $         per Option. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this
exercise price may be subject to adjustment.      The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in
cash, by the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of
payment to cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.   
   VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE        General Rule  - An Option is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture. Subject to certain
special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for your Options is as follows:      First Vesting Date: January 30, 2013   One-Third      Second Vesting Date:
January 30, 2014   One-Third      Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third   
  If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third
Vesting Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that
date will be forfeited.      You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management
informed of your current address so that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.
      SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION        Retirement or Layoff  - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
in accordance with the general rule set forth above under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture,  requiring continuous employment. Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised
Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from
service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of
(i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.       Death or Disability  - Your Options will immediately
vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised expiration
date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to the Revised
Expiration Date, all unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a
transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
(in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
    Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation,
as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be
exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.       LIMITATIONS ON
EXERCISE       Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten
years after the date of grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure
compliance with applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations.       ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES    
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay withholding taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that
you would otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   Withholding will be at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes
relating to the exercise in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. If you desire, you may request that tax be withheld at greater than the minimum rate.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in
Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award
Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       For the
purpose of calculating the expiration date of the Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not
so listed or if the principal market on which it is traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.
     Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or
guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will
not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Transactions involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to
additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (Stock Option Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with a Grant Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of stock options to me under the Award Agreement (the  Options ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011
Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the Options, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the date of my termination of employment
(the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee, advisor,
director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation,
during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of
the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the Options is
expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value
of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to
and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have exercised any of the
Options and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, the shares of Common Stock so acquired upon exercise; (ii) to the extent I have exercised any of the Options and no
longer own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless
otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such
date), and (iii) to the extent I have not exercised the Options fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the Options.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given
to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)
 Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business
of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business
of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the
products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the
business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services
includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or
responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the Options to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and
assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part
following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and
me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of Options under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the Options.    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
    Exhibit B        Stock Ownership Requirements       Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

Stock Option PECA SVPHR (nonperformance)         
    Grant Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Optionee:   
  The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of
Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by
the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions
of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a
conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term  Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include
Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly
acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no
event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any
action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership
Requirements ).      If you do not acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this
Award will be forfeited.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    EXERCISE PRICE       The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $         per Option. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this
exercise price may be subject to adjustment.      The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in
cash, by the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of
payment to cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.   
   VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE        General Rule  - An Option is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture. Subject to certain
special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for your Options is as follows:      First Vesting Date: January 30, 2013   One-Third      Second Vesting Date:
January 30, 2014   One-Third      Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third   
  If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third
Vesting Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that
date will be forfeited.      You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management
informed of your current address so that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.
      SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION        Retirement or Layoff - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
in accordance with the general rule set forth above under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture,  requiring continuous employment. Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any
unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from
service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of
(i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.       Death or Disability  - Your Options will immediately
vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised expiration
date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to the Revised
Expiration Date, all unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a
transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
(in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
    Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation,
as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be
exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.       LIMITATIONS ON
EXERCISE       Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten
years after the date of grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure
compliance with applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations.       ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES    
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay withholding taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that
you would otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   Withholding will be at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes
relating to the exercise in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. If you desire, you may request that tax be withheld at greater than the minimum rate.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in
Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award
Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       For the
purpose of calculating the expiration date of the Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not
so listed or if the principal market on which it is traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.
     Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or
guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will
not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Transactions involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to
additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   
  You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement until the date on which you become the holder of
record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document will control.   

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (Stock Option Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with a Grant Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of stock options to me under the Award Agreement (the  Options ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011
Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the Options, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Corporation, during the one-year period following the date of my termination
of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee,
advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the
detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any
statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with
respect to any matter whatsoever.      (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date,
I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates
is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the Options is
expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value
of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to
and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have exercised any of the
Options and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, the shares of Common Stock so acquired upon exercise; (ii) to the extent I have exercised any of the Options and no
longer own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless
otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such
date), and (iii) to the extent I have not exercised the Options fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the Options.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   
deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in
which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given to
them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)
 Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business
of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business
of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the
products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the
business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services
includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or
responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the Options to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and
assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part
following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and
me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of Options under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the Options.    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
    Exhibit B        Stock Ownership Requirements       Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple    

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

Stock Option CA PECA CEO (nonperformance)   
   Grant Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT
HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933       Dear Optionee:      The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award
Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which
the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term  Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance
of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct
Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).      If you do not acknowledge your acceptance of this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    EXERCISE PRICE       The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $         per Option. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this
exercise price may be subject to adjustment.      The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in
cash, by the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of
payment to cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.   
   VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE        General Rule  - An Option is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture. Subject to certain
special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for your Options is as follows:      First Vesting Date: January 30, 2013   One-Third      Second Vesting Date:
January 30, 2014   One-Third      Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third   
  If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third
Vesting Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that
date will be forfeited.      You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management
informed of your current address so that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.
      SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION        Retirement or Layoff  - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
in accordance with the general rule set forth above under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture,  requiring continuous employment. Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised
Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
     For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement
from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of
(i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.          Death or Disability  - Your Options will
immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised expiration
date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to the Revised
Expiration Date, all unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a
transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
(in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
    Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation,
as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be
exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.       LIMITATIONS ON
EXERCISE       Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten
years after the date of grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure
compliance with applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations.       ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES    
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay withholding taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that
you would otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   Withholding will be at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes
relating to the exercise in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. If you desire, you may request that tax be withheld at greater than the minimum rate.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in
Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award
Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       For the
purpose of calculating the expiration date of the Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not
so listed or if the principal market on which it is traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.
     Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or
guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will
not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Transactions involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to
additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature  

Date   

Print Name  

Employee ID   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (Stock Option Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with a Grant Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of stock options to me under the Award Agreement (the  Options ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011
Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the Options, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants       (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et seq. ), I will have a continuing
obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the
Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or
allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was
responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:       

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes, or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et   seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation,
during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision does not prevent
the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.      (c)  No
disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees,
agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.      (d)
 Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution
proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could
be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation
or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the
Corporation and that the grant of the Options is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree
that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these
restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.
 Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently
am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event
any of the following occur:       

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have exercised any of the
Options and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, the shares of Common Stock so acquired upon exercise; (ii) to the extent I have exercised any of the Options and no
longer own   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   
the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth
in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by
the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not exercised the Options fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the Options.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the Options to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both
parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   
  (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without
my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by
implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies
that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me
of the award of Options under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of the Options.    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
    Exhibit B        Stock Ownership Requirements       Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

Stock Option CA PECA SVPHR (nonperformance)   
   Grant Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT
HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933       Dear Optionee:      The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award
Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which
the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term  Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance
of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct
Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).      If you do not acknowledge your acceptance of this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    EXERCISE PRICE       The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $        per Option. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this
exercise price may be subject to adjustment.      The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in
cash, by the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of
payment to cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.   
   VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE        General Rule  - An Option is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture. Subject to certain
special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for your Options is as follows:      First Vesting Date: January 30, 2013   One-Third      Second Vesting Date:
January 30, 2014   One-Third      Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third   
  If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third
Vesting Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that
date will be forfeited.      You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management
informed of your current address so that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.
      SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION        Retirement or Layoff  - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
in accordance with the general rule set forth above under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture,  requiring continuous employment. Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised
Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from
service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of
(i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.       Death or Disability  - Your Options will immediately
vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised expiration
date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to the Revised
Expiration Date, all unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a
transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
(in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
    Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation,
as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be
exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.       LIMITATIONS ON
EXERCISE       Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten
years after the date of grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure
compliance with applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations.       ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES    
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay withholding taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that
you would otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   Withholding will be at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes
relating to the exercise in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. If you desire, you may request that tax be withheld at greater than the minimum rate.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in
Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award
Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       For the
purpose of calculating the expiration date of the Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not
so listed or if the principal market on which it is traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.
     Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or
guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will
not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Transactions involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to
additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   
  You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement until the date on which you become the holder of
record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document will control.   

Sincerely,    

David Filomeo    
 
    (On behalf of the Management    
 
    Development and    
 
    Compensation Committee)    
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (Stock Option Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with a Grant Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of stock options to me under the Award Agreement (the  Options ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011
Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the Options, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants       (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et   seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et   seq. ), I will have
a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below)
of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or
disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I
was responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes, or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et   seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision
does not prevent the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.   
  (c)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (d)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested,
cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to
provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA,
nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the Options is   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   
expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be
effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and
management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the
protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional
Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a
Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means
(i) to the extent I have exercised any of the Options and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, the shares of Common Stock so acquired upon exercise; (ii) to the
extent I have exercised any of the Options and no longer own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set
forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally
reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such date), and (iii) to the extent I have not exercised the Options fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the Options.   
  4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation
against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity
(including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the
posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties
that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion
adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the Options to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA
shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
    This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of Options under the
Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of the Options.    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
    Exhibit B        Stock Ownership Requirements       Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

Stock Option PECA Attorney (nonperformance)   
   Grant Date: January 30, 2012        THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT
HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933       Dear Optionee:      The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award
Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.      This letter constitutes the Award
Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which
the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .   
  The term  Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this
Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.       Your
Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance
of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct
Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).      If you do not acknowledge your acceptance of this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    EXERCISE PRICE       The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $        per Option. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this
exercise price may be subject to adjustment.      The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in
cash, by the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of
payment to cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.   
   VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE        General Rule  - An Option is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture. Subject to certain
special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for your Options is as follows:      First Vesting Date: January 30, 2013   One-Third      Second Vesting Date:
January 30, 2014   One-Third      Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third   
  If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third Vesting
Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that
date will be forfeited.      You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management
informed of your current address so that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.
      SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION        Retirement or Layoff  - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
in accordance with the general rule set forth above under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture,  requiring continuous employment. Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised
Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
     For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement
from service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of
(i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.          Death or Disability  - Your Options will
immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment requirement if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised expiration
date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to the Revised
Expiration Date, all unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term  divestiture  shall mean a
transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests
(in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
    Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation,
as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be
exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.       LIMITATIONS ON
EXERCISE       Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten
years after the date of grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure
compliance with applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations.       ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES    
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay withholding taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that
you would otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   Withholding will be at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes
relating to the exercise in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. If you desire, you may request that tax be withheld at greater than the minimum rate.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in
Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award
Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to
January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   MISCELLANEOUS       For the
purpose of calculating the expiration date of the Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not
so listed or if the principal market on which it is traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan, you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.
     Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or
guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition, nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will
not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Transactions involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to
additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (Stock Option Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with a Grant Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of stock options to me under the Award Agreement (the  Options ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011
Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the Options, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Post Termination Activity        (a)  Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer    I acknowledge that as counsel to the Corporation, I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the Corporation and that at least some of these
obligations will continue even after the date of my termination of employment with the Corporation ( Termination Date ). I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully with all applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that
I owe to the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not   

(i)  
  Represent any client adversely to the Corporation;         

(ii)  
  Reveal to any third party any information learned by me during the course of my employment with the Corporation except for information that is or becomes generally
known;         

(iii)  
  Encourage or solicit any present or future agents or employees of the Corporation to terminate their employment for the purpose of competing with the Corporation; or

(iv)  
  Whether as a lawyer or non-lawyer, accept a position (whether as agent, employer, part or sole owner or in any other capacity) with any person or entity whose interests
are adverse to the Corporation s interests if that adverse position is related in any way to my present or past work with the Corporation.        (b)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation
or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   (c)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the Options is
expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value
of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to
and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s confidential or proprietary information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies for Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, to the
extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, that upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined
below) in the event any of the following occur:       

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section 1 (and in the case of 1(a), the breach occurs prior to the second anniversary of my Termination Date);

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have exercised any of the
Options and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, the shares of Common Stock so acquired upon exercise; (ii) to the extent I have exercised any of the Options and no
longer own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless
otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such
date), and (iii) to the extent I have not exercised the Options fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the Options.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given
to them in the Plan, as applicable.      7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the Options to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any
enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of
Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of Options
under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of the Options.    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
    Exhibit B        Stock Ownership Requirements       Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer  
      
  6 times   
 
  President/Chief Operating Officer  
      
  5 times   
 
  Chief Financial Officer  
      
  4 times   
 
  Business Area Executive Vice Presidents  
      
  3 times   
 
  Corporate Senior Vice Presidents  
      
  2 times   
 
  Other Elected Officers  
      
  2 times   
 
  All Other Vice Presidents  
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

Stock Option PECA RIS MD CC (performance)         
    Grant Date: January 30, 2012    
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER        THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
      Dear Mr. Stevens:      The Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of Lockheed Martin Corporation s Board of Directors has awarded to you options to purchase shares of Lockheed Martin
Common Stock ( Stock ) under the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ) and any rules and procedures adopted by the Committee.   
  This letter constitutes the Award Agreement for your Options and sets forth some of the terms and conditions of your Award under the
Plan, as determined by the Committee. Additional terms and conditions are contained in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. In the event of a conflict between this letter
and the Plan, the Plan document will control. The Prospectus is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com .      The term
 Options  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the nonqualified stock options awarded to you under this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
      Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by completing the
electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Assuming prompt and
proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award Date.  Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with
respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Exhibit A ( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).     
  If you do not acknowledge your acceptance of this Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, this Award will be forfeited.

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
    EXERCISE PRICE       The exercise price of the Options granted hereunder is $         per Option. Under certain circumstances set forth in the Plan and this Award Agreement, this
exercise price may be subject to adjustment.      The Committee currently allows the exercise price of an Option to be paid in
cash, by the tender of Stock or through a combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment, nor will fractional shares be issued. The Committee retains the discretion, at any time, to limit the method of
payment to cash. If you elect to pay with Stock, you must have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. If Stock is tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value on the date of tender.   
   VESTING, EXPIRATION, AND FORFEITURE        General Rule  - An Option is subject to forfeiture and may not be exercised until it has vested. In addition, an Option may not be exercised after its expiration or forfeiture.   
   Performance Goals    The Options granted pursuant to this Award Agreement are subject to satisfaction of two performance goals
as follows:      1. 50% of the Options granted under this Award Agreement will be forfeited if the Corporation does not generate
$3.8 billion in cash from operations in 2012 disregarding discretionary contributions to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans that exceed the contributions forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and any tax
payments or tax benefits associated with divestitures in computing cash from operations, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan. Cash shall be determined by the Committee based upon
the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine
Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this
paragraph; and      2. 50% of the Options granted under this Award Agreement will be forfeited if the Corporation s return on
invested capital ( ROIC ) for 2012 is not at least 14.5%. ROIC is defined as net earnings (excluding any charge or addition to net earnings resulting solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment
of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax rates) plus after-tax interest expense divided by average invested capital (stockholders  equity plus debt) after adjusting
stockholders  equity by adding back adjustments related to the Corporation s post-retirement benefit plans. In addition, if an   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   
acquisition with a purchase price in excess of $1.0 billion is completed, and the acquisition is financed in whole or in part by the issuance of new debt, the ROIC calculation for 2012 will be
adjusted as follows: (i) debt will be adjusted to exclude the amount of new debt issued; (ii) after-tax interest expense will be adjusted to exclude interest expense on the new debt issued; and (iii) net earnings will be adjusted to
exclude the net earnings from the acquired company. Stockholders  equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and shall be based on the comparable numbers reported
in the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period for which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make its determination in a manner consistent
with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and post-retirement plan amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for purposes of reporting those items on its
audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph.       Continued Employment Requirement . Subject to certain
special rules discussed below, you must remain in the employ of the Corporation until the applicable date of vesting. The vesting schedule for any Options not forfeited as of December 31, 2012 due to failure to satisfy the Performance Goals in
the section entitled  Performance Goals  is as follows:      First Vesting Date: January 30, 2013   One-Third
     Second Vesting Date: January 30, 2014   One-Third   
  Third Vesting Date: January 30, 2015   One-Third      If the number of Options granted cannot be evenly divided by three into whole shares, the fractional shares will vest on the Third Vesting Date. If you are not continuously employed by the Corporation
from the Grant Date until the date on which an Option vests, that Option is forfeited.      Vested Options, except as otherwise
provided in this letter, or in the Plan, or as may be restricted by law, may be exercised for a period ending on January 28, 2022. Options not exercised by that date will be forfeited.   
  You should make every effort to keep the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management informed of your current address so
that we may communicate with you about your Options and their current status. The Corporation cannot exercise the Options for you, and so you must pay close attention to their terms and any impending expiration.   
   SPECIAL RULES AS TO VESTING, FORFEITURE AND EXPIRATION        Retirement or Layoff  - If you retire or are laid off prior to the Third Vesting Date, you will forfeit any Options that have not vested on or prior to the effective day of your retirement or layoff
as set forth above in the  Continued Employment Requirement  paragraph under the title  Vesting, Expiration and Forfeiture.  Your vested Options will be exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised
Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   For purposes of this provision, the term  retirement  means retirement from
service under the terms of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plan in which you are a participant or, if you do not participate in one of the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans, termination following attainment of
(i) age 55 and five years of service, or (ii) age 65.       Death or Disability  - Your outstanding unvested
Options will immediately vest and no longer be subject to the continuing employment if:       

(i)  
  you die while still employed by the Corporation; or         

(ii)  
  you terminate employment as a result of becoming totally disabled as evidenced by commencement of benefits under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in
which you are enrolled (or, if you are not a participant of the Corporation s long-term disability plan, when you would have been eligible for benefits using the standards set forth in that plan).     
  Your vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term on January 28, 2022, at which time any unexercised Options will
expire and may no longer be exercised. In the event that you die and have not properly acknowledged acceptance of the Award prior to your death (or May 31, 2012, whichever is earlier), you will forfeit all of your Options granted hereunder.
      Resignation or Termination for Cause  - If you resign or your employment otherwise terminates, whether voluntarily or
by action of the Corporation, and in the latter case whether with or without  cause,  unvested Options will be forfeited upon your termination. Vested Options will expire at the end of their remaining term or 30 calendar days following
your resignation or termination, whichever is shorter.       Divestiture  - If the Corporation divests (as defined below) all
or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation or its subsidiaries and transfer of such employment to the other party to the divestiture, the
special rules in this paragraph will apply. Following a divestiture, you will continue to vest in your outstanding unvested Options as though you had remained in the employ of the Corporation. Your vested Options will be exercisable until a revised
expiration date which is the first to occur of (i) the fifth anniversary of the effective date of the divestiture; or (ii) the original expiration date ( Revised Expiration Date ). If you die following divestiture but prior to
the Revised Expiration Date, all outstanding unvested Options will immediately vest as of the date of death and be exercisable by your beneficiary until the Revised Expiration Date. For the purposes of this provision, the term
 divestiture  shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation divested to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture or other business entity of which less than 50% of the
voting stock or other equity interests (in the case of entities other than corporations) is owned or controlled directly or indirectly, by the Corporation, one or more of the Corporation s subsidiaries or by a combination thereof.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
    Change in Control    In the event of a change in control of the Corporation,
as defined in Section 7 of the Plan, the vesting date of all outstanding Options shall be accelerated so as to cause all outstanding Options to become immediately exercisable. Following a change in control, your vested Options will be
exercisable until January 28, 2022 at which time any unexercised Options will expire and may no longer be exercised.       LIMITATIONS ON
EXERCISE       Notwithstanding any other provision herein, no Option may be exercised less than six months nor more than ten
years after the date of grant. Further, from time to time, your ability to exercise Options which otherwise would be exercisable may be restricted, if in the opinion of counsel for the Corporation, this is necessary or advisable in order to ensure
compliance with applicable federal or state law, rules or regulations.       ASSIGNMENT, TRANSFERABILITY, AND BENEFICIARIES    
  Options may not be pledged, assigned or transferred except that Options may be transferred by will or by the laws of descent and
distribution or you may provide that, upon your death, the Options are to be transferred to a beneficiary or beneficiaries that you designate. To designate a beneficiary or beneficiaries, please complete the Beneficiary Designation located at
 http://www.benefitaccess.com  and return an original executed copy to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (Mail Point 123).      During your lifetime, only you may exercise your Options. In the event of your death or disability, your Options may be exercised by a properly designated beneficiary or beneficiaries or your guardian or
authorized representative, as applicable. If at your death, a completed beneficiary designation form is not on file at the office of the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management (or if your beneficiary predeceases you), your
Options may be exercised by your estate.       TAX WITHHOLDING       When you exercise an Option, the Corporation will withhold applicable taxes as required by law. The Committee currently allows you to pay the withholding taxes in cash, by tendering Stock or through a
combination of Stock and cash. No fractional shares of Stock may be tendered in payment. The Committee retains the discretion to, at any time, limit the method of payment to cash. Unlike payment of the exercise price of the Options, if you elect to
pay withholding taxes with Stock, you need not have owned the shares tendered for at least six months. Payment must be made at the time of exercise. To the extent that cash is not tendered, the Corporation will retain from the shares of Stock that
you would otherwise receive upon exercise of the Option that number of shares sufficient to satisfy the withholding obligation. If Stock is tendered or is deemed to have been tendered, it will be valued at its Fair Market Value.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   Withholding will be at the minimum rate prescribed by law. Therefore, you may owe taxes
relating to the exercise in addition to the amount withheld by the Corporation. If you desire, you may request that tax be withheld at greater than the minimum rate.       AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION OF THE PLAN OR AWARDS       As provided in
Section 9 of the Plan, subject to certain limitations contained within Section 9, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time alter or amend this Award Agreement.
Notwithstanding Section 9 of the Plan, no such amendment, suspension or discontinuance of the Plan or alteration or amendment of Award Agreements will, except with your express written consent, adversely affect your rights under this Award
Agreement. This Award Agreement shall not be amended or interpreted in a manner that is reasonably believed to result in the imposition of tax under Code section 409A.       ACCEPTANCE OF AWARD       No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge
your acceptance by completing the electronic receipt or returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012. Acceptance
of this Award Agreement must be made only by you personally or by a person acting pursuant to a power of attorney in the event of your inability to acknowledge your acceptance due to your disability or deployment in the Armed Forces (and not by your
estate, your spouse or any other person) and constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award. The Committee has authorized electronic means for the delivery and acceptance of this
Award Agreement. If you desire to accept this Award, you must acknowledge your acceptance and receipt of this Award Agreement, either electronically or by signing and returning a copy of this letter on or before May 31, 2012 as follows:

Electronic Acceptance: Go to  http://www.benefitaccess.com       

By Mail: Mr. David Filomeo, Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801
Rockledge Drive, Bethesda MD 20817      

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgment of this Award Agreement as described, this
Award will be effective as of the Award Date.      If you do not personally acknowledge acceptance of your award by executing this
Award Agreement on or before May 31, 2012, it will not be effective, you will not be able to exercise the Options and you will forfeit the Options granted hereunder.      By accepting this Award Agreement electronically, you consent to electronic delivery of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ). This consent
can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management at the address noted above.   
   POST-EMPLOYMENT COVENANTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement.       STOCK OWNERSHIP REQUIREMENTS    
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the process described above, you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements
( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements.       MISCELLANEOUS
      For the purpose of calculating the expiration date of the Options, all Options will be deemed to expire on
January 28, 2022 at the close of trading in Lockheed Martin Corporation common stock on the New York Stock Exchange (or, if the security is not so listed or if the principal market on which it is traded is not the New York Stock Exchange, such
other reporting system as shall be selected by the Committee).      If you are on leave of absence, for the purposes of the Plan,
you will be considered to still be in the employ of the Corporation unless otherwise provided in an agreement between you and the Corporation.      Nothing contained in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right of continued employment by the Corporation or guarantee that any future awards will be made to you under the Plan. In addition,
nothing in this Award Agreement limits in any way the right of the Corporation to terminate your employment at any time. The value of the Options awarded to you will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including
but not limited to pension benefits.      Transactions involving Options or Stock exchanged for Options delivered under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   
employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to additional restrictions. The Corporation
recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving Stock or Options.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   You have no rights as a stockholder to any securities covered by this Award Agreement
until the date on which you become the holder of record of such securities. Capitalized terms used, but not defined herein, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in the Plan. In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan,
the Plan document will control.        

Sincerely,   

David Filomeo   
 
  (On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee)   
 
   (For written acceptance, please complete, sign and return by mail.)   
  Acknowledged by:       

Signature   

Date    

Print Name   

Employee
ID    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (Stock Option Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with a Grant Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of stock options to me under the Award Agreement (the  Options ) pursuant to the Lockheed Martin Corporation 2011
Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the Options, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Restrictions Following Termination of Employment .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete  - Without the express written consent of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, during the two-year period
following the date of my termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in
Section 6 below), whether as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Management Development and Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or
manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any
statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with
respect to any matter whatsoever.      (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date,
I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates
is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation.
Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the Options is
expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value
of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to
and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment.    
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not
be the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have exercised any of the
Options and continue to own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, the shares of Common Stock so acquired upon exercise; (ii) to the extent I have exercised any of the Options and no
longer own the shares of Common Stock of the Corporation issued or issuable upon exercise of the Options, cash in an amount equal to the fair market value of such shares on the date of the event set forth in Section 3(a) (which, unless
otherwise determined by the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, shall be equal to the closing price of the shares of Common Stock as finally reported by the New York Stock Exchange on such
date), and (iii) to the extent I have not exercised the Options fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the Options.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given
to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)
 Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business
of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business
of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the
products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the
business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services
includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or
responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the Options to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of
Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and
assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part
following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and
me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of Options under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the Options.    

Grant Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
    Exhibit B        Stock Ownership Requirements       Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

LTIP PECA CEO (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012          

Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817      Telephone 301-897-6000   
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
       Name    
   Street        City ,
 State   Zip        
    Dear  Call_By_Name :      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the Award Agreement under such Plan and to set forth your Target Award as
well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Target Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. The Prospectus
is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012.  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 14 and Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ) .    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which have a special meaning either shall
be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you
under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to the Long Term Incentive Performance Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.       Section 1.  Target Award;
Performance Period .       1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement
shall be [Target].      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a three-year
performance period that runs from January 1, 2012, until December 31, 2014.      1.3  Payment of Award . The amount
payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance
with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your Award).
      Section 2.  Calculation of Award Payments .    
  2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,
     (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance
during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.      (b) The Committee will calculate the ROIC Performance Factor based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period in the 2012
Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.      (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance
Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted
average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow
Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2014, to
receive your Potential Award.       Section 3.  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .    
  3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the
Corporation s Average Total Stockholder Return (as defined in Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average Total Stockholder Return for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer
Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which compose the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the
performance of its common stock, par value $1.00. The Total Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant
corporation that is used in computing the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of
Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .      (a)  Calculation of Average Total Stockholder Return . During the
Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the Total Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six
(36) periods during the Performance Period where each period begins on January 1, 2012 (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2011) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance
Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures
for each corporation for the Performance Period will be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among
the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK function).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, expressed as a percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the
Corporation s Average TSR for the Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.       Section 4.  ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .
      4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s
ROIC for the Performance Period to ROIC as forecasted for the Performance Period in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and then identifying the ROIC Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following
table:       
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   
solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax
rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the highest marginal federal corporate tax rate over the three year Performance Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average of the four year-end investment balances (beginning
with December 31, 2011 year-end balance) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus (ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined at year-end as included in the
Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.      (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the
calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be
based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make
its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for
purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting
standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s
consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2012 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).   
  4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow
during the Performance Period to the projected cumulative Cash Flow of the Corporation as forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the
change from the 2012 Long Range Plan on the following table:       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means
net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit
pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business
units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan.      (b)  Cash
Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the
period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited
consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.      4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash
Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC
Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period is less than ROIC forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by 45 basis points or more and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if
the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period is less than what was forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by more than $0.7 billion.       

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Potential Award as determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the
Corporation through the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Potential Award.
     (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death,
 Divestiture ,  Disability  or  Retirement  or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your
employment involuntarily as a result of a layoff,      you shall retain a fraction of your Potential Award. The numerator of such
fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute
discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Potential Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation.
If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full
satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.      (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award
Agreement:      (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a Disability on the date you become
eligible for a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in a long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under the plan under
which you would have been covered, had you enrolled;      (2) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a
result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the
other party in the divestiture. A divestiture shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other
business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned or controlled by the Corporation; and      (3) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of Retirement if (a) you participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment
terminates on or after the date on which you satisfy the plan s age and service requirements for commencing receipt of an early retirement benefit under the plan or (b) you do not participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by
the Corporation, and your employment terminates after (i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have completed five years of service.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule: Vesting; Method of Payment . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your Potential Award under
Section 5.1, your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period,
and shall be either paid in cash to you or deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to Section 5.2(c), in the event of your death, your payment will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed beneficiary
designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.      (b)  Timing of Payment .
Subject to Section 5.2(c), you shall have the right to receive your Potential Award in cash as soon as administratively practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for
purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period, but no later than March 15 following such certification date.   
  (c)  Deferral . You will be given an opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award
Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be
subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the
beneficiary designation for this Long Term Incentive Performance Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP.      5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to the extent that such payment together with payments attributable to any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted
during 2012 as Performance Based Awards exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts in excess of $10,000,000 shall be forfeited.      5.4.
 Withholding . Any payment made in respect of your Award will be subject to income tax withholding at the minimum rate prescribed by law. You may owe taxes in addition to the amount withheld and may request that tax be withheld at a greater
rate. As required under the law, FICA tax will be collected from you or withheld from the amount of your award or from your wages, when any portion of an award becomes vested for tax purposes prior to payment.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   5.5.  Means of Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would
otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is required to be delayed by reason of Section 13, such payment shall be made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would
have been paid prior to the delay adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall
Street Journal, plus 25 basis points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing rate of the Corporation.       

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .         You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so
shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the
Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       

Section 7.   
    Plan .         This Award
Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.       

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .      
    8.1.  Change in Control During Performance Period . If during the Performance Period, a Change in Control (as defined in
Section 7 of the Plan) occurs, the Performance Period will terminate. Notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award Agreement to the contrary, a pro rata portion of your Award will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of
the Change in Control. The prorated portion will be the sum of (i) the result obtained by first multiplying your Target Award by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor calculated under Section 3.2(b), but based upon the Total
Stockholder Return for the Corporation and the Peer Performance Group as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the Change in Control, and then further multiplying that product by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days
in the Performance Period prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the Performance Period.        8.2.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1, if a payment in accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under
Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         

Section 9.   
      Amendment and Termination .         As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of
Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the amount payable is reduced solely by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of
valuation of a share of the Corporation s common stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to amend this Award
Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and of Code section 409A, including amendments regarding the timing and form
of payments hereunder.       

Section 10.   
      No Right to an Award; Value of Award .         Your status as an Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any one or more awards shall be made under the Plan to you or to Employees generally. Your status as a Participant shall not entitle
you to any additional award. The value of the Award will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Section 11.   
      No Assurance of Employment .         Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or
otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause.       
    In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.       

Section 13.   
      Compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code .      
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that this Award Agreement constitutes a
nonqualified deferred compensation   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
plan to which Code section 409A applies, payments under this Award Agreement shall be made at a time and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code section 409A and guidance of general
applicability issued thereunder, including the provisions of 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to the extent distributions to any specified employee are required to be delayed six months, and all terms shall be interpreted in accordance with Code section 409A.

Section 14.   
      Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .      
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are
not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or
above).       
    No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement, as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012, to the Vice
President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   By signing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus
applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be
withdrawn by written notice to the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary, Lockheed Martin Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      A pre-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience to return with a copy of this Award Agreement, as acknowledged by you below.   

Sincerely,   

David A. Filomeo   
 
  Vice President   
 
  Total Rewards and Performance Management   
 
   Enclosures      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:       

Signature  

Date   

Print or type name  

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR   
      
    3.2(a)   
 
    Award   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Cash Flow   
      
    4.2(a)   
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   
      
    4.2   
 
    Change of Control   
      
  Plan   
 
    Committee   
      
  1   st        
 
    Corporation   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Peer Performance Group   
      
    3.1   
 
    Performance Period   
      
    1.2   
 
    Plan   
      
  1   st        
 
    Potential Award   
      
    2.1(d)   
 
    ROIC   
      
    4.1(a)   
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   
      
    4.1   
 
    Subsidiary   
      
  Plan   
 
    Target Award   
      
  3   rd     ,   1.1   
 
    Total Stockholder Return   
      
  Plan;   3.2(a)   
 
    Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   
      
    3.1;   3.2   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete    Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the date of my termination of
employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as an employee,
advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, during the two-year
period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of the Corporation or
(ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required by
law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any
statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with
respect to any matter whatsoever.      (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the LTIP is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .   
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP, any
cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and (ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 18         
   (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics
Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any
entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation,
spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means
products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at
any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or
business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business
area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating
unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or
operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time
during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement
of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the
United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 19         
   (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and
assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part
following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and
me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 20         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title     
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple     

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

LTIP PECA SVPHR (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012          

Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817      Telephone 301-897-6000   
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
       Name    
   Street        City ,
 State   Zip        
    Dear  Call_By_Name :      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the Award Agreement under such Plan and to set forth your Target Award as
well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Target Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. The Prospectus
is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012.  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 14 and Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which have a special meaning either shall
be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you
under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to the Long Term Incentive Performance Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.       

Section 1.     
    Target Award; Performance Period .         1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be [Target].      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a three-year performance period that runs from January 1, 2012, until December 31, 2014.   
  1.3  Payment of Award . The amount payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared
to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you
receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your Award).       

Section 2.   
    Calculation of Award Payments .         2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,      (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations
which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.      (b) The Committee will calculate
the ROIC Performance Factor based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   
  (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the
Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted
average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow
Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2014, to
receive your Potential Award.       

Section 3.     
    Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .         3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the Corporation s Average Total Stockholder Return (as defined in
Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average Total Stockholder Return for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which
compose the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of its common stock, par value $1.00. The Total
Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing the Standard and
Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .
     (a)  Calculation of Average Total Stockholder Return . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the
Total Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six (36) periods during the Performance Period
where each period begins on January 1, 2012 (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2011) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open
for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will
be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer
Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK function).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, expressed as a percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the
Corporation s Average TSR for the Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.       

Section 4.     
    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .         4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to ROIC as forecasted for the Performance Period in
the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and then identifying the ROIC Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following table:   
   
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   
solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax
rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the highest marginal federal corporate tax rate over the three year Performance Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average of the four year-end investment balances (beginning
with December 31, 2011 year-end balance) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus (ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined at year-end as included in the
Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.      (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the
calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be
based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make
its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for
purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting
standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s
consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2012 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).   
  4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s
cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the projected cumulative Cash Flow of the Corporation as forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor
associated with the change from the 2012 Long Range Plan on the following table:       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means
net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit
pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business
units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan.      (b)  Cash
Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the
period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited
consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.      4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash
Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC
Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period is less than ROIC forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by 45 basis points or more and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if
the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period is less than what was forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by more than $0.7 billion.       

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Potential Award as determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the
Corporation through the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Potential Award.
     (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death,
 Divestiture ,  Disability  or  Retirement  or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your
employment involuntarily as a result of a layoff,      you shall retain a fraction of your Potential Award. The numerator of such
fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute
discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Potential Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation.
If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full
satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.      (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award
Agreement:      (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a Disability on the date you become
eligible for a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in a long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under the plan under
which you would have been covered, had you enrolled;      (2) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a
result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the
other party in the divestiture. A divestiture shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other
business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned or controlled by the Corporation; and      (3) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of Retirement if (a) you participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment
terminates on or after the date on which you satisfy the plan s age and service requirements for commencing receipt of an early retirement benefit under the plan or (b) you do not participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by
the Corporation, and your employment terminates after (i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have completed five years of service.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule: Vesting; Method of Payment . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your Potential Award under
Section 5.1, your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period,
and shall be either paid in cash to you or deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to Section 5.2(c), in the event of your death, your payment will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed beneficiary
designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.      (b)  Timing of Payment .
Subject to Section 5.2(c), you shall have the right to receive your Potential Award in cash as soon as administratively practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for
purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period, but no later than March 15 following such certification date.   
  (c)  Deferral . You will be given an opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award
Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be
subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the
beneficiary designation for this Long Term Incentive Performance Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP.      5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to the extent that such payment together with payments attributable to any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted
during 2012 as Performance Based Awards exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts in excess of $10,000,000 shall be forfeited.      5.4.
 Withholding . Any payment made in respect of your Award will be subject to income tax withholding at the minimum rate prescribed by law. You may owe taxes in addition to the amount withheld and may request that tax be withheld at a greater
rate. As required under the law, FICA tax will be collected from you or withheld from the amount of your award or from your wages, when any portion of an award becomes vested for tax purposes prior to payment.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   5.5.  Means of Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would
otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is required to be delayed by reason of Section 13, such payment shall be made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would
have been paid prior to the delay adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall
Street Journal, plus 25 basis points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing rate of the Corporation.       

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .         You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so
shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the
Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       

Section 7.   
    Plan .         This Award
Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.       

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .      
    8.1.  Change in Control During Performance Period . If during the Performance Period, a Change in Control (as defined in
Section 7 of the Plan) occurs, the Performance Period will terminate. Notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award Agreement to the contrary, a pro rata portion of your Award will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of
the Change in Control. The prorated portion will be the sum of (i) the result obtained by first multiplying your Target Award by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor calculated under Section 3.2(b), but based upon the Total
Stockholder Return for the Corporation and the Peer Performance Group as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the Change in Control, and then further multiplying that product by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days
in the Performance Period prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the Performance Period.        8.2.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1, if a payment in accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under
Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
    Section 9.   Amendment and Termination .     
  As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee
may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a
material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this
Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the amount payable is
reduced solely by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of valuation of a share of the Corporation s common stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed
and applied so as to permit the Committee to amend this Award Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and of Code
section 409A, including amendments regarding the timing and form of payments hereunder.       Section 10.    No
Right to an Award; Value of Award .       Your status as an Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any one or
more awards shall be made under the Plan to you or to Employees generally. Your status as a Participant shall not entitle you to any additional award. The value of the Award will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the
Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.       Section 11.   No Assurance of
Employment .       Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in
the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without
cause.       Section 12.   Conflict .     
  In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.   
   Section 13.   Compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code .    
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that this Award Agreement constitutes a
nonqualified deferred compensation   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
plan to which Code section 409A applies, payments under this Award Agreement shall be made at a time and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code section 409A and guidance of general
applicability issued thereunder, including the provisions of 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to the extent distributions to any specified employee are required to be delayed six months, and all terms shall be interpreted in accordance with Code section 409A.
      Section 14.   Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .    
    By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants
contained in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements.
If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice
President (or above).         Section 15.   Execution .    
  No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement, as soon as
possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012, to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   By signing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus
applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com )as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be
withdrawn by written notice to the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary, Lockheed Martin Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      A pre-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience to return with a copy of this Award Agreement, as acknowledged by you below.   

Sincerely,   

David A. Filomeo   
 
  Vice President   
 
  Total Rewards and Performance Management   
 
   Enclosures      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:       

Signature  

Date   

Print or type name  

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR   
      
    3.2(a)   
 
    Award   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Cash Flow   
      
    4.2(a)   
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   
      
    4.2   
 
    Change of Control   
      
  Plan   
 
    Committee   
      
  1   st        
 
    Corporation   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Peer Performance Group   
      
    3.1   
 
    Performance Period   
      
    1.2   
 
    Plan   
      
  1   st        
 
    Potential Award   
      
    2.1(d)   
 
    ROIC   
      
    4.1(a)   
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   
      
    4.1   
 
    Subsidiary   
      
  Plan   
 
    Target Award   
      
  3   rd     ,   1.1   
 
    Total Stockholder Return   
      
  Plan;   3.2(a)   
 
    Total Stockholder Return Performance   
      
    3.1;   3.2   
 
    Factor   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete    Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the Corporation, during the one-year period following the date of my
termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in Section 6 below), whether as
an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of the
Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the
detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required by
law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any
statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with
respect to any matter whatsoever.      (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the LTIP is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .   
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
    The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s
intentional misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by      

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         

the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and Exchange Commission;

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP, any
cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and (ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.
     5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be
enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such
deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 18         
   6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given
to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:      (a)
 Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications
Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business
of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition, divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary,
business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business
of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the
products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the
business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services
includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or
responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the Termination Date.      7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA
constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.      (b) This PECA shall be governed by
Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both
parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 19         
   (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and
assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part
following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and
me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 20         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

LTIP CA PECA CEO (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012          

Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817      Telephone 301-897-6000   
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
       Name    
   Street        City ,
 State   Zip        
    Dear  Call_By_Name :      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the Award Agreement under such Plan and to set forth your Target Award as
well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Target Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. The Prospectus
is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012.  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 14 and Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which have a special meaning either shall
be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you
under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to the Long Term Incentive Performance Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.       

Section 1.   
    Target Award; Performance Period .         1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be [Target].      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a three-year performance period that runs from January 1, 2012, until December 31, 2014.   
  1.3  Payment of Award . The amount payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared
to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you
receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your Award).       

Section 2.   
    Calculation of Award Payments .         2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,      (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations
which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.      (b) The Committee will calculate
the ROIC Performance Factor based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   
  (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the
Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted
average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow
Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2014, to
receive your Potential Award.       

Section 3.   
    Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .         3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the Corporation s Average Total Stockholder Return (as defined in
Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average Total Stockholder Return for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which
compose the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of its common stock, par value $1.00. The Total
Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing the Standard and
Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .
     (a)  Calculation of Average Total Stockholder Return . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the
Total Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six (36) periods during the Performance Period
where each period begins on January 1, 2012 (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2011) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open
for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will
be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer
Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK function).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, expressed as a percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the
Corporation s Average TSR for the Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.       

Section 4.   
    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .         4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to ROIC as forecasted for the Performance Period in
the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and then identifying the ROIC Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following table:   
   
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   
solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax
rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the highest marginal federal corporate tax rate over the three year Performance Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average of the four year-end investment balances (beginning
with December 31, 2011 year-end balance) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus (ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined at year-end as included in the
Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.     (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the
calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be
based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make
its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for
purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting
standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s
consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2012 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).   
  4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s
cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the projected cumulative Cash Flow of the Corporation as forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor
associated with the change from the 2012 Long Range Plan on the following table:       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means
net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit
pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business
units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan.      (b)  Cash
Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the
period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited
consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.      4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash Flow
Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC Performance
Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period is less than ROIC forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by 45 basis points or more and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if the
aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period is less than what was forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by more than $0.7 billion.       

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Potential Award as determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the
Corporation through the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Potential Award.
     (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death,
 Divestiture ,  Disability  or  Retirement  or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your
employment involuntarily as a result of a layoff,      you shall retain a fraction of your Potential Award. The numerator of such
fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute
discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Potential Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation.
If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full
satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.      (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award
Agreement:      (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a Disability on the date you become
eligible for a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in a long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under the plan under
which you would have been covered, had you enrolled;      (2) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a
result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the
other party in the divestiture. A divestiture shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other
business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned or controlled by the Corporation; and      (3) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of Retirement if (a) you participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment
terminates on or after the date on which you satisfy the plan s age and service requirements for commencing receipt of an early retirement benefit under the plan or (b) you do not participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by
the Corporation, and your employment terminates after (i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have completed five years of service.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule: Vesting; Method of Payment . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your Potential Award under
Section 5.1, your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period,
and shall be either paid in cash to you or deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to Section 5.2(c), in the event of your death, your payment will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed beneficiary
designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.      (b)  Timing of Payment .
Subject to Section 5.2(c), you shall have the right to receive your Potential Award in cash as soon as administratively practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for
purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period, but no later than March 15 following such certification date.   
  (c)  Deferral . You will be given an opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award
Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be
subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the
beneficiary designation for this Long Term Incentive Performance Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP.      5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to the extent that such payment together with payments attributable to any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted
during 2012 as Performance Based Awards exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts in excess of $10,000,000 shall be forfeited.      5.4.
 Withholding . Any payment made in respect of your Award will be subject to income tax withholding at the minimum rate prescribed by law. You may owe taxes in addition to the amount withheld and may request that tax be withheld at a greater
rate. As required under the law, FICA tax will be collected from you or withheld from the amount of your award or from your wages, when any portion of an award becomes vested for tax purposes prior to payment.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   5.5.  Means of Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would
otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is required to be delayed by reason of Section 13, such payment shall be made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would
have been paid prior to the delay adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall
Street Journal, plus 25 basis points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing rate of the Corporation.       

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .         You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so
shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the
Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       

Section 7.   
    Plan .         This Award
Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.       

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .      
    8.1.  Change in Control During Performance Period . If during the Performance Period, a Change in Control (as defined in
Section 7 of the Plan) occurs, the Performance Period will terminate. Notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award Agreement to the contrary, a pro rata portion of your Award will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of
the Change in Control. The prorated portion will be the sum of (i) the result obtained by first multiplying your Target Award by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor calculated under Section 3.2(b), but based upon the Total
Stockholder Return for the Corporation and the Peer Performance Group as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the Change in Control, and then further multiplying that product by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days
in the Performance Period prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the Performance Period.        8.2.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1, if a payment in accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under
Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         

Section 9.   
    Amendment and Termination .         As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of
Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the amount payable is reduced solely by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of
valuation of a share of the Corporation s common stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to amend this Award
Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and of Code section 409A, including amendments regarding the timing and form
of payments hereunder.       

Section 10.     
    No Right to an Award; Value of Award .         Your status as an Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any one or more awards shall be made under the Plan to you or to Employees generally. Your status as a Participant shall not entitle
you to any additional award. The value of the Award will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Section 11.     
    No Assurance of Employment .         Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or
otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause.       
    In the
event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.       

Section 13.     
    Compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code .         Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that this Award Agreement constitutes a nonqualified deferred compensation

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
plan to which Code section 409A applies, payments under this Award Agreement shall be made at a time and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code section 409A and guidance of general
applicability issued thereunder, including the provisions of 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to the extent distributions to any specified employee are required to be delayed six months, and all terms shall be interpreted in accordance with Code section 409A.

Section 14.     
    Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .         By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement and you acknowledge receipt
of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you
are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or above).   
   
    No
Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement, as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012, to the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance
Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   By signing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus
applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be
withdrawn by written notice to the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary, Lockheed Martin Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      A pre-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience to return with a copy of this Award Agreement, as acknowledged by you below.   

Sincerely,   

David A. Filomeo   
 
  Vice President   
 
  Total Rewards and Performance Management   
 
   Enclosures      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:       

Signature   

Date    

Print or type
name   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR   
      
    3.2(a)   
 
    Award   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Cash Flow   
      
    4.2(a)   
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   
      
    4.2   
 
    Change of Control   
      
  Plan   
 
    Committee   
      
  1   st        
 
    Corporation   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Peer Performance Group   
      
    3.1   
 
    Performance Period   
      
    1.2   
 
    Plan   
      
  1   st        
 
    Potential Award   
      
    2.1(d)   
 
    ROIC   
      
    4.1(a)   
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   
      
    4.1   
 
    Subsidiary   
      
  Plan   
 
    Target Award   
      
  3   rd     ,   1.1   
 
    Total Stockholder Return   
      
  Plan;   3.2(a)   
 
    Total Stockholder Return Performance   
      
    3.1;   3.2   
 
    Factor   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants .      (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et   seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et   seq. ), I will have
a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below)
of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or
disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I
was responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes; or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et   seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit  - Without the express written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation,
during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision does not prevent
the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.      (c)  No
disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees,
agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.      (d)
 Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations  - Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution
proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could
be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation
or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the
Corporation and that the grant of the LTIP is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   
Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value
of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to
and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .   
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon
demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:   

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP,
any cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and (ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law
may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise
available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of
actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity;
Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or
unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication
is made.      6.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall
inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 18         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple    

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

LTIP CA PECA SVPHR (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012          

Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817      Telephone 301-897-6000   
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
       Name    
   Street        City ,
 State   Zip        
    Dear  Call_By_Name :      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the Award Agreement under such Plan and to set forth your Target Award as
well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Target Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. The Prospectus
is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012.  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 14 and Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which have a special meaning either shall
be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you
under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to the Long Term Incentive Performance Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.       

Section 1.   
    Target Award; Performance Period .         1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be [Target].      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a three-year performance period that runs from January 1, 2012, until December 31, 2014.   
  1.3  Payment of Award . The amount payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared
to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you
receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your Award).       

Section 2.   
    Calculation of Award Payments .         2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,      (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations
which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.      (b) The Committee will calculate
the ROIC Performance Factor based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   
  (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the
Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted
average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow
Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2014, to
receive your Potential Award.       

Section 3.   
    Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .         3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the Corporation s Average Total Stockholder Return (as defined in
Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average Total Stockholder Return for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which
compose the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of its common stock, par value $1.00. The Total
Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing the Standard and
Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .
     (a)  Calculation of Average Total Stockholder Return . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the
Total Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six (36) periods during the Performance Period
where each period begins on January 1, 2012 (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2011) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open
for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will
be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer
Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK function).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, expressed as a percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the
Corporation s Average TSR for the Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.       

Section 4.   
    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .         4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to ROIC as forecasted for the Performance Period in
the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and then identifying the ROIC Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following table:   
   
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of
enactment of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the highest marginal federal corporate tax rate over the three year Performance
Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average of the four year-end investment balances (beginning with December 31, 2011 year-end balance) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus
(ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined at year-end as included in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.      (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined
by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial
statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and
postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will
be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2012 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance
Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).      4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow
Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the projected cumulative Cash Flow of the Corporation as forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan, and
then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the change from the 2012 Long Range Plan on the following table:       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         

(a)  
   Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate
difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by
the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the
Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan.         

(b)  
   Cash Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated
financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation
in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.     
  4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the
applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period is less than ROIC
forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by 45 basis points or more and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period is less than what was forecasted for the
Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by more than $0.7 billion.       

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Potential Award as determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the
Corporation through the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Potential Award.
     (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death,
 Divestiture ,  Disability  or  Retirement  or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your
employment involuntarily as a result of a layoff,      you shall retain a fraction of your Potential Award. The numerator of such
fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute
discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Potential Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation.
If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full
satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.      (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award
Agreement:      (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a Disability on the date you become
eligible for a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in a long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under the plan under
which you would have been covered, had you enrolled;      (2) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a
result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the
other party in the divestiture. A divestiture shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other
business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned or controlled by the Corporation; and      (3) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of Retirement if (a) you participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment
terminates on or after the date on which you satisfy the plan s age and service requirements for commencing receipt of an early retirement benefit under the plan or (b) you do not participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by
the Corporation, and your employment terminates after (i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have completed five years of service.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule: Vesting; Method of Payment . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your Potential Award under
Section 5.1, your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period,
and shall be either paid in cash to you or deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to Section 5.2(c), in the event of your death, your payment will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed beneficiary
designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.      (b)  Timing of Payment .
Subject to Section 5.2(c), you shall have the right to receive your Potential Award in cash as soon as administratively practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for
purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period, but no later than March 15 following such certification date.   
  (c)  Deferral . You will be given an opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award
Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be
subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the
beneficiary designation for this Long Term Incentive Performance Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP.      5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to the extent that such payment together with payments attributable to any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted
during 2012 as Performance Based Awards exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts in excess of $10,000,000 shall be forfeited.      5.4.
 Withholding . Any payment made in respect of your Award will be subject to income tax withholding at the minimum rate prescribed by law. You may owe taxes in addition to the amount withheld and may request that tax be withheld at a greater
rate. As required under the law, FICA tax will be collected from you or withheld from the amount of your award or from your wages, when any portion of an award becomes vested for tax purposes prior to payment.   
  5.5.  Means of Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is
required to be delayed by reason of   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   
Section 13, such payment shall be made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would have been paid prior to the delay
adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall Street Journal, plus 25 basis
points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing rate of the Corporation.       

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .         You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so
shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the
Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       

Section 7.   
    Plan .         This Award
Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.       

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .              8.1.  Change in Control During Performance Period . If during the Performance Period, a Change in Control (as defined in Section 7 of the Plan) occurs, the Performance Period will
terminate. Notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award Agreement to the contrary, a pro rata portion of your Award will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of the Change in Control. The prorated portion will be the sum of
(i) the result obtained by first multiplying your Target Award by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor calculated under Section 3.2(b), but based upon the Total Stockholder Return for the Corporation and the Peer Performance
Group as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the Change in Control, and then further multiplying that product by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period prior to the Change in Control and the
denominator of which is the total number of days in the Performance Period.        8.2.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding
Section 8.1, if a payment in accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the
earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         

Section 9.   
    Amendment and Termination .         As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of
Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the amount payable is reduced solely by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of
valuation of a share of the Corporation s common stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to amend this Award
Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and of Code section 409A, including amendments regarding the timing and form
of payments hereunder.       

Section 10.   
      No Right to an Award; Value of Award.          Your status as an Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any one or more awards shall be made under the Plan to you or to Employees generally. Your status as a Participant shall not entitle
you to any additional award. The value of the Award will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Section 11.   
      No Assurance of Employment.          Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or
otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause.       
    In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.       

Section 13.   
      Compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.       
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that this Award Agreement constitutes a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan to which Code section 409A applies, payments under this Award Agreement shall be made at a time and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code section 409A and

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
guidance of general applicability issued thereunder, including the provisions of 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to the extent distributions to any specified employee are required to be delayed six months, and
all terms shall be interpreted in accordance with Code section 409A.       

Section 14.   
      Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .      
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are
not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or
above).       
    No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement, as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012, to the Vice
President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   By signing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus
applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be
withdrawn by written notice to the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary, Lockheed Martin Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      A pre-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience to return with a copy of this Award Agreement, as acknowledged by you below.   

Sincerely,   

David A. Filomeo   
 
  Vice President   
 
    Total Rewards and Performance  
  Management    
 
   Enclosures      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:       

Signature  

Date   

Print or type name  

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR  
      
    3.2(a)   
 
  Award  
      
  3   rd        
 
  Cash Flow  
      
    4.2(a)   
 
  Cash Flow Performance Factor  
      
    4.2   
 
  Change of Control  
      
  Plan   
 
  Committee  
      
  1   st        
 
  Corporation  
      
  3   rd        
 
  Peer Performance Group  
      
    3.1   
 
  Performance Period  
      
    1.2   
 
  Plan  
      
  1   st        
 
  Potential Award  
      
    2.1(d)   
 
  ROIC  
      
    4.1(a)   
 
  ROIC Performance Factor  
      
    4.1   
 
  Subsidiary  
      
  Plan   
 
  Target Award  
      
  3   rd     ,   1.1   
 
  Total Stockholder Return  
      
  Plan; 3.2(a)   
 
  Total Stockholder Return Performance  
      
    3.1;   3.2   
 
  Factor  

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants       (a)  Protection of Proprietary Information, including Trade Secrets and Confidential Information    Except to the extent required by law, following my Termination Date, and in conformance with
the provisions of the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et   seq. ) and the California Unfair Competition Law (Cal. Business and Professional Code   17220  et   seq. ), I will have
a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined below)
of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the terms of such agreements. I will not use or
disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity, for the purpose or effect of competing unfairly with the Corporation, of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I
was responsible for creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any
proprietary or confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the
Corporation for assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the
property of the Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to
information that a person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by
third parties or if used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not
limited to:   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes; or     

(iii)  
  any information protected by the California Uniform Trade Secrets Act (Cal. Civil Code   3426,  et seq. ).     
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Senior Vice President, Human Resources of
the Corporation, during the one-year period following the Termination Date, I will not induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for any entity other than the Corporation. This provision
does not prevent the hiring of such persons so long as they are not induced to be one employed in violation of this provision.   
  (c)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (d)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably
requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or
requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision
of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   
that the grant of the LTIP is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in
Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of
the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are
reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of
Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined
in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following
occur:       

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section          

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means
(i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP, any cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and (ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.   
  4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation
against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity
(including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the
posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties
that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion
adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.   
  (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or
challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United
States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall
inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 18         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
  Annual Base Pay Multiple   

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

LTIP PECA Attorney (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012          

Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817      Telephone 301-897-6000   
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
       Name    
   Street        City ,
 State   Zip        
    Dear  Call_By_Name :      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the Award Agreement under such Plan and to set forth your Target Award as
well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Target Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. The Prospectus
is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012.  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 14 and Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which have a special meaning either shall
be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you
under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to the Long Term Incentive Performance Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.       

Section 1.   
    Target Award; Performance Period .         1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award Agreement shall be [Target].      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a three-year performance period that runs from January 1, 2012, until December 31, 2014.   
  1.3  Payment of Award . The amount payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared
to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you
receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your Award).       

Section 2.   
    Calculation of Award Payments .         2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,      (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations
which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.      (b) The Committee will calculate
the ROIC Performance Factor based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   
  (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the
Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted
average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow
Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2014, to
receive your Potential Award.       

Section 3.   
    Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .         3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the Corporation s Average Total Stockholder Return (as defined in
Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average Total Stockholder Return for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which
compose the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of its common stock, par value $1.00. The Total
Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing the Standard and
Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .
     (a)  Calculation of Average Total Stockholder Return . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the
Total Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six (36) periods during the Performance Period
where each period begins on January 1, 2012 (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2011) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open
for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will
be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer
Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK function).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, expressed as a percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the
Corporation s Average TSR for the Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.       

Section 4.   
    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance Factor .         4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to ROIC as forecasted for the Performance Period in
the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and then identifying the ROIC Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference on the following table:   
   
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   
solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax
rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the highest marginal federal corporate tax rate over the three year Performance Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average of the four year-end investment balances (beginning
with December 31, 2011 year-end balance) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus (ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined at year-end as included in the
Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.      (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the
calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be
based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make
its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for
purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting
standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s
consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2012 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).   
  4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s
cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the projected cumulative Cash Flow of the Corporation as forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor
associated with the change from the 2012 Long Range Plan on the following table:       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means
net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit
pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business
units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan.      (b)  Cash
Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the
period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited
consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.      4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash
Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC
Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period is less than ROIC forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by 45 basis points or more and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if
the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period is less than what was forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by more than $0.7 billion.       

Section 5.   
    Payment of Award .      
  5.1.  Employment Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of your Potential Award as determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the
Corporation through the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Potential Award.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   (b)  Exceptions . Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines
     (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death,  Divestiture ,  Disability 
or  Retirement  or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your employment involuntarily as a result of a layoff,
     you shall retain a fraction of your Potential Award. The numerator of such fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period
before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute discretion to make the determinations called for under this
Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Potential Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation. If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but
are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.
     (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award Agreement:   
  (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a Disability on the date you become eligible for a benefit
under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in a long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under the plan under which you would have been
covered, had you enrolled;      (2) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a result of Divestiture if
the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the other party in the
divestiture. A divestiture shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other business entity of which
less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned or controlled by the Corporation; and      (3) Your
employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of Retirement if (a) you participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment terminates on or after the date on which you satisfy the
plan s age and service requirements for commencing receipt of an early retirement benefit under the plan or (b) you do not participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment terminates after
(i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have completed five years of service.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule: Vesting; Method of Payment . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your Potential Award under
Section 5.1, your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period,
and shall be either paid in cash to you or deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to Section 5.2(c), in the event of your death, your payment will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed beneficiary
designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management.      (b)  Timing of Payment .
Subject to Section 5.2(c), you shall have the right to receive your Potential Award in cash as soon as administratively practicable, but no later than ninety (90) days after the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for
purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period, but no later than March 15 following such certification date.   
  (c)  Deferral . You will be given an opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award
Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be
subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the
beneficiary designation for this Long Term Incentive Performance Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP.      5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to the extent that such payment together with payments attributable to any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted
during 2012 as Performance Based Awards exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts in excess of $10,000,000 shall be forfeited.      5.4.
 Withholding . Any payment made in respect of your Award will be subject to income tax withholding at the minimum rate prescribed by law. You may owe taxes in addition to the amount withheld and may request that tax be withheld at a greater
rate. As required under the law, FICA tax will be collected from you or withheld from the amount of your award or from your wages, when any portion of an award becomes vested for tax purposes prior to payment.   
  5.5.  Means of Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is
required to be delayed by reason of   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   
Section 13, such payment shall be made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would have been paid prior to the delay
adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall Street Journal, plus 25 basis
points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing rate of the Corporation.       

Section 6.   
    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .         You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so
shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s general assets, and your right to payment from the
Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       

Section 7.   
    Plan .         This Award
Agreement shall be subject to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.       

Section 8.   
    Change in Control .      
    8.1.  Change in Control During Performance Period . If during the Performance Period, a Change in Control (as defined in
Section 7 of the Plan) occurs, the Performance Period will terminate. Notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award Agreement to the contrary, a pro rata portion of your Award will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of
the Change in Control. The prorated portion will be the sum of (i) the result obtained by first multiplying your Target Award by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor calculated under Section 3.2(b), but based upon the Total
Stockholder Return for the Corporation and the Peer Performance Group as of the last day of the month immediately preceding the Change in Control, and then further multiplying that product by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days
in the Performance Period prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the Performance Period.        8.2.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1, if a payment in accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under
Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         

Section 9.   
    Amendment and Termination .         As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of
Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the amount payable is reduced solely by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of
valuation of a share of the Corporation s common stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to amend this Award
Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and of Code section 409A, including amendments regarding the timing and form
of payments hereunder.       

Section 10.   
      No Right to an Award; Value of Award.          Your status as an Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any one or more awards shall be made under the Plan to you or to Employees generally. Your status as a Participant shall not entitle
you to any additional award. The value of the Award will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Section 11.   
      No Assurance of Employment.          Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or
otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause.       
    In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.       

Section 13.   
      Compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code.       
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that this Award Agreement constitutes a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan to which Code section 409A applies, payments under this Award Agreement shall be   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   
made at a time and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code section 409A and guidance of general applicability issued thereunder, including the provisions of 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to the
extent distributions to any specified employee are required to be delayed six months, and all terms shall be interpreted in accordance with Code section 409A.       

Section 14.   
      Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements.       
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements. If you are
not a Vice President (or above) on January 30, 2012, but you are promoted to Vice President (or above) prior to January 30, 2015, the Ownership Requirements shall become applicable to you on the date of your promotion to Vice President (or
above).       
    No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement, as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012, to the Vice
President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   By signing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus
applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be
withdrawn by written notice to the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary, Lockheed Martin Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      A pre-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience to return with a copy of this Award Agreement, as acknowledged by you below.   

Sincerely,   

David A. Filomeo   
 
  Vice President   
 
  Total Rewards and Performance Management   
 
   Enclosures      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:       

Signature   

Date    

Print or type name   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Average TSR   
      
    3.2(a)   
 
    Award   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Cash Flow   
      
    4.2(a)   
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   
      
    4.2   
 
    Change of Control   
      
  Plan   
 
    Committee   
      
  1   st        
 
    Corporation   
      
  3   rd        
 
    Peer Performance Group   
      
    3.1   
 
    Performance Period   
      
    1.2   
 
    Plan   
      
  1   st        
 
    Potential Award   
      
    2.1(d)   
 
    ROIC   
      
    4.1(a)   
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   
      
    4.1   
 
    Subsidiary   
      
  Plan   
 
    Target Award   
      
  3   rd     ,   1.1   
 
    Total Stockholder Return   
      
  Plan;   3.2(a)   
 
    Total Stockholder Return Performance   
      
    3.1;   3.2   
 
    Factor   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Post Termination Activity .      (a)  Post-employment Activity As a Lawyer    I acknowledge that as counsel to Lockheed Martin Corporation (the  Corporation ), I owe ethical and fiduciary obligations to the
Corporation and that at least some of these obligations will continue even after the date of my termination of employment ( Termination Date ) with the Corporation. I agree that after my Termination Date I will comply fully with all
applicable ethical and fiduciary obligations that I owe to the Corporation. To the extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, I agree that I will not   

(i)  
  Represent any client adversely to the Corporation;         

(ii)  
  Reveal to any third party any information learned by me during the course of my employment with the Corporation except for information that is or becomes generally
known;         

(iii)  
  Encourage or solicit any present or future agents or employees of the Corporation to terminate their employment for the purpose of competing with the Corporation; or

(iv)  
  Whether as a lawyer or non-lawyer, accept a position (whether as agent, employer, part or sole owner or in any other capacity) with any person or entity whose interests
are adverse to the Corporation s interests if that adverse position is related in any way to my present or past work with the Corporation.        (b)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation
or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   (c)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination
Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or
affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or
investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA, nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.   
  2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made
available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the LTIP is expressly
made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the
benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and
extensive knowledge of the Corporation s confidential or proprietary information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.
     3.  Remedies for Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .   
  (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, to the
extent permitted by applicable law, including but not limited to any applicable rules governing attorney conduct, that upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined
below) in the event any of the following occur:       

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section 1 (and in the case of 1(a), the breach occurs prior to the second anniversary of my Termination Date);

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP,
any cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and (ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.   
  4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation
against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity
(including but not limited to, an action under Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the
posting of any bond or similar security.      5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties
that the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion
adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.   
  6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable.   
  7.  Miscellaneous .      (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions
governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and
venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.   
  (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise,
affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from
time to time or applicable law or regulation.       This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP
under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 18         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title   
      
    Annual Base Pay Multiple    

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

LTIP PECA RJS (performance)       Award Date: January 30, 2012          

Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817      Telephone 301-897-6000   
   THIS DOCUMENT CONSTITUTES PART OF A PROSPECTUS COVERING        SECURITIES THAT HAVE BEEN REGISTERED UNDER THE        SECURITIES ACT OF 1933
       Name    
   Street        City ,
 State   Zip        
    Dear  Call_By_Name :      On behalf of the Management Development and Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) of the Board of Directors of Lockheed Martin Corporation, I am pleased to tell you that you have been granted
a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award under the Corporation s 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). The purpose of this letter is to serve as the Award Agreement under such Plan and to set forth your Target Award as
well as the terms and conditions to the payment of your Target Award. Additional terms and conditions are set forth in the Plan and in the Prospectus relating to the Plan of which the Plan document and this Award Agreement are a part. The Prospectus
is available at  http://www.benefitaccess.com . You should retain the Prospectus and the attached copy of the Plan in your records.       Your Award is not effective or enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance of the Award by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement to the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management as instructed below as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012.  Assuming prompt and proper acknowledgement of your acceptance of this Award Agreement, this Award will be effective as of the Award
Date. Acceptance of this Award Agreement constitutes your consent to any action taken under the Plan consistent with its terms with respect to this Award and your agreement to be bound by the restrictions contained in Section 14 and Exhibit A
( Post-Employment Conduct Agreement ) and Exhibit B ( Stock Ownership Requirements ).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 2         
   Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which have a special meaning either shall
be defined in this Award Agreement or if not defined in this Award Agreement shall have the meaning ascribed to the term in the Plan. The term  Target Award  as used in this Award Agreement refers only to the Target Award awarded to you
under this Award Agreement and the term  Award  refers only to the Long Term Incentive Performance Award set forth in this Award Agreement. References to the  Corporation  include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries.
Appendix A contains an index of all capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement.       Section 1.    Target
Award; Performance Period .       1.1  Target Award . Your Target Award for the Performance Period under this Award
Agreement shall be [Target].      1.2  Performance Period . The Performance Period under this Award Agreement is a three-year
performance period that runs from January 1, 2012, until December 31, 2014.      1.3  Payment of Award . The amount
payable to you under your Award is dependent upon the Corporation s performance as compared to the metrics described in Section 3 and Section 4 of this Award Agreement and your continued employment with the Corporation in accordance
with Section 5 of this Award Agreement. As a result of these requirements, any payments you receive may be larger or smaller than your Target Award ( e.g ., the performance factors could result in no payment in respect of your Award).
      Section 2.    Calculation of Award Payments .    
  2.1  End of Performance Period Calculation . Following the end of the Performance Period and prior to any payments being made,
     (a) The Committee will calculate the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor based on the Corporation s performance
during the Performance Period relative to the performance of other corporations which compose the  Peer Performance Group  as defined in Section 3.1 below.      (b) The Committee will calculate the ROIC Performance Factor based on the Corporation s ROIC during the Performance Period as compared to the projected ROIC for the Performance Period in the 2012
Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.      (c) The Committee will calculate the Cash Flow Performance
Factor based on the Corporation s cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period as compared to the projected cumulative Cash Flow in the 2012 Long Range Plan as presented at the February 2012 Board meeting.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 3         
   (d) Your  Potential Award  shall be calculated by multiplying the weighted
average of the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow Performance Factor by your Target Award. The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor, the ROIC Performance Factor, and the Cash Flow
Performance Factor shall be weighted as follows in determining the weighted average of the three performance factors:       

Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor   

50  
  %    
 
    ROIC Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
 
    Cash Flow Performance Factor   

25  
  %    
    You must (except as specified in Section 5) remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2014, to
receive your Potential Award.       

Section 3.   
      Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .         3.1.  Peer Performance Group . The Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor will be based upon the relative ranking of the Corporation s Average Total Stockholder Return (as defined in
Section 3.2(a)) for the Performance Period to the Average Total Stockholder Return for such Period for each corporation in the  Peer Performance Group.  The  Peer Performance Group  shall consist of the corporations which
compose the Standard and Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index reported under symbol S5AERO by Bloomberg L.P. The Corporation s Total Stockholder Return will be based on the performance of its common stock, par value $1.00. The Total
Stockholder Return of each corporation that is taken into account in computing the Peer Performance Group Total Stockholder Return will be based on the equity security of the relevant corporation that is used in computing the Standard and
Poor s 500 Aerospace and Defense Index.      3.2.  Calculation of Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor .
     (a)  Calculation of Average Total Stockholder Return . During the Performance Period, the Committee shall compute the
Total Stockholder Return (as defined in the Plan and assuming the reinvestment of any cash dividends) for the Corporation and for each other corporation in the Peer Performance Group for thirty-six (36) periods during the Performance Period
where each period begins on January 1, 2012 (based on the closing price for the stock on December 31, 2011) and ends on the last day of each successive calendar month in the Performance Period on which the New York Stock Exchange is open
for trading. Each such Total Stockholder Return shall be computed from data available to the public. At the end of the Performance Period, the thirty-six (36) Total Stockholder Return figures for each corporation for the Performance Period will
be averaged to determine each corporation s average Total Stockholder Return ( Average TSR ) for the Performance Period. Each corporation s Average TSR shall be ranked among the Average TSR for each other corporation in the Peer
Performance Group on a percentile basis (using the Excel PERCENTRANK function).   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 4         
   (b)  Percentage Level of Target Award . Your Total Stockholder Return Performance
Factor, expressed as a percentage, will be determined under this Section 3.2(b) (and Section 3.2(c) to the extent interpolation is necessary) based on the Percentile Ranking (as determined under Section 3.2(a)) of the
Corporation s Average TSR for the Performance Period under the following chart:       
    (c)  Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor Interpolation . If the Percentile Ranking as
determined under Section 3.2(a) puts the Corporation over the listed Percentile Ranking for the applicable Band (other than Band One) in Section 3.2(b), your Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor under Section 3.2(b) shall be
interpolated on a linear basis.       Section 4.    ROIC Performance Factor and Cash Flow Performance
Factor .       4.1  ROIC Performance Factor . The ROIC Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the
Corporation s ROIC for the Performance Period to ROIC as forecasted for the Performance Period in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan and then identifying the ROIC Performance Factor based upon the factor associated with the difference
on the following table:       
    (a)  ROIC Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement,  ROIC  means return on
invested capital for the Performance Period calculated as (A) average annual (i) net income (excluding any charge or addition to net income resulting   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 5         
   
solely from adjustment of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the effect of enactment of corporate tax reform and related legislation that adjusts United States federal corporate income tax
rates) plus (ii) interest expense times one minus the highest marginal federal corporate tax rate over the three year Performance Period ( Return ), divided by (B) the average of the four year-end investment balances (beginning
with December 31, 2011 year-end balance) consisting of (i) debt (including current maturities of long-term debt) plus (ii) stockholders  equity plus the postretirement plans amounts determined at year-end as included in the
Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity.      (b)  ROIC Determination . Each component of ROIC and the
calculation of any postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and be
based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the date or period on which ROIC is being determined, the Committee shall make
its determination in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining the components of ROIC and postretirement plans amounts recorded in the Corporation s Statement of Stockholders  Equity for
purposes of reporting those items on its audited financial statements, as modified by this paragraph. Notwithstanding the foregoing, ROIC will be adjusted to exclude the impact of any change in accounting standards or adoption of any new accounting
standards that is required under generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and that is reported in the Corporation s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission as having a material effect on the Corporation s
consolidated financial statements. ROIC, as included in the 2012 Long Range Plan, and the change in ROIC for purposes of the ROIC Performance Factor will be determined in accordance with this Section 4.1(b).   
  4.2  Cash Flow Performance Factor . The Cash Flow Performance Factor will be determined by comparing the Corporation s
cumulative Cash Flow during the Performance Period to the projected cumulative Cash Flow of the Corporation as forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan, and then identifying the Cash Flow Performance Factor based upon the factor
associated with the change from the 2012 Long Range Plan on the following table:       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 6         
   (a)  Cash Flow Definition . For purposes of this Award Agreement, Cash Flow means
net cash flow from operations but not taking into account: (i) the aggregate difference between the amount forecasted in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan to be contributed by the Corporation to the Corporation s defined benefit
pension plans during the Performance Period and the actual amounts contributed by the Corporation during the Performance Period; or (ii) any tax payments or tax benefits during the Performance Period associated with the divestiture of business
units, other than tax payments or tax benefits that were included in the Corporation s 2012 Long Range Plan.      (b)  Cash
Flow Determination . Cash Flow shall be determined by the Committee based upon the comparable numbers reported on the Corporation s audited consolidated financial statements or, if audited financial statements are not available for the
period for which Cash Flow is being determined, the Committee shall determine Cash Flow in a manner consistent with the historical practices used by the Corporation in determining net cash provided by operating activities as reported in its audited
consolidated statement of cash flows, in either case as modified by this paragraph.      4.3  Interpolation of ROIC and Cash
Flow Metrics . If the change in ROIC or Cash Flow falls between two numbers listed in the applicable table in Section 4.1 or 4.2, the appropriate factor will be interpolated on a linear basis. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the ROIC
Performance Factor will always be zero if the ROIC for the Performance Period is less than ROIC forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by 45 basis points or more and the Cash Flow Performance Factor will always be zero if
the aggregate Cash Flow for the Performance Period is less than what was forecasted for the Performance Period in the 2012 Long Range Plan by more than $0.7 billion.       Section 5.  Payment of Award .       5.1.  Employment
Requirement .      (a)  General Rule . In order to be eligible to receive payment of any portion of your Potential Award as
determined under Section 2.1(d), you must accept this Award Agreement and remain employed by the Corporation through the last day of the Performance Period. Except as provided below, if your employment as an Employee terminates during the
Performance Period, you shall forfeit your right to receive all or any part of your Potential Award.      (b)  Exceptions .
Notwithstanding Section 5.1(a), if the Committee determines   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 7         
   (1) that your employment as an Employee terminated as a result of your death,
 Divestiture ,  Disability  or  Retirement  or      (2) that the Corporation terminated your
employment involuntarily as a result of a layoff,      you shall retain a fraction of your Potential Award. The numerator of such
fraction shall equal the number of days in the Performance Period before your employment as an Employee terminated, and the denominator shall equal the total number of days in the Performance Period. The Committee shall have complete and absolute
discretion to make the determinations called for under this Section 5.1(b), and all such determinations shall be binding on you and on any person who claims all or any part of your Potential Award on your behalf as well as on the Corporation.
If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under this Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full
satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement.      (c)  Special Definitions . For purposes of this Award
Agreement:      (1) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of a Disability on the date you become
eligible for a benefit under the Corporation s long-term disability plan in which you participate, or if you are not enrolled in a long-term disability plan, the date on which long-term disability benefits would commence under the plan under
which you would have been covered, had you enrolled;      (2) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating as a
result of Divestiture if the Corporation divests all or substantially all of a business operation of the Corporation and such divestiture results in the termination of your employment with the Corporation and a transfer of such employment to the
other party in the divestiture. A divestiture shall mean a transaction which results in the transfer of control of the business operation to any person, corporation, association, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company or other
business entity of which less than 50% of the voting stock or other equity interests are owned or controlled by the Corporation; and      (3) Your employment as an Employee shall be treated as terminating because of Retirement if (a) you participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by the Corporation, and your employment
terminates on or after the date on which you satisfy the plan s age and service requirements for commencing receipt of an early retirement benefit under the plan or (b) you do not participate in a defined benefit pension plan maintained by
the Corporation, and your employment terminates after (i) you reach age 65, or (ii) you reach age 55 and have completed five years of service.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 8         
   5.2.  Payment Rules .   
  (a)  General Rule: Vesting; Method of Payment; Timing of Payment .   
  (1)  Immediate Portion . If you are eligible to receive all, or a portion of, your Potential Award under Section 5.1, up to
$10,000,000 dollars of your Potential Award shall be fully vested on the date on which the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance
Period. This portion of your award shall be known as the  Immediate Portion  of your Potential Award. The Immediate Portion of your Potential Award shall be (i) paid to you in cash as soon as administratively practicable, but no later
than ninety (90) days after the certification date described above, but no later than March 15 following such certification date, or (ii) deferred in accordance with Section 5.2(c). Subject to your deferral election under
Section 5.2(c), in the event of your death, the Immediate Portion of your Potential Award will be made to your estate if you do not have a properly completed beneficiary designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and
Performance Management.      (2)  Deferred Portion . If your Potential Award exceeds $10,000,000 dollars, the amount in excess
of $10,000,000 dollars shall be automatically deferred through December 31, 2015. This portion of your award shall be known as the  Deferred Portion  of your Potential Award. Except as provided in Section 5.2(b)(2), you shall
forfeit your right to the payment of the Deferred Portion of your Potential Award if you do not remain employed by the Corporation through December 31, 2015. The Committee shall establish a bookkeeping account (a  Phantom Stock
Account ) on your behalf under this Section 5.2(a)(2) and shall credit such account as described in Section 5.2(a)(3) below. Unless you forfeit your right to the Deferred Portion of your Potential Award, you shall receive payment of
the value of your Phantom Stock Account in cash as determined as of December 31, 2015, no later than March 15, 2016 (subject to section 5.2(c)). The amount payable under from your Phantom Stock Account shall be determined by multiplying
the number of units representing shares of phantom stock credited to your account under Section 5.2(a)(3) by the closing price for a share of the Corporation s common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for December 31,
2015, or, if it is not a trading day, on the last trading day before December 31, 2015.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 9         
   (3)  Phantom Stock Account . Your Phantom Stock Account shall be credited with a
number of units equal to the number of whole shares (and any fractional share) of the Corporation s common stock which could have been purchased by the Deferred Portion of your Potential Award based on the closing price for a share of the
Corporation s common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for the last trading day of the Performance Period, subject to the Committee s certification in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your
Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period. Thereafter, the Committee shall make such credits or debits to the units previously credited to such account as the Committee deems appropriate in light of any transaction
described in Section 7(a) of the Plan (such as a stock split or stock dividend) or any cash dividends paid on the Corporation s common stock, which dividends shall increase the number of units credited to such account as if such dividends
had been reinvested in the Corporation s common stock at the closing price of a share of the Corporation s common stock as reported on The New York Stock Exchange for the last trading day of the quarter in which such dividend is declared
by the Board of Directors. Units credited to your Phantom Stock Account are bookkeeping entries only and do not entitle you to any shares of the Corporation s common stock or to any voting or other rights associated with shares of such stock.
     (4) Transactions involving the Deferred Portion of your Potential Award and your Phantom Stock Account under this Award
Agreement are subject to the securities laws and CPS 722. Among other things, CPS 722 prohibits employees of the Corporation from engaging in transactions that violate securities laws or involve hedging or pledging stock. Insiders are subject to
additional restrictions. The Corporation recommends that Insiders consult with the Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary or her staff before entering into any transactions involving the Deferred Portion of your Potential
Award or your Phantom Stock Account.      (b)  Special Rules for Certain Terminated Employees .   
  (1)  Termination During Performance Period . If you terminate employment during the Performance Period but are eligible to receive a
portion of your Potential Award as a result of an exception under Section 5.1(b), payment of such portion of your Potential Award shall be in full satisfaction of all rights you have under this Award Agreement; in such circumstances, you will
not be eligible for a payment of the Deferred Portion under Section 5.2(a)(2), and no other amounts will be payable to you or on your behalf. The portion of your Potential Award payable to you following a termination of

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 10         
   
employment during the Performance Period under circumstances described in Section 5.1(b) shall be paid to you or, in the event of your death, to your designated beneficiary for the Award, in
cash within ninety (90) days after the Committee certifies in writing (for purposes of Section 162(m) of the Code) that your Target Award has become a Potential Award for the Performance Period, but no later than March 15, 2014
(subject to section 5.2(c)). In the event of your death and you do not have a properly completed beneficiary designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management s office, your payment will be made to
your estate.      (2)  Termination After December 31, 2014 and Before December 31, 2015 . Notwithstanding
Section 5.2(a)(2), if your employment terminates after the close of the Performance Period but prior to December 31, 2015, and the Committee determines that your employment terminated under circumstances described in Sections 5.1(b)(1) or
(2), then the Deferred Portion of your Potential Award described in Section 5.2(a)(2) shall be paid to you or, in the event of your death, to your designated beneficiary, in cash within ninety (90) days following your termination of
employment, but no later than March 15 of the year following your termination of employment (subject to Section 5.2(c)). In the event Code section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) applies because you are a specified employee receiving a distribution on
account of a termination of employment, payment of the Deferred Amount must be delayed for six months from such date. You will be notified if you are a specified employee under Code section 409A. The amount payable in cash under this
Section 5.2(b)(2) shall be determined by multiplying the number of units representing shares of phantom stock credited to your account under Section 5.2(a)(3) on the date your termination becomes effective by the closing price for a share
of the Corporation s common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for the date on which your termination becomes effective, or if it is not a trading day, on the last trading day before that date. In the event of your death and you
do not have a properly completed beneficiary designation form on file with the Vice President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, your payment will be made to your estate.   
  (c)  Deferral Election . You will be given an opportunity to elect to defer any amounts payable under Section 5.2 of this Award
Agreement. Such election shall be irrevocable, shall be made in accordance with the terms of the Lockheed Martin Corporation Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan ( DMICP ) and the requirements of Code section 409A, and shall be
subject to such additional terms and conditions as are set by the Committee. A deferral election form and the terms and conditions for any deferral will be furnished to you in due course. The beneficiary designation for the DMICP (rather than the
beneficiary designation for this Long Term Incentive Performance Award) shall govern any amounts deferred under the terms of the DMICP.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 11         
   5.3.  Cutback . Any payment called for under Section 5.2 will be reduced to
the extent that such payment together with payments attributable to any other Cash-Based Awards that are granted during 2012 as Performance Based Awards exceeds $10,000,000. Amounts that cannot be paid due to any limitation in the Plan shall be
forfeited.      5.4.  Withholding . Any payment made in respect of your Award will be subject to income tax withholding at
the minimum rate prescribed by law. You may owe taxes in addition to the amount withheld and may request that tax be withheld at a greater rate. As required under the law, FICA tax will be collected from you or withheld from the amount of your award
or from your wages, when any portion of an award becomes vested for tax purposes prior to payment.      5.5.  Means of
Satisfying Code Section 409A . If any payment that would otherwise be made under this Award Agreement is required to be delayed by reason of Section 13, such payment shall be made at the earliest date permitted by Code section 409A. The
amount of any delayed payment shall be the amount that would have been paid prior to the delay adjusted to include interest from the original payment date to the actual payment date, at a rate equivalent to the six month London Interbank Offered
Rate (LIBOR) as published in the Money Rates section of the Wall Street Journal, plus 25 basis points. The increase over LIBOR may be adjusted to reflect the six month unsecured borrowing rate of the Corporation.   
   Section 6.    No Assignment   General Creditor Status .    
  You shall have no right to assign any interest you might have in all or any part of the Target Award or Potential Award which has been
granted to you under this Award Agreement and any attempt to do so shall be null and void and shall have no force or effect whatsoever. Furthermore, all payments called for under this Award Agreement shall be made in cash from the Corporation s
general assets, and your right to payment from the Corporation s general assets shall be the same as the right of a general and unsecured creditor of the Corporation.       Section 7.   Plan .       This Award Agreement shall be subject
to all of the terms and conditions set forth in the Plan.       Section 8.   Change in Control .   
      8.1.  Change in Control Before December 31, 2015 . If during the Performance Period, a Change in Control (as
defined in Section 7 of the Plan) occurs, the Performance Period will terminate. Notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 12         
   
Agreement to the contrary, a pro rata portion of your Award will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of the Change in Control. The prorated portion will be the sum of (i) the result
obtained by first multiplying your Target Award by the Total Stockholder Return Performance Factor calculated under Section 3.2(b), but based upon the Total Stockholder Return for the Corporation and the Peer Performance Group as of the last
day of the month immediately preceding the Change in Control, and then further multiplying that product by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days in the Performance Period prior to the Change in Control and the denominator of which
is the total number of days in the Performance Period. If a Change in Control occurs after the end of the Performance Period but before December 31, 2015, notwithstanding any deferral election or term of this Award Agreement to the contrary,
the Deferred Portion of your Potential Award described in Section 5.2(c) will be paid to you within fifteen (15) days of the Change in Control. The amount payable shall be determined by multiplying the number of units representing shares
of phantom stock credited to your account under Section 5.2(c)(2) by the closing price for a share of the Corporation s common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange for the date on which the Change in Control occurs, or if it is
not a trading day, on the last trading day before that date.      8.2.  Special Rule . Notwithstanding Section 8.1, if a
payment in accordance with those provisions would result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, then the date of distribution to you shall be delayed until the earliest date upon which
the distribution either would not result in a nonexempt short-swing transaction or would otherwise not result in liability under Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   

Section 9.   
     Amendment and Termination .         As provided in Section 9 of the Plan, the Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or discontinue the Plan and the Committee may at any time amend this Award Agreement. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, no such action by the Board of Directors or the Committee shall amend Sections 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5 in a manner adverse to you or reduce the amount payable hereunder in a material manner without your written consent. For this purpose, a
change in the amount payable hereunder that occurs solely by reason of a change in the date or form of payment shall in no case be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. Thus, for example, if an amount payable by reason of
Section 8 is delayed by an amendment to this Award Agreement or other action undertaken to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code and the amount payable is reduced solely by reason of a corresponding delay in the date of
valuation of a share of the Corporation s common stock, such a change shall not be treated as a reduction prohibited by this Section 9. This Section 9 shall be construed and applied so as to permit the Committee to amend this Award
Agreement at any time in any manner reasonably necessary or appropriate in order to comply with the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and of Code section 409A, including amendments regarding the timing and form
of payments hereunder.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 13         

Section 10.   
      No Right to an Award; Value of Award .         Your status as an Employee shall not be construed as a commitment that any one or more awards shall be made under the Plan to you or to Employees generally. Your status as a Participant shall not entitle
you to any additional award. The value of the Award will not be taken into account for other benefits offered by the Corporation, including but not limited to pension benefits.   

Section 11.   
      No Assurance of Employment .         Nothing contained in the Plan or in this Award Agreement shall confer upon you any right to continue in the employ or other service of the Corporation or constitute any contract (of employment or
otherwise) or limit in any way the right of the Corporation to change your compensation or other benefits or to terminate your employment with or without cause.       
    In the event of a conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the Plan document shall control.       

Section 13.   
      Compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code .      
  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that this Award Agreement constitutes a
nonqualified deferred compensation plan to which Code section 409A applies, payments under this Award Agreement shall be made at a time and in a manner that satisfies the requirements of Code section 409A and guidance of general applicability issued
thereunder, including the provisions of 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) to the extent distributions to any specified employee are required to be delayed six months, and all terms shall be interpreted in accordance with Code section 409A.   

Section 14.   
      Post-Employment Covenants   Stock Ownership Requirements .      
  By accepting this Award Agreement through the procedure described above, you agree to the terms of the Post-Employment Covenants contained
in Exhibit A to this Award Agreement and you acknowledge receipt of the Stock Ownership Requirements ( Ownership Requirements ) attached as Exhibit B to this Award Agreement and agree to comply with such Ownership Requirements.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 14         

    No Award is enforceable until you properly acknowledge your acceptance by returning an executed copy of this Award Agreement, as soon as possible but in no event later than May 31, 2012, to the Vice
President of Total Rewards and Performance Management, Lockheed Martin Corporation, Mail Point 123, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      By signing this Award Agreement, you consent to receive copies of the Prospectus applicable to this Award from this internet site ( http://www.benefitaccess.com ) as well as to electronic delivery of
the Corporation s annual report on Form 10-K, annual proxy and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. This consent can only be withdrawn by written notice to the Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary, Lockheed Martin
Corporation, 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20817.      A pre-addressed envelope has been enclosed for your convenience to
return with a copy of this Award Agreement, as acknowledged by you below.        

Sincerely,   

David A. Filomeo   
 
  Vice President   
 
    Total Rewards and Performance  
  Management    
 
   Enclosures      ACKNOWLEDGEMENT:       

Signature  

Date   

Print or type name  

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 15         
   Appendix A      Capitalized Terms       

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 16         
   Exhibit A      Post Employment Conduct Agreement      (LTIP Grant)   
  This Post Employment Conduct Agreement (this  PECA ) attached as Exhibit A to the Award Agreement with an Award Date of
January 30, 2012 (the  Award Agreement ) is entered into in consideration of, among other things, the grant of a Long Term Incentive Performance Award to me under the Award Agreement (the  LTIP ) pursuant to the Lockheed
Martin Corporation 2011 Incentive Performance Award Plan (the  Plan ). References to the  Corporation  shall include Lockheed Martin Corporation and its Subsidiaries. By accepting the LTIP, I agree as follows:   
  1.  Protective Covenants .      (a)  Covenant Not To Compete    Without the express written consent of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Corporation, during the two-year
period following the date of my termination of employment (the  Termination Date ) with the Corporation, I will not, directly or indirectly, be employed by, provide services to, or advise a  Restricted Company  (as defined in
Section 6 below), whether as an employee, advisor, director, officer, partner or consultant, or in any other position, function or role that, in any such case,       

(i)  
  oversees, controls or affects the design, operation, research, manufacture, marketing, sale or distribution of  Competitive Products or Services  (as defined
in Section 6 below) of or by the Restricted Company, or         

(ii)  
  would involve a substantial risk that the  Confidential or Proprietary Information  (as defined in Section 1(c) below) of the Corporation (including but
not limited to technical information or intellectual property, strategic plans, information relating to pricing offered to the Corporation by vendors or suppliers or to prices charged or pricing contemplated to be charged by the Corporation,
information relating to employee performance, promotions or identification for promotion, or information relating to the Corporation s cost base) could be used to the disadvantage of the Corporation.     
  (b)  Non-Solicit    Without the express written consent of the Management Development and Compensation Committee of the Board of
Directors of the Corporation, during the two-year period following the Termination Date, I will not (i) interfere with any contractual relationship between the Corporation and any customer, supplier, distributor or

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 17         
   
manufacturer of or to the Corporation to the detriment of the Corporation or (ii) induce or attempt to induce any person who is an employee of the Corporation to perform work or services for
any entity other than the Corporation.      (c)  Protection of Proprietary Information    Except to the extent required
by law, following my Termination Date, I will have a continuing obligation to comply with the terms of any non-disclosure or similar agreements that I signed while employed by the Corporation committing to hold confidential the  Confidential or
Proprietary Information  (as defined below) of the Corporation or any of its affiliates, subsidiaries, related companies, joint ventures, partnerships, customers, suppliers, partners, contractors or agents, in each case in accordance with the
terms of such agreements. I will not use or disclose or allow the use or disclosure by others to any person or entity of Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation or others to which I had access or that I was responsible for
creating or overseeing during my employment with the Corporation. In the event I become legally compelled (by deposition, interrogatory, request for documents, subpoena, civil investigative demand or otherwise) to disclose any proprietary or
confidential information, I will immediately notify the Corporation s Senior Vice President, General Counsel, and Corporate Secretary as to the existence of the obligation and will cooperate with any reasonable request by the Corporation for
assistance in seeking to protect the information. All materials to which I have had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to me in connection with my employment with the Corporation shall be and remain the property of the
Corporation. For purposes of this PECA,  Confidential or Proprietary Information  means Proprietary Information within the meaning of CPS 710 (a copy of which has been made available to me), including but not limited to information that a
person or entity desires to protect from unauthorized disclosure to third parties that can provide the person or entity with a business, technological, or economic advantage over its competitors, or which, if known or used by third parties or if
used by the person s or entity s employees or agents in an unauthorized manner, might be detrimental to the person s or entity s interests. Confidential or Proprietary Information may include, but is not limited to:   

(i)  
  existing and contemplated business, marketing and financial business information such as business plans and methods, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts,
financial data, cost or pricing data, bid and proposal information, customer identification, sources of supply, contemplated product lines, proposed business alliances, and information about customers or competitors, or     

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 18         

(ii)  
  existing or contemplated technical information and documentation pertaining to technology, know how, equipment, machines, devices and systems, computer hardware and
software, compositions, formulas, products, processes, methods, designs, specifications, mask works, testing or evaluation procedures, manufacturing processes, or production processes.     
  (d)  No disparagement    Following the Termination Date, I will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that
disparage or reasonably may be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology, products or services with respect to any matter whatsoever.   
  (e)  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations    Following the Termination Date, I will, to the extent reasonably requested,
cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to
provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of my employment with the Corporation, I reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. Notwithstanding any other provision of this PECA,
nothing in this PECA shall affect my obligation to cooperate with any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.      2.  Consideration and Acknowledgement . I acknowledge and agree that the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the Award Agreement are in addition to the benefits
and compensation opportunities that otherwise are or would be available to me in connection with my employment by the Corporation and that the grant of the LTIP is expressly made contingent upon my agreements with the Corporation set forth in this
PECA. I acknowledge that the scope and duration of the restrictions in Section 1 are necessary to be effective and are fair and reasonable in light of the value of the benefits and compensation opportunities being made available to me under the
Award Agreement. I further acknowledge and agree that as a result of the high level executive and management positions I hold with the Corporation and the access to and extensive knowledge of the Corporation s Confidential or Proprietary
Information, employees, suppliers and customers, these restrictions are reasonably required for the protection of the Corporation s legitimate business interests.      3.  Remedies For Breach of Section  Additional Remedies of Clawback and Recoupment .      (a) If I become (or currently am) an Insider (as defined in the Plan) or receive a Long-Term Incentive Performance Award, I agree, upon demand by the Corporation, to forfeit, return or repay to the
Corporation the  Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below) in the event any of the following occur:       

(i)  
  I breach any of the covenants or agreements in Section      

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 19         

(ii)  
  The Corporation determines that either (a) my intentional misconduct or gross negligence, or (b) my failure to report another person s intentional
misconduct or gross negligence of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation, contributed to the Corporation having to restate all or a portion of its financial statements filed for any period with the Securities and
Exchange Commission;         

(iii)  
  The Corporation determines that I engaged in fraud, bribery or any other illegal act or that my intentional misconduct or gross negligence (including the failure to
report the acts of another person of which I had knowledge during the period I was employed by the Corporation) contributed to another person s fraud, bribery or other illegal act, which in any such case adversely affected the
Corporation s financial position or reputation; or         

(iv)  
  Under such other circumstances specified by final regulation issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission entitling the Corporation to recapture or clawback
 Benefits and Proceeds  (as defined below).        (b) The remedy provided in Section 3(a) shall not be
the exclusive remedy available to the Corporation for any of the conduct described in Section 3(a) and shall not limit the Corporation from seeking damages or injunctive relief.   
  (c) For purposes of this Section 3,  Benefits and Proceeds  means (i) to the extent I have earned any of the LTIP, any
cash paid to me, whether paid currently or deferred; and (ii) to the extent I have not earned the LTIP fully, all of my remaining rights, title or interest in the LTIP.      4.  Injunctive Relief . I acknowledge that the Corporation s remedies at law may be inadequate to protect the Corporation against any actual or threatened breach of the provisions of
Section 1 or the conduct described in Section 3(a), and, therefore, without prejudice to any other rights and remedies otherwise available to the Corporation at law or in equity (including but not limited to, an action under
Section 3(a), the Corporation shall be entitled to the granting of injunctive relief in its favor and to specific performance without proof of actual damages and without the requirement of the posting of any bond or similar security.

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 20         
   5.  Invalidity; Unenforceability . It is the desire and intent of the parties that
the provisions of this PECA shall be enforced to the fullest extent permissible. Accordingly, if any particular provision of this PECA is adjudicated to be invalid or unenforceable, this PECA shall be deemed amended to delete the portion adjudicated
to be invalid or unenforceable, such deletion to apply only with respect to the operation of this provision in the particular jurisdiction in which such adjudication is made.      6.  Definitions . Capitalized terms not defined in this PECA have the meaning given to them in the Plan, as applicable. For purposes of this PECA, the following terms have the meanings given below:
     (a)  Restricted Company  means The Boeing Company, General Dynamics Corporation, Northrop Grumman Corporation, the
Raytheon Company, United Technologies Corporation, Honeywell International Inc., BAE Systems Inc., L-3 Communications Corporation, the Harris Corporation, Thales, EADS North America and (i) any entity directly or indirectly controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with any of the foregoing, and (ii) any successor to all or part of the business of any of the foregoing as a result of a merger, reorganization, consolidation, spin-off, split-up, acquisition,
divestiture, or similar transaction.      (b)  Competitive Products or Services  means products or services that compete
with, or are an alternative or potential alternative to, products sold or services provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation as of the Termination Date and at any time within the two-year
period ending on the Termination Date; provided, that, (i) if I had direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation at any
time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided during that two-year period by the subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of
the Corporation for which I had responsibility, and (ii) if I did not have direct responsibility for the business of, or function with respect to, a subsidiary, or for a business area, division or operating unit or business of the Corporation
at any time within the two-year period ending on the Termination Date, Competitive Products or Services includes the products so sold or the services so provided by a subsidiary, business area, division or operating unit of the Corporation for which
I had access (or was required or permitted such access in the performance of my duties or responsibilities with the Corporation) to Confidential or Proprietary Information of the Corporation at any time during the two-year period ending on the
Termination Date.   

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 21         
   7.  Miscellaneous .   
  (a) The Plan, the Award Agreement and this PECA constitute the entire agreement governing the terms of the award of the LTIP to me.
     (b) This PECA shall be governed by Maryland law, without regard to its provisions governing conflicts of law. Any enforcement
of, or challenge to, this PECA may only be brought in the Circuit Court of Maryland or the United States District Court for the District of Maryland. Both parties consent to the proper jurisdiction and venue of the Circuit Court of Maryland and the
United States District Court for the District of Maryland for the purpose of enforcing or challenging this PECA.      (c) This PECA
shall inure to the benefit of the Corporation s successors and assigns and may be assigned by the Corporation without my consent.      (d) This PECA provides for certain obligations on my part following the Termination Date and shall not, by implication or otherwise, affect in any way my obligations to the Corporation during the term of
my employment by the Corporation, whether pursuant to written agreements between the Corporation and me, the provisions of applicable Corporate policies that may be adopted from time to time or applicable law or regulation.   
   This PECA is effective as of the acceptance by me of the award of an LTIP under the Award Agreement and is not contingent on the
vesting of the LTIP.    

Award Date: January 30, 2012      Page 22         
   Exhibit B      Stock Ownership Requirements      Lockheed Martin s Stock Ownership Requirements for Key
Employees apply to all senior level positions of Vice President and above. This reflects the expectations of our major shareholders that management demonstrate its confidence in Lockheed Martin through a reasonable level of personal share ownership.
This practice is consistent with other major U.S. corporations which link some portion of personal financial interests of key employees with those of shareholders.       Stock Ownership Requirements        

Title     
      
      Annual Base Pay Multiple      

Chief Executive Officer   
      
  6 times   
 
    President/Chief Operating Officer   
      
  5 times   
 
    Chief Financial Officer   
      
  4 times   
 
    Business Area Executive Vice Presidents   
      
  3 times   
 
    Corporate Senior Vice Presidents   
      
  2 times   
 
    Other Elected Officers   
      
  2 times   
 
    All Other Vice Presidents   
      
  1 times   
     Satisfaction of Requirements       Covered employees may satisfy their ownership requirements with common stock in these categories:       

Shares owned directly.          

Shares owned by a spouse or a trust.          

Shares represented by monies invested in 401(k) Company Common Stock Funds or comparable plans.      

Share equivalents as represented by income deferred to the Company Stock Investment Option of the Deferred Management Incentive Compensation Plan
(DMICP).          

Unvested Restricted Stock Units.         Key employees will be required to achieve the appropriate ownership level within 5 years and are expected to make continuous progress toward their target. Appointment to a new level will reset the five
year requirement. Unexercised options prior to vesting are not counted toward meeting the guidelines.       Holding Period    
  Covered employees must retain net vested Restricted Stock Units and the net shares resulting from any exercise of stock options if the ownership
requirements are not yet satisfied.      Covered employees are asked to report annually on their progress toward attainment of their share
ownership goals.   

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.40>
 4
 d221578dex1040.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.40

Exhibit 10.40 

Exhibit 10.40       Lockheed Martin Corporation      6801 Rockledge Drive Bethesda, MD 20817   
  Telephone 301-897-6208 Facsimile 301-897-6758   
  E-mail: john.t.lucas@lmco.com       

John T. Lucas   
  Senior Vice President, Human Resources      Retirement Transition Agreement      January 26, 2012
     Ralph D. Heath      Lockheed Martin
Corporation      Executive Vice President, Aeronautics      P. O. Box 748      Ft. Worth, Texas 76101      Dear Mr. Heath:      This letter agreement ( Agreement ) confirms our
discussions concerning your desire to retire, and the compensation and benefits you will receive in retirement in recognition of your contributions to the Corporation and your effective leadership of the Aeronautics Business Area.   
  1.  Change in Position; Retirement.  Effective April 1, 2012, you will step down voluntarily as Executive Vice President,
Aeronautics, but will remain an elected Executive Vice President of the Corporation reporting to Chris Kubasik, President and Chief Operating Officer. As an elected officer and Executive Vice President, you will continue to be entitled to all the
benefits of an Executive Vice President, subject to the terms of this Agreement. During the period from April 1, 2012 to April 30, 2012 you will assist in the orderly transition of your responsibilities and knowledge to your successor as
Executive Vice President, Aeronautics and will perform such other duties as may be assigned to you by the President and Chief Operating Officer or the Senior Vice President, Human Resources. Your employment will terminate effective at the close of
business on April 30, 2012 and your retirement will be effective as of May 1, 2012, provided that you accept the terms of this Agreement and do not revoke your acceptance.   
  2.  Benefits.  In consideration of the Corporation entering into this Agreement and the benefits provided herein, you will receive
the benefits set forth in this paragraph 2 (collectively, the  Benefits ). Acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, which incorporates herein by reference the release of claims attached as Addendum A (the  Second Release ),
must occur no later than February 16, 2012, twenty-one (21) days following your receipt of this Agreement. Provided that you accept the terms of this Agreement, do not revoke your acceptance as provided for in Paragraph 13 (c), this
Agreement shall be effective and you will be eligible to receive the Benefits set forth in Paragraph 2(a), (b), (e), (f) and (g). Upon my      EXECUTION VERSION   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 2
 of 8         
   
execution, return and non-revocation of the Second Release no earlier than April 30, 2012, you will be eligible to receive the Benefits set forth in Paragraph 2(c) and (d).  
  (a)  Compensation.  You will remain on the Corporation s payroll through April 30, 2012. During this period, you will
continue to receive base pay at your current rate of $760,000 annually, with payments to be made on the Corporation s regular pay days, less appropriate deductions for federal and state withholdings, other applicable taxes, and any lawfully
authorized or required payroll deductions. On or around April 30, 2012, you will be issued a final paycheck that will include payment for all accrued but unused vacation as of April 30, 2012.   
  (b)  Employee Benefit Plans.  During the period set forth in paragraph 2(a), you may continue to participate in those employee
benefit plans of the Corporation in which you currently participate, except that you will not be eligible for additional equity incentive grants or long term incentive performance awards under the Corporation s long term incentive plans.
Previous awards of equity grants and long term incentive payments will vest in accordance with the retirement provisions of the applicable plan. Except as provided for in paragraph 2(c) and paragraph 2(d), your active employee benefits will cease on
April 30, 2012.      (c)  Payment.  Provided that you have signed the Second Release, no later than June 1, 2012
you will receive a payment of $950,000, less appropriate deductions for federal and state withholding, and other applicable taxes.      (d)  Consulting Agreement.  As of May 1, 2012, the Corporation will execute a consulting agreement for the period from May 1, 2012   April 30, 2013 in a form substantially similar
to that attached as Exhibit A to this Agreement, at a rate of $5,000 per day, plus expenses, with the number of days worked not to exceed 52.      (e)  Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Payments.  You will receive a pay-out of your nonqualified deferred compensation in accordance with your elections and the terms of the applicable plan
documents. Any amounts due in 2012 related to your separation from service with the Corporation will be subject to a six-month delay until approximately November 1, 2012.      (f)  Tax Assistance.  The Corporation will provide tax assistance if your 2010 tax return is selected for audit.      (g)  Retirement and Post Employment Benefits.  Following your retirement, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable benefit plans and arrangements with the Corporation, you will be
entitled to participate in those post-employment health benefits that you are eligible to receive as of the date of your retirement and will be entitled to any vested benefits you are entitled to receive under the Corporation s retirement plans
or programs in which you participate as of the date of your retirement.      3.  Other Compensation and Benefits  . 
Except for the payment specified in paragraph 2(c), you agree that you will not be entitled to and will not receive any severance or termination benefits in connection with your termination of employment with the Corporation, including but not
limited to severance or termination benefits under the Corporation s existing or any future severance pay policies or plans.   
         EXECUTION VERSION   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 3
 of 8         
   4.  Employee s Acknowledgment.  You hereby affirm that you understand and
acknowledge that a portion of the Benefits being provided to you by the Corporation under this Agreement are beyond any that otherwise are or would be owed to you by the Corporation, and that the Benefits are being provided to you in consideration
for your entering into this Agreement, including but not limited to the Releases of Claims set forth in paragraph 9.      5.
 Nondisclosure.  You acknowledge that during the course of your employment with the Corporation you have acquired, and may have generated, a substantial amount of information that the Corporation deems confidential and/or proprietary to the
Corporation and/or subject to attorney client privilege. In addition, you have had access to certain third-party information that has been provided to the Corporation on a confidential basis. You agree that you may not use or disclose or allow the
use or disclosure by others of any Corporation confidential, proprietary or attorney client privileged information, or any information of others provided to the Corporation on a confidential basis, without the prior express written consent of the
Corporation.      6.  Disclosure of this Agreement.  You understand and agree that the Corporation is required to disclose
the existence and terms of this Agreement, and to file a copy of this Agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to its periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ).
You consent to any such disclosure and filings deemed necessary or appropriate and made by the Corporation under the Exchange Act and pursuant to any other laws or regulations.   
  7.  Non-Disparagement.  You agree that you will not make any statements, whether verbal or written, that disparage or may
reasonably be interpreted to disparage the Corporation or its stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys, representatives, technology or products with respect to any matter whatsoever. The Corporation agrees not to make any
statements, whether verbal or written, that disparages or may reasonably be interpreted to disparage you or your performance as an officer and employee of the Corporation. You and the Corporation acknowledge and agree that neither this provision nor
any other provision of this Agreement affects your obligations or the Corporation s obligations to cooperate with any government investigation or to respond truthfully to any lawful governmental inquiry or to give truthful testimony in court.
     8.  Cooperation in Litigation and Investigations.  You agree and covenant that you will, to the extent reasonably
requested by the Corporation, cooperate with the Corporation in any pending or future litigation or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party and regarding which you, by virtue of your employment
with the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. You further agree and covenant that, in any such litigation or investigation, you will, without the necessity
of a subpoena, provide truthful testimony relevant to the litigation or investigation in any jurisdiction in which the Corporation requests. The Corporation will reimburse you for reasonable expenses incurred by you in complying with this paragraph
8 to the extent such expenses are incurred on or after April 30, 2012 provided that the Corporation has authorized the incurrence of such expenses in advance.      9.  Release.  In consideration of the Benefits being provided to you under this Agreement, which, absent this Agreement, a portion of which you otherwise would not be entitled to receive, you, on
behalf of yourself, your heirs, estate, executors, administrators, representatives, successors and assigns, and anyone claiming to be acting on your behalf or in your interest, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever
discharge the Corporation, its affiliates, subsidiaries, benefit plans, related companies, partnerships and joint   
         EXECUTION VERSION   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 4
 of 8         
   
ventures, and their former, current and future officers, directors, shareholders, partners, employees, fiduciaries, agents, attorneys, insurers and representatives, whether acting in their
individual or official capacities, and all persons acting by, through, or in concert with any of them, and all their predecessors, successors and assigns (all of which are hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Released Parties ),
from any and all claims, demands, losses, liabilities, and causes of action or similar rights of any type arising or accruing on or before the date this Agreement is executed (whether known or unknown), as a result of or because of any act,
omission, or failure to act by the Released Parties, including but not limited to those arising out of or relating in any way to your employment by, association with, or termination of employment with the Corporation (hereinafter collectively
referred to as  Claims ).  THIS IS A GENERAL RELEASE , subject only to the specific exceptions set forth in subparagraphs 9(b), (c) and (d).      (a) These Claims include, but are not limited to, any claims for monetary damages, wages, bonuses, commissions, unused sick pay, severance or similar benefits, expenses, attorneys  fees or other
indemnities, or other personal remedies or damages sought in any legal proceeding or charge filed with any court arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ( ADEA ), including but not limited to the Older Workers Benefit
Protection Act ( OWBPA ), except as it relates to the validity of this release under the ADEA as amended by the OWBPA, and Executive Order 11141, Executive Order 11246, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with
Disabilities Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the Civil Rights Act of 1991, the Federal Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the Uniformed Services Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Workers Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, the Fair Labor Standards Act ,  the Texas Commission on Human Rights Act or claims arising under the Civil Rights
Division of the Texas Workforce Commission, Texas law on communicable diseases, Texas disability discrimination law, anti-discrimination provisions of the Texas Workers Compensation Act,  451.001 of the Texas Labor Code, Texas wage payment
laws. The Claims released include, but are not limited to, claims arising under any other federal, state, or local laws or regulations restricting an employer s right to terminate employees, or otherwise regulating employment, including but not
limited to any federal, state, or local law enforcing express or implied employment contracts or covenants; any other federal, state or local laws providing relief for alleged wage and hour violations; wrongful discharge; breach of contract,
including any and all tort claims, including but not limited to, physical or personal injury in any way related to your employment or termination of employment; emotional distress or stress claims in any way related to your employment or termination
of employment, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, defamation, invasion of privacy, violation of public policy and similar or related claims and any and all claims arising under common law.
The claims released include claims that in any way are brought by or on behalf of the government, whether or not the government joins the action such as in the case of a qui tam.   
  (b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, you agree not to file any lawsuit seeking monetary damages for yourself and
asserting any claims that are lawfully released in paragraph 9(a). You further hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waive any and all rights to recover any relief and damages concerning the claims that are lawfully released in paragraph 9(a).
     (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, you are not releasing (1) your right to enforce this Agreement; (2) any rights
to benefits you may have under the Corporation s retirement plans or programs; (3) any claims arising under any Federal or state securities laws that you   
         EXECUTION VERSION   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 5
 of 8         
   
may have as a stockholder of the Corporation; (4) any claims for unemployment compensation; (5) any claims under applicable workers  compensation laws; (6) any claims solely
relating to the validity of this Release of Claims under the ADEA, as amended, (7) any indemnification rights, under the same eligibility rules, as afforded to all other current or former officers of the Corporation pursuant to the
Corporation s bylaws and/or applicable state law; or (8) your right to file a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any similar state or local government agency.   
  (d) No Federal, state or local government agency is a party to this Agreement, and none of the provisions of this Agreement restrict or
in any way affect a government agency s authority to investigate or seek relief in connection with any of the Claims. However, if a government agency were to pursue any matters falling within the Claims, which it is free to do, you and the
Corporation agree that, as between you and the Corporation, this Agreement will control as the exclusive remedy and full settlement of all such Claims by you for money damages. The Agreement is a binding contract between two private parties you
and the Corporation. Therefore, the Agreement affects the two parties  rights only, with no impact on any government agency.      (e) You hereby represent and warrant that you have not previously filed or joined in any Claims released herein against any of the Released Parties or assigned any Claims described in this Release to any
third parties. You affirm that you have been paid and/or have received all compensation, wages, penalties, and/or benefits to which you are entitled and that no other compensation, wages, penalties, and/or benefits are due, except as otherwise
provided in this Release. You affirm furthermore that you have no known injuries arising out of or in the course of your employment with the Corporation, and you have been provided and/or have not been denied leave requested under the Family and
Medical Leave Act or any equivalent state statute or local ordinance.      10.  Corporation.  For the purposes of this
Agreement, the term  Corporation  or  Lockheed Martin  includes the Corporation and its affiliates as well as the predecessors and successors of the Corporation and their affiliates.   
  11.  Entire Agreement.  The understandings set forth in this Agreement represent the entire agreement between you and the
Corporation with respect to the matters contained herein. Neither you nor the Corporation has relied upon any other agreements, understandings or representations. This Agreement supersedes any prior agreements or representations between you and the
Corporation as to the subject matter contained herein. The Agreement may not be altered or modified except by mutual agreement between you and the Corporation, evidenced in writing and executed by both you and the Corporation and specifically
identified as an amendment to this Agreement. This Agreement shall be governed by and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Maryland, without giving effect to the conflict of law provisions thereof.   
  You represent and acknowledge that, other than as expressly set forth in this Agreement, in executing this Agreement you are not relying
upon any representation or statement made by any officer, director, employee, agent or other representative of the Corporation with regard to the subject matter, basis or effect of this Agreement.   
         EXECUTION VERSION   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 6
 of 8         
   12.  Review and Revocation Rights.  By signing below, you acknowledge that:
     (a) You have been advised by the Corporation to consult with an attorney prior to executing this Agreement. You have
requested and received from the Corporation any information that you need in order to make a knowing and voluntary release of all Claims;      (b) You understand that you can take up to 21 days to consider this Release. To the extent you have signed this Release prior to the expiration of the 21 days, you hereby waive your right to the balance
of such period of consideration and acknowledge and represent that your waiver of such period is knowing and voluntary and has not been induced by the Corporation; and      (c) You understand that you have seven days following signing of this Agreement to revoke it, and that the Agreement will not become effective until the seven-day revocation period has expired without
your revocation of this Agreement. You further understand and acknowledge that to be effective, any revocation must be in writing and either personally delivered to the Corporation, care of John T. Lucas, Senior Vice President, Human Resources or
sent by certified mail, return receipt requested to Mr. John T. Lucas at 6801 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, by 5:00 p.m., Bethesda, Maryland time, on or before the seventh calendar day after you sign this Agreement.
     By signing below, you acknowledge that you have read the terms of this Agreement, fully understand the terms and their effect, are
voluntarily agreeing to those terms of your own free will, and intend to be legally bound. Please return this Agreement to me by no later than February 16, 2012.   

Sincerely,   

/s/ John T. Lucas    
 
  John T. Lucas   
 
    THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS A GENERAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS, PLEASE READ CAREFULLY BEFORE SIGNING.    
  Agreed to:       
       
         EXECUTION VERSION   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 7
 of 8         
    ADDENDUM        Second Release of Claims       In consideration of the payments and other
benefits being provided to you under the terms of the January26, 2012 Agreement between Lockheed Martin Corporation ( Corporation ) and Ralph Heath, concerning the separation of your employment from the Corporation (the
 Agreement ), which, absent the Agreement, you otherwise would not be entitled to receive, on behalf of your heirs, estate, executors, administrators, representatives, successors and assigns, and anyone claiming to be acting on your behalf
or in my interest, hereby irrevocably and unconditionally release, acquit and forever discharge the Corporation, its affiliates, subsidiaries, benefit plans, related companies, partnerships and joint ventures, and their former, current and future
officers, directors, shareholders, partners, employees, fiduciaries, agents, attorneys, insurers and representatives, whether acting in their individual or official capacities, and all persons acting by, through, or in concert with any of them, and
all their predecessors, successors and assigns (all of which are hereinafter collectively referred to as the  Released Parties ), from any and all claims, demands, losses, liabilities, and causes of action or similar rights of any type
arising or accruing on or before the date this Second Release of Claims executed (whether known or unknown), as a result of or because of any act, omission, or failure to act by the Released Parties, including but not limited to, those arising out
of or relating in any way to your employment by, association with, or separation of employment from the Corporation (hereinafter collectively referred to as  Claims ).  THIS IS A GENERAL RELEASE,  subject only to the specific
exceptions set forth in subparagraphs (b), (c) and (d) below.      (a) These Claims include, but are not limited to, any
claims for monetary damages, wages, bonuses, commissions, unused sick pay, severance or similar benefits, expenses, attorneys  fees or other indemnities, or other personal remedies or damages sought in any legal proceeding or charge filed with
any court arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ( ADEA ), including but not limited to the Older Workers Benefit Protection Act ( OWBPA ), except as it relates to the validity of this release under the ADEA as
amended by the OWBPA, and Executive Order 11141, Executive Order 11246, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Americans with Disabilities Amendments Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Civil Rights Act of 1866, the Civil Rights Act of
1991, the Federal Equal Pay Act, the Family and Medical Leave Act, the Immigration Reform and Control Act, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act, the Workers Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, the Texas Commission on Human Rights Act
or claims arising under the Civil Rights Division of the Texas Workforce Commission, Texas law on communicable diseases, Texas disability discrimination law, anti-discrimination provisions of the Texas Workers Compensation Act,  451.001 of the
Texas Labor Code, Texas wage payment laws. The Claims released include, but are not limited to, claims arising under any other federal, state, or local laws or regulations restricting an employer s right to terminate employees, or otherwise
regulating employment, including but not limited to any federal, state, or local law enforcing express or implied employment contracts or covenants; any other federal, state or local laws providing relief for alleged wrongful discharge; breach of
contract, including any and all tort claims, including but not limited to, physical or personal injury in any way related to my employment or separation from employment; emotional distress or stress claims in any way related to my employment or
separation from employment, intentional or negligent infliction of emotional distress, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, defamation, invasion of privacy, violation of public policy and similar or related claims and any and all claims arising under
common law. The claims released also include claims that in any way are brought by or on behalf of the government, whether or not the government joins the action such as in the case of a  qui tarn  proceeding filed under the civil False Claims
Act.      (b) Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, you agree not to file any lawsuit seeking monetary damages for
yourself and asserting any claims that are lawfully released in this Second Release of Claims. You further hereby irrevocably and unconditionally   

Ralph D. Heath - Retirement Transition Agreement   
  January 26, 2012       Page
 8
 of 8         
   
waive any and all rights to recover any relief and damages concerning the claims that are lawfully released in this Second Release of Claims.   
  (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, you are not releasing: (1) your right to enforce this Agreement; (2) any rights to benefits
you may have under the Corporation s retirement plans, LTIP and deferred compensation plans; (3) any claims arising under any Federal or state securities laws that you may have as a stockholder of the Corporation; (4) any claims for
unemployment compensation; (5) any claims for workers compensation benefits under Texas state law; (6) any claims solely relating to the validity of this Release of Claims under the ADEA, as amended, (7) any indemnification rights,
under the same eligibility rules, as afforded to all other current or former officers of the Corporation pursuant to the Corporation s bylaws and/or applicable state law; or (8) my right to file a charge with the U.S. Equal Employment
Opportunity Commission or any similar state or local government agency.      (d) No Federal, state or local government agency is
a party to the Agreement or this Second Release of Claims, and none of the provisions of the Agreement or this Second Release of Claims restricts or in any way affects a government agency s authority to investigate or seek relief in connection
with any of the Claims. However, if a government agency were to pursue any matters falling within the Claims, which it is free to do, the Corporation and you agree that, as between the Corporation and you, the Agreement and this Second Release of
Claims will control as the exclusive remedy and full settlement of all such Claims by me for money damages. The Agreement and this Second Release of Claims are binding agreements between two private parties you and the Corporation. Therefore,
the Agreement and this Second Release of Claims affect the two parties  rights only, with no impact on any government agency.      (e) You hereby represent and warrant that you have not previously filed or joined in any Claims released herein against any of the Released Parties or assigned any Claims described in this Second Release
of Claims to any third parties. You affirm that you have been paid and/or have received all compensation, wages, and/or benefits to which you are entitled and that no other compensation, wages, and/or benefits are due me, except as provided in the
January 26, 2012 agreement. You further affirm that you have no known injuries arising out of or in the course of my employment with the Corporation, and that I have been provided and/or have not been denied leave requested under the Family and
Medical Leave Act or any equivalent state statute or local ordinance.       THIS AGREEMENT CONTAINS A GENERAL RELEASE OF CLAIMS, PLEASE READ
CAREFULLY BEFORE SIGNING.       Accepted and agreed to as of this          day of
         2012.       

Ralph Heath   

Exhibit A to Retirement Transition Agreement     
    PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT        This Professional Services Agreement is made and entered into effective as of May 1, 2012 by and between the Lockheed Martin Corporation (hereinafter  Corporation ) and Ralph Heath
(hereinafter  Consultant ).       WITNESSED:       That in consideration of the promises and mutual obligations hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto agree as follows:       

1.  
   SERVICES BY CONSULTANT       
  For the term of this Agreement, the CONSULTANT will provide consulting services and advice to the Corporation (the  Services )
as follows:       

A.  
  In order to facilitate an orderly transition of management within the Corporation s Aeronautics business area, CONSULTANT shall provide historical background
information, factual and management assistance, guidance, and counsel to the Executive Vice President, Aeronautics (the  Services ),.        These Services will be provided on an  as needed ,  on call  basis;  provided that,  the Corporation must give the CONSULTANT reasonable advance notice as to when the
CONSULTANT s services will be required. The Corporation will provide the CONSULTANT with proper credentials (badges, passes, etc.) to perform any assignment.      CONSULTANT S primary billing contact shall be John Lucas, SVP, Human Resources, referred to hereinafter as the Agreement Monitor.   
   
    The term of this
Agreement shall commence May 1, 2012 and shall end April 30, 2013 unless terminated earlier in accordance with Section 11 below. This Agreement will not be renewed by its own terms. This Agreement may be extended beyond April 30,
2013 by mutual agreement of the parties.       

3.  
   COMPENSATION FOR SERVICES          

A.  
  The Corporation agrees to pay the CONSULTANT, as compensation for the Services, a retainer of $5,000 per day for Services rendered pursuant to this Agreement.
CONSULTANT shall not provide more than 52 days of Services during the 12-month term of this Agreement. For the purposes of this Agreement, one (1) day of Services shall equal eight (8) hours of work. CONSULTANT acknowledges that exceeding
these limitations on the number of days worked may result in CONSULTANT being deemed not to have separated from service or retired from LMC. If this occurs, it may trigger early inclusion in income of all amounts deferred by CONSULTANT under
LMC s nonqualified deferred compensation plans as well as a twenty percent (20%) penalty tax and an interest rate based tax on these amounts in addition to those taxes that would ordinarily be due on the receipt of such amounts. CONSULTANT
acknowledges that all such additional taxes will be the sole responsibility of CONSULTANT and LMC will have no obligation to pay such taxes or reimburse CONSULTANT for such taxes.    

B.  
  Corporation shall reimburse CONSULTANT for reasonable and actual expenses of travel required to provide the services hereunder wh ere  such expenses are incurred
by the CONSULTANT following prior approval of the Agreement Monitor of the trip in question.     
         1   

C.  
  Because the CONSULTANT is not an employee of Corporation, Corporation will not withhold or deduct from the compensation due to the CONSULTANT any amounts for federal,
state and local taxes, the payment of which is the sole responsibility of the CONSULTANT. At the end of each calendar year, Corporation will issue to the CONSULTANT a Form 1099 with respect to the compensation paid under this Agreement. CONSULTANT
acknowledges that the payments under this Agreement and any taxable benefits made available under this Agreement will be taxable as income to him and will be reported as such by Corporation to the IRS.     

4.  
   PAYMENT AND INVOICE           

A.  
  CONSULTANT must submit monthly invoices describing in reasonable detail the services performed, the number of hours during which services were performed, and any
related expenses incurred. Subject to the limitations set forth in this Agreement, Corporation shall reimburse CONSULTANT for reasonable expenses incurred and approved under Section 3.B or C of this Agreement within thirty (30) days
following receipt and approval of an invoice that complies with the requirements of this Agreement. CONSULTANT must submit all invoices pertaining to expenses incurred during a calendar year prior to February 5 of the following year.

B.  
  CONSULTANT must attach to invoices submitted to Corporation for payment all receipts and explanations for any expenditures in excess of $75.00. If original receipts are
not furnished, the reimbursement made to the CONSULTANT may be subject to federal, state and local taxes for reimbursement of the expenditures.         

C.  
  With each invoice, CONSULTANT must submit an Activity Report, in a format which provides an itemized account of the services rendered, date of service and if business
travel was incurred in rendering the services, the geographic location.         

D.  
  Corporation will pay CONSULTANT on a monthly basis after the end of each month during the term of this Agreement for services rendered at the hourly rate specified in
Section 3.A.         

E.  
  Each invoice submitted must also contain the following Statement:  Submission of this invoice certifies compliance with the terms and conditions of my Professional
Services Agreement under which this invoice is submitted and certifies compliance with all laws, regulations and Lockheed Martin policies and procedures and standards of conduct referenced therein.      

F.  
  Invoices and required supporting documentation must be submitted to:        Lockheed Martin Corporation      John Lucas   
  6801 Rockledge Drive      Bethesda, MD 20817      Invoices not in compliance with the requirements of this
Agreement will be returned to the CONSULTANT for correction and resubmission.       

G.  
  Notwithstanding to the contrary, all amounts owed to CONSULTANT, whether as compensation for Services or reimbursement of expenses shall be paid no later than
March 15 of the year following the year in which the Services were performed (in the case of compensation for services) or the year in which the expense was incurred (for reimbursement of expenses). Requests for reimbursement of expenses after
this date shall not be subject to reimbursement.         

5.  
   INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR RELATIONSHIP          

A.  
    Neither this Agreement nor CONSULTANT s performance hereunder constitutes or creates an employee/employer relationship. The Parties understand and
agree that CONSULTANT is not an employee of the Corporation. CONSULTANT will render Services hereunder as an independent contractor and not as an employee, agent, partner, or joint venturer of the Corporation or any of its affiliates or related
entities. This Agreement does not require CONSULTANT s services on a full-     
         2   

time basis. CONSULTANT is not eligible for any benefits applicable to active employees of the Corporation. CONSULTANT is and must act solely as an independent contractor and not as an employee or
agent of the Corporation. CONSULTANT s authority is limited to providing the consulting Services described above and CONSULTANT has no authority, nor may he make any attempt, without the express written consent of the Agreement Monitor, to
incur any obligation or liability, or make any commitments on behalf of the Corporation.         

B.  
  CONSULTANT is an independent contractor under this Agreement and no provision of, or action taken under, this Agreement will entitle CONSULTANT to any rights under any
of the Corporation s compensation, employee benefit and welfare plans, programs, or practices. Neither will any provision of, or action taken under, this Agreement affect in any way the CONSULTANT s rights or obligations under any of the
Corporation s compensation, employee benefit and welfare plans, programs, or practices as these exist by virtue of his preretirement service as an employee of the Corporation. CONSULTANT and the Corporation agree that CONSULTANT will render
Services according to the CONSULTANT s own methods and is subject to the Corporation s control only with regard to the CONSULTANT s final product or result. The Corporation will not exercise direct control or supervision over the
means CONSULTANT uses to provide Services pursuant to this Agreement.         

6.  
   CONFLICT OF INTEREST           

A.  
  CONSULTANT shall not engage in any activity which presents a conflict of interest in the line of his relationship with Corporation.     

B.  
  CONSULTANT hereby acknowledges receipt of a copy of the Corporation   Code of Ethics and Business Conduct   and, by executing this Agreement, CONSULTANT
agrees that CONSULTANT will strictly comply with the provisions of the Code in the performance of the Services hereunder.         

7.  
   NON-DISCLOSURE OF PROPRIETARY OR CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION           

A.  
  CONSULTANT agrees not to disclose to others, either during or subsequent to the term of this Agreement, any Corporation information, knowledge, or data which CONSULTANT
may receive, or have access to, or which may otherwise be disclosed to CONSULTANT, proprietary or confidential information as further defined herein.  Proprietary or Confidential Information  as used herein means any information of
Corporation or of others which has come into Corporation s or CONSULTANT S possession, custody or knowledge in the course of performing services under this Agreement that has independent economic value as a result of its not being
generally known to the public and is the subject of reasonable means to preserve the confidentiality of the information. Proprietary or Confidential Information includes (without limitation) information, whether written or otherwise, regarding
Corporation s personnel, proceedings of the Board of Directors or its committees, earnings, expenses, marketing information, cost estimates, forecasts, bid and proposal data, financial data, trade secrets, products, procedures, inventions,
systems or designs, manufacturing or research processes, material sources, equipment sources, customers and prospective customers, business plans, strategies, buying practices and procedures, prospective and executed contracts and other business
arrangements or business prospects, except to the extent such information become readily available to the general public lawfully and without breach of a confidential, contractual, or fiduciary duty. CONSULTANT acknowledges and agrees that he has a
continuing obligation to not use or disclose Proprietary or Confidential Information.         

B.  
  CONSULTANT agrees that Proprietary or Confidential Information shall be used solely for the purpose of performing the Services required under this Agreement, and
further agrees that except as may strictly be required by CONSULTANT S obligations under this Agreement, CONSULTANT shall not reproduce, nor allow any third party to use or reproduce, any Proprietary of Confidential Information or any documents
or other material containing Proprietary or Confidential information.         

C.  
    All materials to which CONSULTANT had access, or which were furnished or otherwise made available to CONSULTANT in connection with the Services
performed hereunder, shall be and remain the property of Corporation. Upon expiration or termination of this agreement, or upon      
         3   

request of Corporation, CONSULTANT shall return to Corporation all such materials, documents and information, including any Proprietary or Confidential Information and all reproductions thereof,
then in CONSULTANT S possession or control, and CONSULTANT in connection with this Agreement in accordance with specific instructions issued by Corporation to CONSULTANT, shall comply with any instructions within five (5) days of receipt
thereof.         

8.  
   COOPERATION IN LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS         During the term of this Agreement and thereafter, CONSULTANT agrees to the extent reasonably requested, to cooperate with Corporation in any pending or future litigation (including alternative dispute
resolution proceedings) or investigations in which the Corporation or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates is a party or is required or requested to provide testimony and regarding which, as a result of CONSULTANT s prior employment with the
Corporation or services under this Agreement, CONSULTANT reasonably could be expected to have knowledge or information relevant to the litigation or investigation. CONSULTANT s efforts and time spent in satisfaction of CONSULTANT s
obligation to cooperate will be without charge to Corporation and will not be considered time worked under this Agreement, except that Corporation will reimburse CONSULTANT s for any-out-of-pocket expenses incurred in connection with
cooperating with Corporation in any litigation or investigation in accordance with Sections 3 and 4 above. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, nothing in this Agreement shall affect CONSULTANT s obligation to cooperate with
any governmental inquiry or investigation or to give truthful testimony in court.       

9.  
   LIABILITY           

A.  
  Corporation shall not be liable to CONSULTANT for any loss, injury, damage, expense or any liability whatsoever arising out of, or in connection with, the performance
of the services required by this Agreement.         

B.  
  Each party shall be responsible to the other for any costs or expenses including attorney s fees, all expenses of litigation and/or settlement, and court costs,
arising from the default of such party, its officers, employees, agents, suppliers, or subConsultants at any tier, in the performance of any of its obligations under this Agreement.     
   
    This
Agreement shall be governed by, subject to, and construed according to the laws of the State of Maryland excluding its choice of law rules. CONSULTANT shall comply with all applicable Federal, state and local laws, orders and regulations, as well as
with all Corporation policies, operating instructions, rules and regulations applicable to the performance of this Agreement.       

11.  
   DEFAULT AND CONTRACT TERMINATION           

A.  
  DEFAULT. If CONSULTANT fails to comply with any of the terms of this Agreement, fails to make progress as to endanger performance of this Agreement, or fails to provide
adequate assurance of future performance Corporation, by written notice, may terminate this Agreement for default, in whole or in part. CONSULTANT shall have ten (10) days (or such longer period as Corporation may authorize in writing) to cure
any such failure after receipt of notice from Corporation. Corporation shall not be liable for any Services not accepted; however, Corporation may require CONSULTANT to deliver to Corporation any supplies and materials, manufacturing materials, and
manufacturing drawings that CONSULTANT has specifically produced or acquired for the terminated portion of this Agreement. Corporation and CONSULTANT shall agree on the amount of payment for these other deliverables. CONSULTANT shall continue all
Services not terminated.         

B.  
  CONTRACT TERMINATION         

i)  
  Corporation may unilaterally terminate this Agreement, in whole or in part, upon 30 days written notice to CONSULTANT for any reason.     
         4   

ii)  
  CONSULTANT may terminate this Agreement upon 30 days written notice to Corporation; provided that, if CONSULTANT terminates this Agreement in order to accept other
consulting or employment engagements, he must comply with the non-competition obligations as set forth in other agreements with Corporation.         

iii)  
  This Agreement shall terminate immediately and all payments due shall be forfeited if, in rendering Services hereunder, improper payments are made, unlawful conduct is
engaged in, or any part of the fee or expenses payable under this Agreement is used for an illegal purpose.         

iv)  
  In the event this Agreement is terminated under any provision herein (other than under Section 11.A or 11.B.iii), CONSULTANT shall not be required to repay any of
the consideration already paid under the Agreement to date.         
    If any
provision of this Agreement shall be held illegal or unenforceable, the remainder of the Agreement or the application of any other provisions to the parties shall not be affected thereby.   

13.  
   ACCESS TO CLASSIFIED INFORMATION          If clearance is required, business area HR should consult LMS-001 and complete the LMS-F17 form, if applicable, in addition to this agreement. If access to classified information in the performance of
this Agreement is required, CONSULTANT shall furnish the Corporation Security Department with all data required to obtain or verify a personal security clearance with access to such Classified Information. CONSULTANT agrees to comply with the terms
of LMSecurity Procedures LMS-001. Under no circumstances shall CONSULTANT perform service(s) involving access to classified information until CONSULTANT S security clearance has been obtained or verified by Corporation.   

14.  
   ACCEPTANCE OF CONTRACT/TERMS AND CONDITIONS           

A.  
  This Agreement integrates, merges, and supersedes any prior offers, negotiations, and agreements concerning the subject matter hereof and constitutes the entire
agreement between the Parties.         

B.  
  CONSULTANT S acknowledgment, acceptance of payment, or commencement of performance, shall constitute CONSULTANT S unqualified acceptance of this Agreement.

C.  
  Additional or differing terms or conditions proposed by CONSULTANT or included in CONSULTANT S acknowledgement hereof are hereby objected to by Corporation and
have no affect unless accepted in writing by Corporation.         
    Any
assignment of CONSULTANT S contract rights or delegation of duties shall be void, unless prior written consent is given by Corporation.       

16.  
   CONTRACT AMENDMENT AND NOTICES           

A.  
  Only the Corporation s Senior Vice President, Human Resources or his designee has authority to make changes in or amendments to this Agreement. Such changes or
amendments must be in writing.         

B.  
  All notices by Corporation or CONSULTANT shall be given in writing by mail or fax, if applicable, to the following locations:     
         5   

All disputes
under this Agreement which are not disposed of by mutual agreement may be decided by recourse to an action at law or in equity. Until final resolution of any dispute hereunder, CONSULTANT shall diligently proceed with the performance of this
Agreement as directed by Corporation.       

18.  
   GRATUITIES/KICKBACKS          No
gratuities (in the form of entertainment, gifts or otherwise) or kickbacks shall be offered or given by CONSULTANT, to any employee of Corporation with a view toward securing favorable treatment as a supplier.   

19.  
   INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY           

A.  
  CONSULTANT agrees that Corporation shall be the owner of all inventions, technology, designs, works of authorship, mask works, technical information, computer software,
business information and other information conceived, developed or otherwise generated in the performance of this Agreement by or on behalf of CONSULTANT. CONSULTANT hereby assigns and agrees to assign all right, title and interest in the foregoing
to Corporation, including without limitation all copyrights, patent rights and other intellectual property rights therein and further agrees to execute, at Corporation s request and expense, all documentation necessary to perfect title therein
in Corporation. CONSULTANT agrees that it will maintain and disclose to Corporation written records of, and otherwise provide Corporation with full access to, the subject matter covered by this Agreement and that all such subject matter will be
deemed Proprietary or Confidential Information of Corporation and subject to the protection provisions of the paragraph 7 of this Agreement. CONSULTANT agrees to assist Corporation, at Corporation s request and expense, in every reasonable way,
in obtaining, maintaining, and enforcing patent and other intellectual property protection on the subject matter covered by this Clause.         

B.  
  CONSULTANT warrants that the Services performed and delivered under this Agreement will not infringe or otherwise violate the intellectual property rights of any third
party in the United States or any foreign country. CONSULTANT agrees to defend, indemnity and hold harmless Corporation and its customers from and against any claims, damages, losses costs an expenses, including reasonable attorney s fees,
arising out of any action by a third party that is based upon a claim that the Services performed or delivered under this Agreement infringes or otherwise violates the intellectual property rights of any person or entity.     

20.  
   RELEASE OF INFORMATION       
  Except as required by law, no public release of any information, or confirmation or denial of same, with respect to this Agreement or the
subject matter hereof, will be made by CONSULTANT without the prior written approval of Corporation.       

A.  
  CONSULTANT S timely performance is a critical element of this Agreement.     

B.  
  If CONSULTANT becomes aware of difficulty in performing the Services, CONSULTANT shall timely notify Corporation, in writing, giving pertinent details. This
notification shall not change any delivery schedule.     
         6   

22.  
   WAIVER, APPROVAL, AND REMEDIES           

A.  
  Failure by Corporation to enforce any of the provision(s) of this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of the requirement(s) of such provision(s), or as a
waiver of the right of Corporation thereafter to enforce each and every such provision(s).         

B.  
  Corporation s approval of documents shall not relieve CONSULTANT from complying with any requirements of this Agreement.     

C.  
  The rights and remedies of Corporation in this Agreement are cumulative and in addition to any other rights and remedies provided by law or in equity.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed as of the day and year
first above written.       
     Receipt and Acknowledgment    
   I acknowledge that I have received my personal copy of  Setting the Standard,  the Lockheed Martin Code of Ethics and Business
Conduct. I understand that each Lockheed Martin employee, agent, consultant, or representative is responsible for knowing and adhering to the principles and standards of the Code.    
  Signature    /s/ Ralph D. Heath   
      Printed
Name            Ralph D. Heath       
  Date            1/26/12   
   
         7   

</EX-10.40>

<EX-12>
 5
 d221578dex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 12 

Exhibit 12        Lockheed Martin Corporation        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
Charges        

(1)  
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes for years prior to 2011 have been adjusted to conform to the current year s presentation (see Note 1 and
Note 14 in  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  within Item 8 of this Form 10-K).     

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 d221578dex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 21 

Exhibit 21        Subsidiaries of Lockheed Martin Corporation        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Place of Formation     

Lockheed Martin Aerospace Systems Integration Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Lockheed Martin Canada Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Lockheed Martin Desktop Solutions, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Lockheed Martin Engine Investments, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Global, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Integrated Systems, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Integrated Technology, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Logistics Management, Inc.   
      
  Oklahoma   
 
    Lockheed Martin Operations Support, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin Space Alliance Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Lockheed Martin TAS International Services, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Lockheed Martin UK Insys Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Lockheed Martin UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    QTC Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sandia Corporation (d/b/a Sandia National Laboratories, Co.)   
      
  Delaware   
    We have additional operating subsidiaries that, if considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, do not constitute
a significant subsidiary.      All of the above listed subsidiaries have been consolidated in our consolidated financial statements.   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 d221578dex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 23 

Exhibit 23        Consent of Ernst   Young LLP,        Independent Registered Public
Accounting Firm       We consent to the incorporation by reference of our reports dated February 23, 2012, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Lockheed Martin Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission, in the following Registration Statements of Lockheed Martin Corporation:       

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP      McLean, Virginia   
  February 23, 2012   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 d221578dex24.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 24 

Exhibit 24        POWER OF ATTORNEY        LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION    
  The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his
lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits
thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission
( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.
     Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or
substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.       

/s/ NOLAN D. ARCHIBALD    
 
  NOLAN D. ARCHIBALD   
 
  Director   
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for her and in her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ ROSALIND G. BREWER    
 
    ROSALIND G. BREWER  
  Director    
    February 21, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ DAVID B. BURRITT    
 
    DAVID B. BURRITT  
  Director    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ JAMES O. ELLIS, JR.    
 
    JAMES O. ELLIS, JR.  
  Director    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ THOMAS J. FALK    
 
    THOMAS J. FALK  
  Director    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for her and in her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ GWENDOLYN S. KING    
 
    GWENDOLYN S. KING  
  Director    
    February 22, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ JAMES M. LOY    
 
    JAMES M. LOY  
  Director    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ DOUGLAS H. McCORKINDALE    
 
    DOUGLAS H. McCORKINDALE  
  Director    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ JOSEPH W. RALSTON    
 
    JOSEPH W. RALSTON  
  Director    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for her and in her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ ROBERT J. STEVENS    
 
    ROBERT J. STEVENS     Chairman,
Chief Executive Officer, and Director    
    February 22, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ BRUCE L. TANNER    
 
    BRUCE L. TANNER     Executive Vice
President and Chief Financial Officer    
    February 22, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ CHRISTOPHER J. GREGOIRE    
 
    CHRISTOPHER J. GREGOIRE     Vice
President and Controller     (Chief Accounting Officer)    
    February 23, 2012   

POWER OF ATTORNEY    
   LOCKHEED MARTIN CORPORATION       The undersigned hereby constitutes and appoints Maryanne R. Lavan, Marian S. Block, and David A. Dedman, and each of them, jointly and severally, his lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of
substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, including, but not limited to, that listed below, to execute and file, or cause to be filed, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, the
Lockheed Martin Corporation Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 ( Form 10-K ), with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( Commission ) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, and amendments thereto, with exhibits and other documents in connection therewith, and all matters required by the Commission in connection with such Form 10-K.      Further, the undersigned grants unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite or necessary to be done as fully
to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

/s/ CHRISTOPHER E. KUBASIK    
 
    CHRISTOPHER E. KUBASIK  
  President and Chief Operating Officer    
    February 22, 2012   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 d221578dex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 31.1 

Exhibit 31.1       I, Robert J. Stevens, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Lockheed Martin Corporation;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting;     

5.  
  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.          

/s/ Robert J. Stevens   
 
  ROBERT J. STEVENS   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
   Date: February 23, 2012   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 d221578dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 31.2 

Exhibit 31.2       I, Bruce L. Tanner, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Lockheed Martin Corporation;     

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in
light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have:     

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting;     

5.  
  The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial
reporting.          

/s/ Bruce L. Tanner   
 
  BRUCE L. TANNER   
 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
   Date: February 23, 2012   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 d221578dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 32.1 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Lockheed Martin Corporation (the "Corporation") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Robert J. Stevens, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as
adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

/s/ Robert J. Stevens   
 
  ROBERT J. STEVENS   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
   Date: February 23, 2012      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 d221578dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 32.2 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Lockheed Martin Corporation (the "Corporation") on Form 10-K for the period ended
December 31, 2011 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Bruce L. Tanner, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and     

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Corporation.

/s/ Bruce L. Tanner   
 
  BRUCE L. TANNER   
 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
 
   Date: February 23, 2012      A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Corporation and will be retained by the Corporation and furnished to the Securities and Exchange
Commission or its staff upon request.   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 lmt-20111231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 lmt-20111231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 lmt-20111231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 lmt-20111231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 lmt-20111231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 lmt-20111231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

