<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110228_10-K_edgar_data_882095_0001193125-11-050041_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>19105747</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>857327</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3406147</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1478241</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4462909</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>8616026</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-050041.hdr.sgml : 20110228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110228164037
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-050041
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GILEAD SCIENCES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000882095
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS (NO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES) [2836]
		IRS NUMBER:				943047598
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19731
		FILM NUMBER:		11646688

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505743000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		333 LAKESIDE DR
		CITY:			FOSTER CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94404

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Tc9J3fyv1Q8jzeZbT28QYeimbR2qoKJYIQI139khSh6n0KTsFO7fgbykmg7OX26S
 805NeeHqARgpcAuzqzAoDA==

 0001193125-11-050041.txt : 20110228

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549         
        FORM 10-K
             
   (Mark One)        
 
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010        or        
 
   For the transition period from            
to                    Commission File No. 0-19731
             
       GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    

Delaware   
     
   94-3047598    
 
   (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)   
     
   (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)    

333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California   
     
   94404    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)     
   Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 650-574-3000    
         
   SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:    

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share  
     
  The Nasdaq Global Select Market        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE         
       Indicate by
check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant
to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive
Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         No        
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (  229.405) is not contained
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether registrant is a large accelerated filer, an
accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check
one):       

Large accelerated filer        
     
  Accelerated filer       
     
  Non-Accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No        
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant based upon the closing
price of its Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on June 30, 2010 was $25,450,411,375.*      The number of shares
outstanding of the registrant s Common Stock on February 18, 2011 was 795,264,644.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE       Specified portions of the registrant s proxy statement, which will be filed with the Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A in connection with the registrant s 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, to be held on May 12, 2011, are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.   

*  
  Based on a closing price of $34.28 per share on June 30, 2010. Excludes 96,205,183 shares of the registrant s Common Stock held by executive officers,
directors and any stockholders whose ownership exceeds 5% of registrant s common stock outstanding at June 30, 2010. Exclusion of such shares should not be construed to indicate that any such person possesses the power, direct or indirect,
to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of the registrant or that such person is controlled by or under common control with the registrant.     

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   2010 Form 10-K Annual Report          Table of Contents        

PART I   

Item 1  
      
     Business    

4  

Item 1A  
      
     Risk Factors    

28  

Item 1B  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

45  

Item 2  
      
     Properties    

45  

Item 3  
      
     Legal Proceedings    

46  

Item 4  
      
     Reserved    

47  

PART II   

Item 5  
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

48  

Item 6  
      
     Selected Financial Data    

51  

Item 7  
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

52  

Item 7A  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk    

71  

Item 8  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

74  

Item 9  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

74  

Item 9A  
      
     Controls and Procedures    

74  

Item 9B  
      
     Other Information    

76  

PART III   

Item 10  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    

76  

Item 11  
      
     Executive Compensation    

76  

Item 12  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    

76  

Item 13  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

76  

Item 14  
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    

76  

PART IV   

Item 15  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     

77  

SIGNATURES     

141  
        
  We own or have rights to various trademarks, copyrights and trade names used in our business, including the
following: GILEAD     , GILEAD SCIENCES     , TRUVADA     , VIREAD     , HEPSERA     , AMBISOME     , EMTRIVA     , VISTIDE     , LETAIRIS     , VOLIBRIS     , RANEXA      and CAYSTON     . ATRIPLA      is a registered trademark belonging to Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. LEXISCAN      is a registered trademark belonging to Astellas U.S. LLC. MACUGEN      is a registered trademark belonging to Eyetech Inc. SUSTIVA      is a registered trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company. TAMIFLU      is a registered trademark belonging to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. This report also includes other trademarks, service marks and trade names of other companies.

Table of Contents  

    This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the section entitled  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements regarding future events and our future results that are subject to the safe harbors created under the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended (the Securities Act), and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act). Words such as  expect,   anticipate,   target,   goal,   project,   hope, 
 intend,   plan,   believe,   seek,   estimate,   continue,   may,   could,   should,   might,  variations of such words and similar expressions are
intended to identify such forward-looking statements. In addition, any statements other than statements of historical fact are forward-looking statements, including statements regarding overall trends, operating cost and revenue trends, liquidity
and capital needs and other statements of expectations, beliefs, future plans and strategies, anticipated events or trends and similar expressions. We have based these forward-looking statements on our current expectations about future events. These
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that are difficult to predict. Our actual results may differ materially from those suggested by these forward-looking statements for various
reasons, including those identified below under  Risk Factors,  beginning at page 28. Given these risks and uncertainties, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements included
in this report are made only as of the date hereof. Except as required under federal securities laws and the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), we do not undertake, and specifically decline, any obligation to
update any of these statements or to publicly announce the results of any revisions to any forward-looking statements after the distribution of this report, whether as a result of new information, future events, changes in assumptions or otherwise.
   
         3   

Table of Contents  

    PART I    

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS          Overview    
  Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we or us), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers,
develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in
North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. To date, we have focused our efforts on bringing novel therapeutics for the treatment of life threatening diseases to market. We continue to seek to add to our existing portfolio of products through our
internal discovery and clinical development programs and through a product acquisition and in-licensing strategy.       Our Products

Atripla   (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg) is an oral formulation dosed once a day for the
treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection in adults. Atripla is the first once-daily single-tablet regimen for HIV intended as a stand alone therapy or in combination with other antiretrovirals. It is a fixed-dose combination of our
antiretroviral medications, Viread (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva (emtricitabine), and Bristol Myers-Squibb Company s (BMS) non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, Sustiva (efavirenz).      

Truvada   (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) is an oral formulation dosed once a day as part of combination therapy to treat
HIV infection in adults. It is a fixed-dose combination of our antiretroviral medications, Viread and Emtriva.          

Viread   is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy
to treat HIV infection in adults. In 2008, we received marketing approval of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. We have licensed to GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) the rights to commercialize Viread for the treatment of chronic
hepatitis B in China, Japan and Saudi Arabia.          

Emtriva   is an oral formulation of a nucleoside analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitor, dosed once a day as part of combination therapy
to treat HIV infection in adults. In the United States and Europe, Emtriva is also approved as part of combination therapy to treat HIV infection in children.      

Hepsera   (adefovir dipivoxil) is an oral formulation of a nucleotide analogue polymerase inhibitor, dosed once a day to treat chronic
hepatitis B. We have licensed to GSK the rights to commercialize Hepsera for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories.      

AmBisome   (amphotericin B liposome for injection) is a proprietary liposomal formulation of amphotericin B, an antifungal agent to treat
serious invasive fungal infections caused by various fungal species. Our corporate partner, Astellas Pharma US, Inc., promotes and sells AmBisome in the United States and Canada, and we promote and sell AmBisome in Europe, Australia and New Zealand.

Letairis   (ambrisentan) is an endothelin receptor antagonist (ERA) indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH)
(WHO Group 1) in patients with WHO Class II or III symptoms to improve exercise capacity and delay clinical worsening. We sublicensed to GSK the rights to ambrisentan, marketed by GSK as Volibris (ambrisentan), for PAH in territories outside of the
United States.          

Ranexa   (ranolazine) is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. We have licensed to Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA
the rights to Ranexa in territories outside of the United States.          

Vistide   (cidofovir injection) is an antiviral medication for the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with AIDS.
     
         4   

Table of Contents  

Cayston   (aztreonam for inhalation solution) is an inhaled antibiotic as a treatment to improve respiratory systems in cystic fibrosis
(CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P. aeruginosa) . In September 2009, we received conditional marketing approval of Cayston in Europe and Canada. In February 2010, we received marketing approval of Cayston in the United States.
        The following table lists aggregate product sales for our major products (in thousands):   
   
    See Item 8, Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on
Form 10-K, for our total revenues by geographic area.       Royalties from Other Products    

Tamiflu   (oseltamivir phosphate) is an oral antiviral available in capsule form for the treatment and prevention of influenza A and B.
Tamiflu is approved for the treatment of influenza in children and adults in more than 60 countries, including the United States, Japan and the European Union. Tamiflu is also approved for the prevention of influenza in children and adults in the
United States, Japan and the European Union. We developed Tamiflu with F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche). Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay
us royalties based on a percentage of the net sales of Tamiflu.          

Macugen   (pegaptanib sodium injection) is an intravitreal injection of an anti-angiogenic oligonucleotide for the treatment of neovascular
age-related macular degeneration. Macugen was developed by Eyetech Inc. (Eyetech) using technology licensed from us and is now promoted in the United States by Eyetech. Eyetech holds the exclusive rights to manufacture and sell Macugen in the United
States, and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Macugen in the rest of the world. We receive royalties from Eyetech based on sales of Macugen worldwide.      

Lexiscan/Rapiscan   (regadenoson) injection is indicated for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion
imaging (MPI), a test that detects and characterizes coronary artery disease, in patients unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. Astellas US LLC has exclusive rights to manufacture and sell regadenoson under the name Lexiscan in the United
States, subject to its obligations to pay us royalties based on sales of Lexiscan in the United States. In September 2010, our marketing authorization application for regadenoson for MPI in the European Union was approved by the European Medicines
Agency. Rapidscan Pharma Solutions, Inc. (Rapidscan) holds the exclusive right to manufacture and sell regadenoson under the name Rapiscan in Europe and certain territories outside the United States. We will receive royalties from Rapidscan for
sales in these territories.      
         5   

Table of Contents  

    Commercialization and Distribution    
  Our products are marketed through our commercial teams and/or in conjunction with third-party distributors and corporate partners. Our
commercial teams promote our products through direct field contact with physicians, hospitals, clinics and other healthcare providers. We generally grant our third-party distributors the exclusive right to promote our product in a territory for a
specified period of time. Most of our agreements with these distributors provide for collaborative efforts between the distributor and Gilead in obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for the product in the specified territory.   
  We have U.S. and international commercial sales operations, with marketing subsidiaries in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark,
Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Poland, Portugal, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom and the United States.   
  In the United States, our commercial team promotes Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Ranexa. We promote Atripla in the
United States with our joint venture partner, BMS. We distribute Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Vistide and Ranexa in the United States exclusively through the wholesale channel. Our product sales to three large wholesalers, Cardinal
Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp., each accounted for more than 10% of total revenues for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. On a combined basis, in 2010, these wholesalers accounted for
approximately 82% of our product sales in the United States and approximately 43% of our total worldwide revenues. Our corporate partner, Astellas, promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome and Lexiscan for us in the United States. Cayston and
Letairis are distributed exclusively by specialty pharmacies. These specialty pharmacies specialize in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling.
     We sell and distribute Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and AmBisome in Asia, Australia, Europe, Latin America, the Middle
East and New Zealand either through our commercial teams, third-party distributors or corporate partners. We promote Atripla jointly with BMS in the majority of countries in Europe and are responsible for selling and distributing the product in
these countries. In a limited number of Central and Eastern European countries, either Gilead, BMS or a third-party distributor is the sole promoting, selling and distributing company. Under an agreement with Merck   Co., Inc. (Merck), we
promote and distribute Atripla in 12 countries in Latin America and Asia Pacific either through Merck or our existing third-party distributors. GSK promotes, sells and distributes Hepsera in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories and
plans to promote, sell and distribute Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in China, Japan and Saudi Arabia. We rely on our corporate partner, Japan Tobacco Inc., to promote and sell Truvada, Viread and Emtriva in Japan. Our corporate
partner, Astellas, promotes, sells and distributes AmBisome in Canada. Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co., Ltd is responsible for promotion and distribution of AmBisome in Japan. Menarini International Operations Luxembourg SA markets Ranexa in certain
territories outside of the United States for the treatment of chronic angina. Rapidscan Pharma Solutions, Inc. markets Rapiscan (regadenoson) in certain territories outside of the United States for the inducement of pharmacological stress and/or
vasodilation of the coronary vasculature strictly for purposes of diagnosing cardiovascular disease.       Access in the Developing World
      Through the Gilead Access Program, established in 2003, certain of our HIV products are available at substantially reduced
prices in 130 countries in the developing world. We have developed a system of tiered pricing that reflects economic status, using gross national income per capita (GNI) and HIV prevalence. This approach allows us to price our therapies based on a
country s ability to pay.      We also support many clinical studies through the donation of our products to help define the
best treatment strategies in developing world countries. For example, in November 2002, we entered into a collaborative agreement with the Medical Research Council (MRC) of the United Kingdom, Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH and GSK in connection with a
clinical study conducted by the MRC on antiretroviral HIV therapy in Africa. The   
         6   

Table of Contents  

trial, called the DART (Development of AntiRetroviral Therapy) study, was aimed at studying clinical versus laboratory monitoring practices and structured treatment interruptions on continuous
antiretroviral therapy in adults with HIV infection in sub-Saharan Africa. We provided Viread at no cost for the DART study. In addition, we donated tenofovir for the Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research in South Africa (CAPRISA) 004
microbicide trial, which assessed the effectiveness and the safety of a tenofovir-based microbicide gel for the prevention of HIV infection in South African women. We also provide drugs for a number of innovative international studies investigating
whether Viread or Truvada can prevent HIV transmission among at-risk, uninfected adults. This is a potential HIV prevention strategy called pre-exposure prophylaxis, or PrEP.      We also work closely with the World Health Organization and with non-governmental organizations to provide AmBisome for the treatment of leishmaniasis, a parasitic disease, at a preferential price in
resource limited settings. We support numerous clinical studies investigating the role of AmBisome to treat visceral and cutaneous leishmaniasis in developing countries through collaborations with organizations such as the Drugs for Neglected
Diseases initiative and M decins Sans Fronti res.      We have also entered into a number of collaborations related
to access to our products in the developing world, which include:       

PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd (PharmaChem).  In 2005, PharmaChem, one of our commercial manufacturing partners, established a
facility in The Bahamas to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Atripla and Truvada, for resource limited countries through a cooperative effort
with PharmaChem and the Grand Bahama Port Authority.          

Aspen Pharmacare Holdings Ltd (Aspen).  In October 2005, we entered into a non-exclusive manufacturing and distribution agreement with Aspen,
providing for the manufacture and distribution of Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection to certain developing world countries included in our Gilead Access Program. In November 2007, we amended our agreement with Aspen. Under the
amended agreement, Aspen retained the right to manufacture and distribute Viread and Truvada for the treatment of HIV infection in these developing world countries. Aspen has the right to purchase Viread and Truvada in unlabeled bottles from us for
distribution in such countries, and also has the right to manufacture Viread and Truvada using active pharmaceutical ingredient that has been purchased by Aspen from suppliers approved by us. Aspen was also granted the right to manufacture and
distribute generic versions of emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with emtricitabine for the treatment of HIV infection. Aspen is required to pay us royalties on net
sales of Viread and Truvada, as well as royalties on net sales of generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, including versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in combination with generic versions of emtricitabine that are manufactured and
distributed by Aspen.          

Generic Licenses.  We have entered into non-exclusive license agreements with thirteen Indian generic manufacturers, granting them the rights to
produce and distribute generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for the treatment of HIV infection to 95 low income countries around the world, which includes India and many of the low income countries in our Gilead Access Program. The
agreements require that the generic manufacturers meet certain national and international regulatory standards and include technology transfers to enable expeditious production of large volumes of high quality generic versions of tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate. In addition, these agreements allow for the manufacture of commercial quantities of both active pharmaceutical ingredient and finished product.      

Merck   Co., Inc.  In August 2006, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of Merck pursuant to which Gilead and Merck provide
Atripla at substantially reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries in Africa, the Caribbean, Latin America and Southeast Asia. Under the agreement, we manufacture Atripla using efavirenz supplied by Merck, and Merck handles
distribution of the product in the countries covered by the agreement.      
         7   

Table of Contents  

International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) and CONRAD.  In December 2006, we entered into an agreement under which we granted rights to IPM
and CONRAD, a cooperating agency of the U.S. Agency for International Development committed to improving reproductive health by expanding the contraceptive choices of women and men, to develop, manufacture, and, if proven efficacious, arrange for
the distribution in resource limited countries of certain formulations of tenofovir for use as a topical microbicide to prevent HIV infection.          Competition       Our products target a number of areas, including viral,
fungal, respiratory and cardiovascular diseases. There are many commercially available products for the treatment of these diseases. Many companies and institutions are making substantial investments in developing additional products to treat these
diseases. Our products compete with other available products based primarily on:       

efficacy;          

safety;          

tolerability;          

acceptance by doctors;          

ease of patient compliance;          

patent protection;          

ease of use;          

price;          

insurance and other reimbursement coverage;          

distribution; and          

marketing.      
   Our HIV Products.  The HIV landscape is becoming more competitive and complex as treatment trends continue to evolve. A growing
number of anti-HIV drugs are currently sold or are in advanced stages of clinical development. Of the approximately 32 branded HIV drugs available in the United States, our products primarily compete with the fixed-dose combination products in the
nucleotide/nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTI) class, including Combivir (lamivudine/zidovudine), Epzicom/Kivexa (abacavir/lamivudine) and Trizivir (abacavir/lamivudine/zidovudine), each sold by a joint venture established in November
2009 by GSK and Pfizer focused on HIV therapies. Our HIV products also compete broadly with HIV products from Abbott Laboratories, Inc., Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH, Merck, Roche and Tibotec Pharmaceuticals.   
  BMS s Videx EC (didanosine, ddI) became the first generic HIV product in the United States in 2004. GSK s Retrovir (zidovudine)
also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic zidovudine in 2005. BMS s Zerit (stavudine) also faces generic competition in the United States as a result of the launch of generic stavudine in 2008. To
date, there has been little impact from generic didanosine, zidovudine or stavudine on the price of our HIV products; however, price decreases for all HIV products may result in the longer term.   
  Lamivudine, marketed by the joint venture established by GSK and Pfizer, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical
ingredient of Emtriva and a component of both Atripla and Truvada. In May 2010, the compound patent covering Epivir (lamivudine) itself expired in the United States, and we expect to see generic lamivudine in the United States in the near future.
Generic lamivudine has been available in Spain since March 2010. We expect that generic versions of lamivudine will be launched in other countries within the European Union as early as the first quarter of 2011.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

    Our HBV Products.  Our hepatitis B virus (HBV) products, Hepsera and Viread, face
significant competition from existing and expected therapies for treating patients with chronic hepatitis B. Our HBV products face competition from Baraclude (entecavir), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by BMS and launched in the United States
in 2005, and Tyzeka/Sebivo (telbivudine), an oral nucleoside analogue developed by Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) for sale in the United States, the European Union and China.   
  Our HBV products also compete with Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (lamivudine), which was developed by GSK in collaboration with Shire Pharmaceuticals
Group PLC and is sold in the major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia.      Hepsera and Viread for the
treatment of chronic hepatitis B also compete with established immunomodulatory therapies, including Intron-A (interferon alfa-2b), which is sold by Schering Plough Corporation in major countries throughout North and South America, Europe and Asia,
and Pegasys (pegylated interferon alfa-2a), an injectable drug similar to Intron-A sold by Roche for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B.   
   Our Cardiovascular Products.       Letairis competes directly with Tracleer (bosentan) sold by Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with a PAH product from United Therapeutics Corporation.   
  Ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs for the treatment of chronic angina in the
United States, including generic and/or branded beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates. In addition, surgical treatments and interventions such as coronary artery bypass grafting and percutaneous coronary intervention can
be another option for angina patients, and may be perceived by healthcare practitioners as preferred methods to treat the cardiovascular disease that underlies and causes angina.   
  In the United States, there are numerous marketed generic and/or branded pharmacologic stress agents that compete with Lexiscan. Clinical
Data, Inc. is developing apadenoson as a pharmacologic stress agent for MPI which is currently in Phase 3 clinical trials. These stress agents and product candidates could also compete with Lexiscan.   
   Our Other Products.    
  AmBisome faces strong competition from several current and expected competitors. Competition from these current and expected competitors
may erode the revenues we receive from sales of AmBisome. AmBisome faces competition from Vfend (voriconazole) developed by Pfizer and caspofungin, a product developed by Merck that is marketed as Cancidas in the United States and as Caspofungin
elsewhere. AmBisome also competes with other lipid-based amphotericin B products, including Abelcet (amphotericin B lipid complex injection), sold by Enzon Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the United States, Canada and Japan and by Zeneus Pharma Ltd. in
Europe; Amphotec (amphotericin B cholesteryl sulfate complex for injection), sold by Three Rivers Pharmaceuticals, LLC worldwide; and Anfogen (amphotericin B liposomal), sold by Genpharma, S.A. in Argentina. BMS and numerous generic
manufacturers sell conventional amphotericin B, which also competes with AmBisome.      We are aware of at least two lipid
formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. The manufacture of lipid
formulations of amphotericin B is very complex, and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association.   
         9   

Table of Contents  

   Vistide competes with a number of drugs that also treat cytomegalovirus retinitis, including
Cytovene IV and Cytovene (ganciclovir), sold in intravenous and oral formulations by Roche and as an ocular implant by Bausch   Lomb Incorporated; Valcyte (valganciclovir), also marketed by Roche; Foscavir (foscarnet), an intravenous
drug sold by AstraZeneca PLC; and Vitravene (fomivirsen), a drug injected directly into the eye, sold by CibaVision.      Cayston
competes primarily with Tobi (tobramycin inhalation solution, USP), an inhaled medication sold by Novartis for the treatment of CF patients whose lungs contain  P. aeruginosa .   
  Tamiflu competes with Relenza (zanamivir), an anti-influenza drug that is sold by GSK. Relenza is a neuraminidase inhibitor that is
delivered as an orally-inhaled dry powder. Generic competitors include amantadine and rimantadine, both oral tablets that only inhibit the replication of the influenza A virus. BioCryst Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is developing injectable formulations of
peramivir, an influenza neuraminidase inhibitor, for the treatment of influenza, which are currently in Phase 3 clinical trials.      Macugen competes primarily with Visudyne (verteporfin for injection), which is sold by Novartis and used in connection with photodynamic therapy, and Lucentis (ranibizumab), which is sold by Genentech,
Inc.      A number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs.
These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other
public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and programs.       Collaborative Relationships       As part of our business strategy, we establish
collaborations with other companies, universities and medical research institutions to assist in the clinical development and/or commercialization of certain of our products and product candidates and to provide support for our research programs. We
also evaluate opportunities for acquiring products or rights to products and technologies that are complementary to our business from other companies, universities and medical research institutions. More information regarding certain of these
relationships, including their ongoing financial and accounting impact on our business can be found in Item 8, Note 10 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
    Commercial Collaborations        Although we currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern the manufacture, sale, distribution and/or marketing of our products in various territories worldwide, the
following commercial collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.   

Roche.  In September 1996, we entered into a development and license agreement with Roche to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and
prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the original agreement, Roche had the exclusive right and obligation to manufacture and sell
Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its obligation to pay us a percentage of the net sales that Roche generated from Tamiflu sales. Under the agreement, we received an up-front payment in the amount of $5.0 million and were entitled to receive additional
milestone payments of up to $40.0 million upon the achievement of certain development and regulatory objectives. We have received all such milestone payments. In October 1996, Roche also made a cash payment to us in the amount of $5.3 million
related to reimbursement for certain research and preclinical development expenses and our obligation      
         10   

Table of Contents  

to prosecute and maintain certain patents under the agreement. In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the original agreement with Roche. The amendment eliminated
cost of goods adjustments from the royalty calculation, retroactive to calendar year 2004 and for all future calculations. The amendment also provided for the formation of a joint manufacturing committee to review Roche s manufacturing capacity
for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the United States and a joint supervisory committee to evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for
Tamiflu on a global basis. Each of the committees consists of representatives from both Roche and us. Under the amendment, we have the option to provide a specialized sales force to supplement Roche s U.S. marketing efforts for Tamiflu, which
we have not exercised to date. The agreement and Roche s obligation to pay royalties to us will terminate on a country-by-country basis as patents providing exclusivity for Tamiflu in such countries expire. Roche may terminate the agreement for
any reason in which case all rights to Tamiflu would revert to us. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.      

BMS.  In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration with BMS to develop and commercialize the single-tablet regimen of our Truvada and
BMS s Sustiva in the United States. This combination was approved for use in the United States in July 2006 and is sold under the brand name Atripla. We and BMS structured this collaboration as a joint venture by forming a limited liability
company called Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC. Under the terms of the collaboration, we and BMS granted royalty free sublicenses to the joint venture for the use of our respective company owned technologies and, in return, were
granted a license by the joint venture to use any intellectual property that results from the collaboration. The economic interests of the joint venture held by us and BMS (including share of revenues and out-of-pocket expenses) are based on the
portion of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to Truvada and Sustiva, respectively. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of Sustiva, both our and BMS s respective economic
interests in the joint venture may vary annually. We and BMS share marketing and sales efforts, with both parties providing equivalent sales force efforts at levels agreed to annually by BMS and Gilead. Starting in the second quarter of 2011, except
for a limited number of activities that will be jointly managed, the parties will no longer coordinate detailing and promotional activities in the United States. The parties will continue to collaborate on activities such as manufacturing,
regulatory, compliance and pharmacovigilance. The daily operations of the joint venture are governed by four primary joint committees formed by both BMS and Gilead. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting, tax reporting and product
distribution for the joint venture. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into Canada. The agreement will continue until terminated by the mutual agreement
of the parties. In addition, either party may terminate the other party s participation in the collaboration within 30 days after the launch of at least one generic version of such other party s single agent products (or the double agent
products). The non-terminated party then has the right to continue to sell Atripla and a short-term obligation to pay royalties to the terminated party.         In December 2007, we entered into a collaboration with BMS which sets forth the terms and conditions under which we and BMS commercialize Atripla in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and
Switzerland. Either we, BMS or a third-party distributor act as the selling party in these countries and are responsible for, among other things, receiving and processing customer orders, warehousing product, collecting receivables and handling
returns. Manufacturing of Atripla is coordinated by us, and we are primarily responsible for distribution logistics. In general, the parties share revenues and out-of-pocket expenses in proportion to the net selling prices of Truvada, with respect
to us, and efavirenz, with respect to BMS. The agreement will terminate upon the expiration of the last-to-expire patent which affords market exclusivity to Atripla or one of its components in the European countries covered by the agreement. Prior
to such time, either party may terminate the agreement for any reason, with such termination to be effective in December 2013. The non-terminating party has the right to continue to sell Atripla, but will be obligated to pay the
  
         11   

Table of Contents  

terminating party certain royalties for a three year period following the effective date of the termination. In the event the non-terminating party decides not to sell Atripla, the effective date
of the termination will be the date Atripla is withdrawn in each country or the date on which a third party assumes distribution of Atripla, whichever is earlier.       

GSK.  In March 2006, we sublicensed to GSK exclusive rights to market ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis) under the
name Volibris for PAH in territories outside of the United States. Under the license agreement, we received an up-front payment of $20.0 million and, subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are eligible to receive total additional
milestone payments of $80.0 million. Through December 31, 2010, we have received $45.0 million of such potential milestone payments. In addition, we will receive royalties based on net sales of Volibris in the GSK territories. GSK has an option
to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for Volibris in the GSK territories during the term of the license agreement. Under the agreement, we will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical
development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Letairis and Volibris in the United States, Canada and the European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional development activities in
its territories at its own expense. The parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the licensed field, and each party will pay its share of external costs associated with such joint development. The agreement and
GSK s obligation to pay royalties to us will terminate on a country-by-country basis on the earlier of the date on which generic equivalents sold in a country achieve a certain percentage of total prescriptions for the product plus its generic
equivalents or the fifteenth anniversary of commercial launch in such country. GSK may terminate the agreement for any reason. Upon such termination, all rights to the product would revert to us. Either party may terminate the agreement in response
to a material breach by the other party.           Research Collaborations     
  We currently have a number of collaborations with corporate partners that govern our research and development (R D) of certain
compounds and drug candidates. The following research collaborations are those that are most significant to us from a financial statement perspective and where significant ongoing collaboration activity exists.   

Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco).  In March 2005, we entered into a licensing agreement with Japan Tobacco, under which Japan Tobacco granted
us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco would retain such rights. Under the agreement, we are responsible for seeking
regulatory approval in our territories and are required to use diligent efforts to commercialize a product for the treatment of HIV infection. We will bear all costs and expenses associated with such commercialization efforts. Under the terms of the
agreement, we paid an up-front license fee of $15.0 million and are obligated to make total potential milestone payments of up to $90.0 million upon the achievement of certain clinical, regulatory and commercial objectives. Additionally, we are
obligated to pay royalties based on any net sales in the territories where we market the product. Through December 31, 2010, we have made total milestone payments of $12.0 million. The agreement and our obligation to pay royalties to Japan
Tobacco will terminate on a product-by-product basis as patents providing exclusivity for the product expire or, if later, on the tenth anniversary of commercial launch for such product. We may terminate the agreement for any reason in which case
the license granted by Japan Tobacco to us would terminate. Either party may terminate the agreement in response to a material breach by the other party.      

Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec).  In July 2009, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Tibotec, a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Johnson   Johnson, under which we will develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada and Tibotec s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, TMC278 (25 mg rilpivirine hydrochloride). Under the agreement,
Tibotec granted us an exclusive license to the combination product for administration to adults in a      
         12   

Table of Contents  

once-daily, oral dosage form, worldwide excluding developing world countries and Japan. Neither party is restricted from combining its drugs with any other drugs. We will reimburse Tibotec up to
 71.5 million of Tibotec s development costs for TMC278 and are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and formulate the combination product, including completion of bioequivalence studies. Through
December 31, 2010, we recorded  53.6 million (approximately $74.5 million) in reimbursable R D expenses incurred by Tibotec in the development of TMC278. Tibotec is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop TMC278
and obtain its approval in the United States and Europe. We will manufacture the combination product and assume the lead role in registration, distribution and, subject to regulatory approval, commercialization of the combination product in the
licensed countries. Tibotec will have the right to detail the combination product in the licensed countries, and, at its option, can request that it be the distributor of the combination product in a limited number of such countries. The price of
the combination product is expected to be the sum of the prices of Truvada and TMC278 components. The cost of TMC278 purchased by us from Tibotec for the combination product will approximate the market price of TMC278, less a specified percentage of
up to thirty percent.         Either party may terminate the agreement if the combination product is withdrawn from
the market, if the other party materially breaches the agreement or if certain clinical or regulatory conditions are not met. We may terminate the agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last-to-expire patent for
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in the United States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the last-to-expire patent for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in a country of the European Union. Tibotec may
terminate the agreement in the United States and Canada on or after the expiration of the last to-expire patent for TMC278 in the United States, and may terminate the agreement in any other country on or after the expiration of the
last-to-expire patent for TMC278 in a country of the European Union.       Research and Development    
  Our product development efforts cover a wide range of medical conditions, including HIV/AIDS, liver disease, cardiovascular disease and
respiratory disease.      We have research scientists in Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California; Branford, Connecticut;
and Seattle, Washington, engaged in the discovery and development of new molecules and technologies that we hope will lead to new medicines and novel formulations of existing drugs.   
  Below is a summary of our key product candidates and their corresponding current stages of development. For additional information on our
development pipeline, visit our website at www.gilead.com.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

     Product Candidates for the Treatment of HIV     

Product Candidates    
      
     Description     
 
     Marketing Application Pending    

Truvada/TMC278     Single-Tablet
Regimen   
      
  In September 2010, we announced that we had submitted a new drug application to the European Medicines Agency for marketing approval of the single-tablet regimen of tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate, emtricitabine and TMC278 for the treatment of HIV/AIDS in treatment-naive patients. In November 2010, we submitted a new drug application to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for this single-tablet regimen. In January
2011, we received a  refuse to file  notification from the FDA regarding our application. The FDA requested additional information with respect to the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls section of the application. In February 2011, we
re-filed our new drug application, which included the requested information, and are awaiting the FDA s response as to whether it is substantially complete to permit a substantive review.   

Phase 3    

Cobicistat  
      
  Cobicistat is a pharmacoenhancer that is under evaluation as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines in treatment-na ve patients.   

Elvitegravir  
      
  Elvitegravir is an oral integrase inhibitor that is being evaluated as part of combination therapy for HIV in treatment-experienced patients.   

Integrase  
  Single-Tablet     Regimen
 Quad    
      
  The once-daily, single-tablet  Quad  regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine is under evaluation for the treatment of
HIV/AIDS in treatment-na ve patients.   

Phase 1    

GS 7340  
      
  GS 7340 is a nucleotide reverse transcriptase inhibitor being evaluated for the treatment of HIV/AIDS.         Product Candidates for the Treatment of Liver Diseases         
 
         14   

Table of Contents  

     Product Candidates for the Treatment of Cardiovascular/Metabolic Diseases     

Product Candidates    
      
     Description     
 
     Phase 2    

Cicletanine  
      
  Cicletanine is an oral antihypertensive agent under evaluation for the treatment of PAH.   

Ranolazine  
      
  Ranolazine is a late sodium current inhibitor approved for the treatment of chronic angina, which will also be evaluated for the treatment of coronary artery disease in patients
with diabetes.         Product Candidates for the Treatment of Respiratory Diseases     

Product Candidates    
      
     Description     
 
     Phase 3    

Aztreonam for  
  inhalation solution   
      
  Aztreonam for inhalation solution, approved for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa,  is also being evaluated for the treatment of CF
in patients with  Burkholderia spp .   

Phase 2    

Aztreonam for inhalation solution  
      
  Aztreonam for inhalation solution is also being evaluated for the treatment of bronchiectasis.         Product Candidates for the Treatment of Inflammation/Oncology Diseases         

Product Candidates    
      
     Description     

Phase 1    

GS 6624  
      
  GS 6624 is a monoclonal antibody being evaluated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and solid tumors.    
  In total, our R D expenses for 2010 were $1.07 billion compared with $939.9 million for 2009 and $721.8 million for 2008.   
  In addition to our internal discovery and clinical development programs, we seek to add to our portfolio of products through product
acquisitions. The following table shows some of our recent acquisitions:       

Year    
      
     Company    
      
     Therapeutic area     

2006   
      
  Myogen, Inc.  
      
  Cardiopulmonary disease and other cardiovascular disorders   

2006   
      
  Corus Pharma, Inc.  
      
  Respiratory and infectious diseases   

2008   
      
  Navitas Assets, LLC  
      
  Cicletanine as a potential treatment for PAH   

2009   
      
  CV Therapeutics, Inc.  
      
  Cardiovascular disorders   

2010   
      
  CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  
      
  Serious inflammatory diseases   

2011   
      
  Arresto Biosciences, Inc.  
      
  Fibrotic diseases and cancer       In February
2011, we entered into an agreement to acquire Calistoga Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately-held, biotechnology company focused on the development of medicines to treat cancer and inflammatory diseases.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

    Patents and Proprietary Rights        U.S. and European Patent Expiration       We have a number of U.S. and foreign
patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in
issued patents.      The following table shows the actual or estimated expiration dates in the United States and Europe for the
primary patents and for patents that may issue under pending applications that cover the compounds in our marketed products:       

(1)     
    Supplementary Protection Certificate (SPC) protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confer an auxiliary form of patent
exclusivity until 2016.      

(2)     
    SPC protection has been obtained in certain European countries that confer an auxiliary form of patent exclusivity until 2023.

(3)     
    Patent term extension applied for.      

(4)     
    An SPC can be applied for upon marketing approval in the European Union.      

(5)     
    Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Truvada.      

(6)     
    Based on the European patent expiration date of Viread, one of the components of Atripla.      

(7)     
    Application allowed. An SPC can be applied for upon grant of the European patent.      
   Patent Protection and Certain Challenges       Patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create
competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and
file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. We also rely on trade secrets, internal know-how, technological innovations and agreements with third parties to develop,
maintain and protect our competitive position. Our ability to be competitive will depend on the success of this strategy.   
  Patents covering the active pharmaceutical ingredients of Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis, Vistide and Lexiscan are
held by third parties. We acquired exclusive rights to these patents in the agreements we have with these parties. Patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of Ranexa. Instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release
formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma   
         16   

Table of Contents  

levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they achieve. Patents do not cover the active ingredients in AmBisome. Instead, we hold patents to the
liposomal formulations of this compound and also protect formulations through trade secrets. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China or certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in
Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B, the indication for which Hepsera has been developed.      We may
obtain patents for certain products many years before we obtain marketing approval for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the
patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. For example, extensions for the patents on many of our products have been granted in the United States and in a number of European countries, compensating in part
for delays in obtaining marketing approval. Similar patent term extensions may be available for other products that we are developing, but we cannot be certain we will obtain them.   
  It is also very important that we do not infringe patents or proprietary rights of others and that we do not violate the agreements that
grant proprietary rights to us. If we do infringe patents or violate these agreements, we could be prevented from developing or selling products or from using the processes covered by those patents or agreements, or we could be required to obtain a
license from third parties to allow us to use their technology. We cannot be certain that, if required, we could obtain a license to any third-party technology or that we could obtain one at a reasonable cost. If we were not able to obtain a
required license or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products, and our business could be adversely affected. For example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of
Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis.      Because
patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued, we may not know if our competitors have filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology
that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. If competitors file patent
applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful,
our results of operations may be adversely affected by participation in such events.      Patents relating to pharmaceutical,
biopharmaceutical and biotechnology products, compounds and processes such as those that cover our existing compounds, products and processes and those that we will likely file in the future, do not always provide complete or adequate protection.
Future litigation or re-examination proceedings regarding the enforcement or validity of our existing patents or any future patents could invalidate our patents or substantially reduce their protection. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent
Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active pharmaceutical ingredient in
Atripla, Truvada and Viread. The PTO granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four
patents.      Although we were successful in responding to the PTO actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still
challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the U.S. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision
that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application
for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. This was
the highest level of appeal available to us   
         17   

Table of Contents  

within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority. We cannot predict the outcome of
this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal to the courts of the decision by the patent authority, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil. In 2010, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. Further, we are aware of applications from two generic companies to sell a
generic version of Viread in Brazil. If one or both of these generic applicants are able to compete for this contract for 2011, we would not expect the Brazilian government to purchase any of our HIV products in 2011.   
  As another example, the Patent Office of India initially allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate. However, under Indian civil procedure, prior to the official grant of the allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant the patents. In August 2009, the Indian Patent Office announced that it
had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. We have filed an appeal within the Indian Patent Office Intellectual Property Appellate Board on both of these applications. We cannot predict the outcome
of these proceedings. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal of these decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the Indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in India. In addition, if we are unsuccessful in appealing any further negative decisions by the Indian Patent Office in the Indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the amount of royalties we receive from our Indian generic licenses.      Our pending
patent applications and the patent applications filed by our collaborative partners may not result in the issuance of any patents or may result in patents that do not provide adequate protection. As a result, we may not be able to prevent third
parties from developing compounds or products that are closely related to those which we have developed or are developing. In addition, certain countries in Africa and Asia, including China, do not provide effective enforcement of our patents, and
third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries.       Abbreviated New Drug Applications Filed by
Generic Manufacturers       As part of the approval process of some of our products, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been
granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. In
addition, generic manufacturers have sought and may continue to seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic
drug.      For example, in November 2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva) submitted an ANDA to the FDA
requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use
or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to
manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the notice, Teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was
consolidated with the lawsuit filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting Viread. In January 2010, we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Atripla and Truvada. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four
  
         18   

Table of Contents  

patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. In the notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. In March 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. In March
2010, BMS and Merck filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz.      In June 2010, we
received notice that Lupin Limited (Lupin) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Ranexa. In the notice, Lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with Ranexa are invalid,
unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Lupin s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Ranexa. In July 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Lupin for infringement of our patents for Ranexa.   
  In August 2010, we received notice that Sigmapharm Labs (Sigmapharm) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture
and market a generic version of Hepsera. In the notice, Sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with Hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Sigmapharm s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of
Hepsera. In September 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for Hepsera. One of the patents challenged by Sigmapharm is also being challenged by Ranbaxy, Inc. (Ranbaxy) pursuant to a notice received in October
2010. The patent challenged by Ranbaxy expires in July 2018. We are considering our options for enforcing our patent.      In
February 2011, we received notice that Natco Pharma Limited (Natco) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Tamiflu. In the notice, Natco alleges that a patent associated with Tamiflu is
invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Natco s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Tamiflu. We are currently reviewing the notice letter and have 45 days from the date of receipt to commence a patent infringement
lawsuit against Natco.      We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources
enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Ranexa and Tamiflu in the United
States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents.
      Trade Secrets    
  We also rely on unpatented trade secrets and improvements, unpatented internal know-how and technological innovation. In particular, a
great deal of our liposomal manufacturing expertise, which is a key component of our liposomal technology, is not covered by patents but is instead protected as a trade secret. We protect these rights mainly through confidentiality agreements with
our corporate partners, employees, consultants and vendors. These agreements provide that all confidential information developed or made known to an individual during the course of their relationship with us will be kept confidential and will not be
used or disclosed to third parties except in specified circumstances. In the case of employees, the agreements provide that all inventions made by an individual while employed by us will be our exclusive property. We cannot be certain that these
parties will comply with these confidentiality agreements, that we have adequate remedies for any breach or that our trade secrets will not otherwise become known or be independently discovered by our competitors. Under some of our R D
agreements, inventions become jointly owned by us and our corporate partner and in other cases become the exclusive property of one party. In certain circumstances, it can be difficult to determine who owns a particular invention and disputes could
arise regarding those inventions.   
         19   

Table of Contents  

    Manufacturing and Raw Materials    
  Our manufacturing strategy is to contract with third parties to manufacture the majority of our active pharmaceutical ingredients and
solid dose products. We also rely on our corporate partners to manufacture certain of our products. Additionally, we own manufacturing facilities in San Dimas, California; Edmonton, Alberta, Canada; and Cork, Ireland, where we manufacture certain
products and active pharmaceutical ingredients for clinical and commercial uses.       Manufacturing of our Products    
  We contract with third parties to manufacture certain products for clinical and commercial purposes, including Atripla, Truvada, Viread,
Emtriva, Hepsera, Ranexa, Vistide and Cayston. We use multiple third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in
Atripla and Truvada; and emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Emtriva and one of the active pharmaceutical ingredients in Atripla and Truvada. We rely on a single third-party manufacturer to manufacture the active pharmaceutical
ingredients of Ranexa and Cayston. We are in the process of validating a second manufacturer for Ranexa and Cayston.      We also
rely on third-party contract manufacturers to tablet or capsulate products. For example, we use multiple third-party contract manufacturers to tablet Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera and Ranexa. Emtriva capsulation is also completed by third-party
contract manufacturers. We rely on a single third-party supplier to manufacture Emtriva capsules and Letairis tablets.      We
also have manufacturing agreements with many of our corporate partners. Roche, by itself and through third parties, is responsible for the manufacturing of Tamiflu. Under our agreement with Roche, through a joint manufacturing committee composed of
representatives from Roche and us, we have the opportunity to review Roche s existing manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu. Astellas US LLC, our corporate partner for Lexiscan in the United States, is
responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in the United States and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Lexiscan. PARI Pharma GmbH is responsible for the manufacturing of the device
required to administer Cayston to the lungs of patients. This device is made by a single supplier at a single site.      For our
future products, we will continue to consider developing additional manufacturing capabilities and establishing additional third-party suppliers to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates to undertake clinical trials and to
manufacture sufficient quantities of any product that is approved for commercial sale. If we are unable to develop manufacturing capabilities internally or contract for large scale manufacturing with third parties on acceptable terms for our future
products, our ability to conduct large scale clinical trials and meet customer demand for commercial products will be adversely affected.   
   Our Manufacturing Facilities       At our San Dimas facility, we manufacture, fill and package products. We manufacture AmBisome and Cayston exclusively at this facility. We depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which
is used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas under our manufacturing agreements with Eyetech and Pfizer. Eyetech currently provides us with pegaptanib sodium, the active pharmaceutical
ingredient in Macugen. We also fill and package drug product for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera and Ranexa in their finished forms at our facilities in San Dimas. In the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or
other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture AmBisome, Cayston and Macugen to meet market needs.   
  At our Edmonton, Alberta facility, we carry out process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, manufacture active
pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and   
         20   

Table of Contents  

conduct chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes. In addition, we utilize this site for the manufacture of emtricitabine. We also manufacture the
active pharmaceutical ingredients in Vistide, Letairis and Hepsera exclusively at our Edmonton site, although another supplier is qualified to make the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Letairis.   
  We fill and package drug product for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva, Cayston and Hepsera in their finished forms at our facilities in
Cork, Ireland. We also perform quality control testing, final labeling and packaging of AmBisome and final release of many of our products for the European Union and elsewhere at this facility. We utilize our Cork, Ireland facility primarily for
solid dose tablet manufacturing of certain of our antiviral products, as well as product packaging activities. We distribute our products to the European Union and other international markets from our Dublin, Ireland site.   
   Third-party Manufacturers    
  Our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and
financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of our third-party manufacturers or our corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause
delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.   
  We believe the technology we use to manufacture our products is proprietary. For products manufactured by our third-party contract
manufacturers, we have disclosed all necessary aspects of this technology to enable them to manufacture the products for us. We have agreements with these third-party manufacturers that are intended to restrict these manufacturers from using or
revealing this technology, but we cannot be certain that these third-party manufacturers will comply with these restrictions. In addition, these third-party manufacturers could develop their own technology related to the work they perform for us
that we may need to manufacture our products. We could be required to enter into additional agreements with these third-party manufacturers if we want to use that technology ourselves or allow another manufacturer to use that technology. The
third-party manufacturer could refuse to allow us to use their technology or could demand terms to use their technology that are not acceptable to us.       Regulation of Manufacturing Process       The manufacturing process for
pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to current Good
Manufacturing Practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. Similar regulations are in effect in other
countries.      In January and February 2010, the FDA conducted a routine inspection of our San Dimas, California, manufacturing
and distribution facility, where we manufacture AmBisome and Cayston, fill and finish Macugen, and package solid dosage form products. At the conclusion of that inspection, the FDA issued Form 483 Inspectional Observations stating concerns over: the
maintenance of aseptic processing conditions in the manufacturing suite for our AmBisome product; environmental maintenance issues in the San Dimas warehousing facility; batch sampling; and the timeliness of completion of annual product quality
reports. On September 24, 2010, our San Dimas manufacturing facility received a Warning Letter from the FDA further detailing the FDA s concerns over the AmBisome manufacturing environment, including control systems and monitoring,
procedures to prevent microbiological contamination and preventative cleaning and equipment maintenance. Referencing certain Viread lots, the letter also stated concerns connected with quality procedures, controls and investigation procedures, and a
generalized concern over the effectiveness of the San Dimas quality unit in carrying out its responsibilities.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

   In November and December 2010, the FDA re-inspected the San Dimas facility. The
re-inspection closed with no additional Form 483 observations. Consequently, we believe that we have addressed the FDA s concerns as stated in the Form 483 observations and the Warning Letter, but we are awaiting confirmation of acceptance from
the FDA.      Unless and until we receive confirmation from the FDA that it is satisfied we have corrected outstanding issues, the
FDA may withhold permission to export AmBisome and Cayston manufactured at San Dimas to certain countries outside the United States and Europe. The FDA may also withhold approval of pending drug applications listing the San Dimas facility. Since, as
required, we have notified appropriate international regulatory authorities of the letter s issuance, it is possible that the letter may impact our ability to supply our aseptic products manufactured at San Dimas (AmBisome, Cayston and Macugen)
outside the United States. If as a result of a Warning Letter, we are unable to receive export or regulatory approvals for AmBisome or any other products at issue, we may be unable to sell sufficient quantities of these products to meet market
demand, which would decrease our revenues and harm our business. We do not believe the Warning Letter will impact our ability to supply any of the solid dosage form products that we package at the San Dimas facility, which include Atripla, Truvada,
Viread, Emtriva, Hepsera, Letairis and Ranexa. In the event our solid dosage form products were affected, we have alternate sites from which we could supply such products       Access to Supplies and Materials       We need access to certain supplies and
products to manufacture our products. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason or if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of raw materials used to manufacture our products, we may be unable to ship
certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our product candidates in development for clinical trials. For example, a significant portion of the raw materials and intermediates used to manufacture our HIV products (Atripla, Truvada,
Viread and Emtriva) are supplied by Chinese-based companies. As a result, an international trade dispute between China and the United States or any other actions by the Chinese government that would limit or prevent Chinese companies from supplying
these materials would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our HIV products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results.       Seasonal Operations and Backlog       Our worldwide product sales do not reflect
any significant degree of seasonality. However, our royalty revenues, which represented about 7% of our total revenues in 2010 and consisted primarily of Tamiflu royalties, are affected by seasonality. Royalty revenue that we recognize from
Roche s sales of Tamiflu can be impacted by the severity of flu seasons and product delivery in response to the H1N1 influenza pandemic.      For the most part, we operate in markets characterized by short lead times and the absence of significant backlogs. We do not believe that backlog information is material to our business as a whole.
      Government Regulation       Our operations and activities are subject to extensive regulation by numerous government authorities in the United States and other countries. In the United States, drugs are subject to rigorous FDA
regulation. The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act and other federal and state statutes and regulations govern the testing, manufacture, safety, efficacy, labeling, storage, record keeping, approval, advertising and promotion of our products. As a
result of these regulations, product development and product approval processes are very expensive and time consuming.      The
FDA must approve a drug before it can be sold in the United States. The general process for this approval is as follows:   
         22   

Table of Contents  

    Preclinical Testing       Before we can test a drug candidate in humans, we must study the drug in laboratory experiments and in animals to generate data to support the drug candidate s potential benefits and safety. We
submit this data to the FDA in an investigational new drug (IND) application seeking its approval to test the compound in humans.       Clinical
Trials       If the FDA accepts the investigational new drug application, the drug candidate can then be studied in human
clinical trials to determine if the drug candidate is safe and effective. These clinical trials involve three separate phases that often overlap, can take many years and are very expensive. These three phases, which are subject to considerable
regulation, are as follows:       

Phase 1. The drug candidate is given to a small number of healthy human control subjects or patients suffering from the indicated disease, to test for
safety, dose tolerance, pharmacokinetics, metabolism, distribution and excretion.          

Phase 2. The drug candidate is given to a limited patient population to determine the effect of the drug candidate in treating the disease, the best
dose of the drug candidate, and the possible side effects and safety risks of the drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 1 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous Phase 2 clinical trials.

Phase 3. If a drug candidate appears to be effective and safe in Phase 2 clinical trials, Phase 3 clinical trials are commenced to confirm those
results. Phase 3 clinical trials are conducted over a longer term, involve a significantly larger population, are conducted at numerous sites in different geographic regions and are carefully designed to provide reliable and conclusive data
regarding the safety and benefits of a drug candidate. It is not uncommon for a drug candidate that appears promising in Phase 2 clinical trials to fail in the more rigorous and extensive Phase 3 clinical trials.      
   FDA Approval Process    
  When we believe that the data from the Phase 3 clinical trials show an adequate level of safety and efficacy, we submit the appropriate
filing, usually in the form of a new drug application (NDA) or supplemental NDA, with the FDA seeking approval to sell the drug candidate for a particular use. The FDA may hold a public hearing where an independent advisory committee of expert
advisors asks additional questions and makes recommendations regarding the drug candidate. This committee makes a recommendation to the FDA that is not binding but is generally followed by the FDA. If the FDA agrees that the compound has met the
required level of safety and efficacy for a particular use, it will allow us to sell the drug candidate in the United States for that use. It is not unusual, however, for the FDA to reject an application because it believes that the drug candidate
is not safe enough or efficacious enough or because it does not believe that the data submitted is reliable or conclusive.      At
any point in this process, the development of a drug candidate can be stopped for a number of reasons including safety concerns and lack of treatment benefit. We cannot be certain that any clinical trials that we are currently conducting or any that
we conduct in the future will be completed successfully or within any specified time period. We may choose, or the FDA may require us, to delay or suspend our clinical trials at any time if it appears that the patients are being exposed to an
unacceptable health risk or if the drug candidate does not appear to have sufficient treatment benefit.      The FDA may also
require Phase 4 non-registrational studies to explore scientific questions to further characterize safety and efficacy during commercial use of our drug. The FDA may also require us to provide additional data or information, improve our
manufacturing processes, procedures or facilities or may require extensive surveillance to monitor the safety or benefits of our product candidates if it determines that our filing does not contain adequate evidence of the safety and benefits of the
drug. In addition, even if the FDA approves a drug, it could limit the uses of the drug. The FDA can withdraw approvals if it does not believe that we are complying with regulatory standards or if problems are uncovered or occur after approval.
  
         23   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to obtaining FDA approval for each drug, we obtain FDA approval of the
manufacturing facilities for any drug we sell, including those of companies who manufacture our drugs for us. All of these facilities are subject to periodic inspections by the FDA. The FDA must also approve foreign establishments that manufacture
products to be sold in the United States and these facilities are subject to periodic regulatory inspection. Our manufacturing facilities located in California, including our San Dimas facilities, also must be licensed by the State of California in
compliance with local regulatory requirements. Our manufacturing facilities located in Canada, including our Edmonton, Alberta facility, and our facilities located near Dublin and in Cork, Ireland, also must obtain local licenses and permits in
compliance with local regulatory requirements.      Drugs that treat serious or life threatening diseases and conditions that are
not adequately addressed by existing drugs, and for which the development program is designed to address the unmet medical need, may be designated as fast track candidates by the FDA and may be eligible for accelerated and priority review. Drugs for
the treatment of HIV infection that are designated for use under the U.S. President s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief may also qualify for an expedited or priority review. Viread, Truvada and Atripla received accelerated approval and priority
reviews. Drugs receiving accelerated approval must be monitored in post-marketing clinical trials in order to confirm the safety and benefits of the drug.      Drugs are also subject to extensive regulation outside of the United States. In the European Union, there is a centralized approval procedure that authorizes marketing of a product in all countries of the
European Union (which includes most major countries in Europe). If this centralized approval procedure is not used, approval in one country of the European Union can be used to obtain approval in another country of the European Union under one of
two simplified application processes: the mutual recognition procedure or the decentralized procedure, both of which rely on the principle of mutual recognition. After receiving regulatory approval through any of the European registration
procedures, separate pricing and reimbursement approvals are also required in most countries.       Pricing and Reimbursement    
  Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for
the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or
potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative
products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. In addition, changes from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and health care
reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability.      Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the United States. There have been significant changes to the
federal Medicare system in recent years in the United States that could impact the pricing of our products. Under the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003, Medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for
prescription drugs under Medicare Part D. The prescription drug program began on January 1, 2006 and although we have benefited from patients transitioning from Medicaid to Medicare Part D since 2006, the longer term impact of Medicare Part D
on our business is not clear, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the
extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. Third-party payers providing Medicare Part D coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, discussions are taking place
at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare pricing. The
  
         24   

Table of Contents  

increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for Medicare Part D enrollees. Further, Medicare patients have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products
are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. In addition to federal Medicare proposals, state Medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. To the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow
Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules.      In Europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European
countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. Reimbursement policies may
adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates,
revenue-related taxes and profit control, and they expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts
required on our products, and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. For example, in June
2010, Spain imposed an incremental discount on all branded drugs and in August 2010, Germany increased the rebate on prescription pharmaceuticals. Other countries have recently imposed or could impose similar discounts on our products. As generic
drugs come to market, we may face price decreases for our products in some countries in the European Union.      Government
agencies also issue regulations and guidelines directly applicable to us and to our products. In addition, from time to time, professional societies, practice management groups, private health/science foundations and organizations publish guidelines
or recommendations directed to certain health care and patient communities. Such recommendations and guidelines may relate to such matters as product usage, dosage, route of administration, and use of related or competing therapies and can
consequently result in increased or decreased usage of our products. For example, recent HIV treatment guidelines in the United States and abroad have endorsed earlier diagnosis and treatment.   
   United States Healthcare Reform       In March 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the United States. As a result, we are required to further rebate or discount products reimbursed or paid for by various public payers,
including Medicaid and other entities eligible to purchase discounted products through the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act, such as AIDS Drug Assistance Programs (ADAPs). The discounts, rebates and fees in the
legislation that impacted us include:       

effective January 1, 2010, our minimum base rebate amount owed to Medicaid on products reimbursed by Medicaid was increased by 8%, and the
discounts or rebates we owe to ADAPs and other Public Health Service entities which reimburse or purchase our products were also increased by 8%;          

effective March 23, 2010, we are required to extend rebates to patients receiving our products through Medicaid managed care organizations;

effective January 1, 2011, we are required to provide a 50% discount on products sold to patients while they are in the Medicare Part D
 donut hole;  and          

effective 2011, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of a new industry fee (also
known as the pharmaceutical excise tax), calculated based on select government sales during the 2010 calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales.      
         25   

Table of Contents  

   Starting in 2014, as the number of people with access to healthcare coverage is expected to
increase, we could experience a positive impact on the sales of our products. Further, the expansion of healthcare coverage may decrease the reliance of patients on state ADAPs that currently rely on the availability of federal and state funding.
     The full impact of healthcare reform for 2010 was a reduction of approximately $200 million in U.S. net product sales. The
majority of this impact began in the third quarter and continued throughout the fourth quarter of 2010 since some of the new discount and rebate requirements took two quarters to fully take effect. For 2011, excluding the impact of the new
pharmaceutical excise tax, we estimate that the impact of healthcare reform on product sales will be approximately 5 6% of our U.S. net product sales.      Many of the specific determinations necessary to implement the healthcare reform legislation have yet to be decided and communicated by the federal government. For example, we do not know how many or how
quickly patients receiving our product under the Medicare Part D program will reach the  donut hole  or how details of the pharmaceutical excise tax will be calculated. Based on the information that we have to date, we estimate the 2011
impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be between $30-50 million, which will be classified as selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense. The excise tax is not tax deductible. In calculating the anticipated financial impacts of
healthcare reform described above, we made several estimates and assumptions with respect to our expected payer mix and how the reforms will be implemented.       Health Care Fraud and Abuse Laws       We are subject to various federal and
state laws pertaining to health care  fraud and abuse,  including anti-kickback laws and false claims laws. Anti-kickback laws make it illegal for a prescription drug manufacturer to solicit, offer, receive or pay any remuneration in
exchange for, or to induce, the referral of business, including the purchase or prescription of a particular drug. Due to the breadth of the statutory provisions and the increasing attention being given to them by law enforcement authorities, it is
possible that certain of our practices may be challenged under anti-kickback or similar laws. False claims laws prohibit anyone from knowingly and willingly presenting, or causing to be presented for payment to third-party payers (including Medicare
and Medicaid), claims for reimbursed drugs or services that are false or fraudulent, claims for items or services not provided as claimed or claims for medically unnecessary items or services. Our sales and marketing activities may be subject to
scrutiny under these laws. Violations of fraud and abuse laws may be punishable by criminal and/or civil sanctions, including fines and civil monetary penalties, as well as the possibility of exclusion from federal health care programs (including
Medicare and Medicaid). If the government were to allege against or convict us of violating these laws, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations.       Compulsory Licenses       In a number of developing countries, government
officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to
allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products
and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread. This was the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the
action of the Brazilian patent authority. If we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly
reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil. In 2010, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. We are aware of applications from two generic companies to sell a generic version of Viread in Brazil. If one or
both of   
         26   

Table of Contents  

these generic applicants are able to compete for this contract for 2011, we would not expect the Brazilian government to purchase any of our HIV products in 2011.   
  In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu and H1N1 influenza pandemic have
generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to
eligible developing and least developed countries under Canada s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to
Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our
Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement
of our patents, and third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our
results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales.   
   Employees       As of
January 31, 2011, we had approximately 4,000 full-time employees. We believe we have good relations with our employees.       Environment,
Health and Safety       We seek to comply with all applicable statutory and administrative requirements concerning environmental
quality and worker health and safety. We have made, and will continue to make, expenditures for environmental compliance and protection. Such expenditures have not had, and are not expected to have, a material effect on our capital expenditures,
results of operations or competitive position.      We are voluntarily assessing our greenhouse gas emissions, and have begun to
take action to reduce such emissions, for example through establishing employee commuter programs and evaluating the energy efficiency of our buildings. Various laws and regulations have been implemented or are under consideration to mitigate the
effects of climate change caused by greenhouse gas emissions. For example, the California Air Resources Board is in the process of drafting regulations to meet state emissions targets. Based on current information and subject to the finalization of
the proposed regulations, we believe that our primary risk related to climate change is the risk of increased energy costs. However, because we are not an energy intensive business, we do not anticipate being subject to a cap and trade system or any
other mitigation measures that would likely be material to our capital expenditures, results of operations or competitive position.      We are also subject to other federal, state and local regulations regarding workplace safety and protection of the environment. We use hazardous materials, chemicals, viruses and various radioactive
compounds in our R D activities and cannot eliminate the risk of accidental contamination or injury from these materials. Certain misuse or accidents involving these materials could lead to significant litigation, fines and penalties.
      Other Information       We are subject to the information requirements of the Exchange Act. Therefore, we file periodic reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Such reports, proxy statements and other
information may be obtained by visiting the Public Reference Room of the SEC at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549 or by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330, by sending an electronic message to the SEC at publicinfo@sec.gov or by sending a fax
to the SEC at 1-202-777-1027. In addition, the SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

   The mailing address of our headquarters is 333 Lakeside Drive, Foster City, California
94404, and our telephone number at that location is 650-574-3000. Our website is www.gilead.com. Through a link on the  Investors  section of our website (under  SEC Filings  in the  Financial Information  section), we
make available the following filings as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with or furnished to the SEC: our Annual Reports on Form 10-K; Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q; Current Reports on Form 8-K; and any amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act. All such filings are available free of charge upon request.       

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS          In
evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. A manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business,
results of operations and financial condition. We note these factors for investors as permitted by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. It is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not
consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face.        A substantial
portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our HIV products, particularly Atripla and Truvada. If we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of these products, our results of operations may be adversely affected.    
  We are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of HIV infection, particularly Atripla and Truvada, to support our
existing operations. Our HIV products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. Were the treatment paradigm for HIV to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to
fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our HIV product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (R D)
efforts. For the year ended December 31, 2010, Atripla and Truvada product sales together were $5.58 billion, or 70% of our total revenues. We may not be able to sustain the growth rate of sales of our HIV products, especially Atripla and
Truvada, for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following:       

As our HIV products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are
conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product,
each of which could reduce our revenues.          

As our HIV products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which
increases pressure on us to reduce prices.          

A large part of the market for our HIV products consists of patients who are already taking other HIV drugs. If we are not successful in encouraging
physicians to change patients  regimens to include our HIV products, the sales of our HIV products will be limited.          

As generic HIV products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected.
         If we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future
revenues may be adversely affected.       If we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing
products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our R D efforts. Drug development is inherently risky and many product candidates fail during the drug development process. For example, in April
2010, we announced our decision to terminate our Phase 2b clinical trial of GS 9450 for the treatment of chronic   
         28   

Table of Contents  

hepatitis C. In January 2011, we announced our decision to terminate our Phase 3 clinical trial of ambrisentan in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. In addition, in January 2011,
we received a  refuse to file  notification from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) regarding our new drug application (NDA) for the single-tablet regimen of Truvada and Tibotec Pharmaceuticals  investigational TMC278 for the
treatment of HIV-1 infection in adults. The FDA requested additional information with respect to the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls section of the NDA. In February 2011, we re-filed our new drug application, which included the requested
information, and are awaiting the FDA s response as to whether it is substantially complete to permit a substantive review. If the FDA remains unsatisfied with the completeness of our application, our NDA may not be approved or our timeline for
obtaining regulatory approval for the product, if granted, may be further delayed.       A portion of our pre-tax income is derived from royalty
revenue recognized from sales of Tamiflu by Roche. If sales of Tamiflu were to decrease, our pre-tax income will be disproportionately and adversely affected.       F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu worldwide for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. We
recognized $386.5 million in royalty revenue for the year ended December 31, 2010 related to royalties received from sales of Tamiflu by Roche. Although such royalty revenue represented approximately 5% of our total revenues in 2010, it
represented approximately 10% of our pre-tax income during the period. Roche s Tamiflu sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. Tamiflu royalties increased sharply in 2009 and
the first quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. Tamiflu royalties declined sharply in the second quarter of 2010 due to the fulfillment of many of the existing pandemic orders from governments and
corporations. Based on Roche s reported sales of Tamiflu for the three months ended December 31, 2010, we expect Tamiflu royalties to be approximately $13.3 million in the first quarter of 2011. We recognize royalties on Tamiflu sales by
Roche in the quarter following the quarter in which Tamiflu is sold. As sales of Tamiflu decrease, our royalty revenues will decrease and our pre-tax income will decrease disproportionately. Any such decrease could be material and could adversely
impact our operating results.       Our results of operations will be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare reforms.
      Legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively
frequently in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. In March 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the United States. As a result, we are required to further rebate or discount products reimbursed or paid for by various public
payers, including Medicaid and other entities eligible to purchase discounted products through the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act, such as ADAPs. The discounts, rebates and fees in the legislation that impacted us
include:       

effective January 1, 2010, our minimum base rebate amount owed to Medicaid on products reimbursed by Medicaid has been increased by 8%, and the
discounts or rebates we owe to ADAPs and other Public Health Service entities which reimburse or purchase our products have also been increased by 8%;          

effective March 23, 2010, we are required to extend rebates to patients receiving our products through Medicaid managed care organizations;

effective January 1, 2011, we are required to provide a 50% discount on products sold to patients while they are in the Medicare Part D  donut
hole;  and          

effective 2011, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of a new industry fee (also
known as the pharmaceutical excise tax), calculated based on select government sales during the 2010 calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales.      
  For 2011, excluding the impact of the new pharmaceutical excise tax, we estimate that the impact of healthcare reform on product sales
will be approximately 5 6% of our U.S. net product sales.   
         29   

Table of Contents  

   Many of the specific determinations necessary to implement the healthcare reform legislation
have yet to be decided and communicated by the federal government. For example, we do not know how many or how quickly patients receiving our product under the Medicare Part D program will reach the  donut hole  or how details of the
pharmaceutical excise tax will be calculated and reflected in our financial results. Based on the information that we have to date, we estimate the 2011 impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be between $30-50 million, which will be
classified as selling, general and administrative (SG A) expense. The excise tax is not tax deductible. In calculating the anticipated financial impacts of healthcare reform described above, we made several estimates and assumptions with respect
to our expected payer mix and how the reforms will be implemented.      Further, even though not addressed in the healthcare
reform legislation, discussions continue at the federal level on legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for Medicare
Part D pricing.      In addition, state Medicaid programs could request additional supplemental rebates on our products as a
result of the increase in the federal base Medicaid rebate. Private insurers could also use the enactment of these increased rebates to exert pricing pressure on our products, and to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow
Medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules.       Our
existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. Pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability.    
  Successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for
the cost of such products and related treatments. Government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. In the United States, the European Union and other significant or
potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative
products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. For example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. In addition,
state ADAPs, which purchase a significant portion of our HIV products, rely on federal, supplemental federal and state funding to help fund purchases of our products. If federal and state funds are not available in amounts sufficient to support the
number of patients that rely on ADAPs, as one state is currently experiencing, sales of our HIV products could be negatively impacted which would reduce our revenues. Further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the United States and on
country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the European Union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales and profitability. These pressures can arise from
rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general.   
  In Europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining
and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many European countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. In addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay
commercialization by 12 months or more. Reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. In many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including
through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and they expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase.   
  Recently, many countries in the European Union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and these efforts could
continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the European Union. For example, in   
         30   

Table of Contents  

June 2010, Spain imposed an incremental discount on all branded drugs and in August 2010, Germany increased the rebate on prescription pharmaceuticals. Other countries have recently imposed or
could impose similar discounts on our products. As generic drugs come to market, we may face price decreases for our products in some countries in the European Union.       Approximately 44% of our product sales occur outside the United States, and currency fluctuations and hedging expenses may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.
      Because a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the Euro, we face
exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely, when the U.S. dollar
weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increases. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S. dollar relative to
those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.      We use foreign currency exchange forward and
option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the Euro. We also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our
exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. We cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the U.S. dollar. If the U.S. dollar appreciates
significantly against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results of operations will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline.   
  Additionally, the expenses that we recognize in relation to our hedging activities can also cause our earnings to fluctuate. The level of
hedging expenses that we recognize in a particular period is impacted by the changes in interest rate spreads between the foreign currencies that we hedge and the U.S. dollar.       Our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers, pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult
for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price.       In 2010, approximately 82% of our product sales in the United States were to three wholesalers, Cardinal Health, Inc., McKesson Corp. and AmerisourceBergen Corp. The U.S. wholesalers with whom we have
entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand. As a result, changes in inventory levels held by those
wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. In addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no
inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. Adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from wholesalers
and, consequently, the wholesalers  orders from us, even if end user demand has not changed. For example, during the second quarter of 2009, the wholesalers increased their inventory levels for Atripla and Truvada, while inventory levels for
Viread decreased. In the third quarter of 2009, the wholesalers drew down on their inventory such that inventory levels for Atripla and Truvada at the end of the third quarter of 2009 were more consistent with the levels held during the first
quarter of 2009. As inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see fluctuations in our earnings and a mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our revenues.   
  In addition, the non-retail sector in the United States, which includes government institutions, including state ADAPs, correctional
facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent   
         31   

Table of Contents  

in terms of buying patterns and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror patient demand. For example, in the first quarter of 2010, non-retail purchases,
driven by certain state ADAPs, were lower as a percentage of their federal ADAP fiscal year purchases compared to the first quarters of 2008 and 2009. We believe this decrease was driven by higher purchasing patterns observed during the last three
quarters of 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. The annual grant cycles for federal and state ADAP funds may cause ADAP purchasing patterns to not reflect patient demand, and we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the
purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our product sales, revenues and earnings in the future.      In light of the global economic downturn and budget crises faced by many Europe countries, we have observed variations in purchasing patterns induced by cost containment measures in Europe. We believe
these measures have caused some purchasers to reduce inventory of our products in the distribution channels, and in some cases, even at the patient level, which has decreased our revenues and caused fluctuations in our product sales and earnings. We
may continue to see this trend in the future.       We face significant competition.    
  We face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources
than we do. In addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. Our HIV products compete primarily with products from the joint venture established by GSK and Pfizer which
markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with Atripla and Truvada.      For example, lamivudine, marketed by this
joint venture, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Emtriva and a component of both Atripla and Truvada. In May 2010, the compound patent covering Epivir (lamivudine) itself expired in the United States and we
expect to see generic lamivudine in the United States in the near future. Generic lamivudine has been available in Spain since March 2010. We expect that generic versions of lamivudine will be launched in other countries within the European Union as
early as the first quarter of 2011.      For Hepsera and Viread for treatment of chronic hepatitis B, we compete primarily with
products produced by GSK, BMS and Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation (Novartis) in the United States, the European Union and China. For AmBisome, we compete primarily with products produced by Merck and Pfizer. In addition, we are aware of at
least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to AmBisome becoming available outside of the United States, including the possible entry of one such formulation in Greece. These formulations may reduce market demand for AmBisome. Furthermore,
the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin B is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of AmBisome may be negatively impacted by association. Letairis competes directly with a product produced by
Actelion Pharmaceuticals US, Inc. (Actelion) and indirectly with pulmonary arterial hypertension products from United Therapeutics Corporation and Pfizer. Ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs,
beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates for the treatment of chronic angina in the United States. Cayston competes with a product marketed by Novartis. Tamiflu competes with products sold by GSK and generic competitors.
     In addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our existing
products or research programs. These competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. Furthermore, academic institutions,
government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs.   
         32   

Table of Contents  

    If significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales
may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations.       The data supporting the marketing approvals for
our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. As our products are used over longer periods of time by many
patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on
our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products.      Our
product Letairis, which was approved by the FDA in June 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs) which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. Because of these
risks, Letairis is available only through the Letairis Education and Access Program (LEAP), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of
the product. As the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with Letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of Letairis which may decrease demand for
the product.      If serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these
products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected.       Our
operations depend on compliance with complex FDA and comparable international regulations. Failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products.    
  The products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive
regulation by the FDA, the European Medicines Agency and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. We are continuing clinical trials for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva, AmBisome, Letairis, Ranexa and Cayston for currently
approved and additional uses. We anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. These products may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a
timely basis, or at all.      Further, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to
extensive regulation and review. Discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from
the market. If we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. For example, on
September 24, 2010, our San Dimas manufacturing facility received a Warning Letter from the FDA. See the Risk Factor entitled  Manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our
results of operations.       On September 27, 2007, President Bush signed into law the Food and Drug Administration
Amendments Act of 2007, which significantly expanded the FDA s authority, including, among other things, to:       

require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify
an unexpected serious risk;          

mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product s lifecycle, based on new safety information; and      

require sponsors to implement a Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a
communication plan to healthcare providers or      
         33   

Table of Contents  

other elements as the FDA deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product.      
  Failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the FDA, could result in significant civil monetary
penalties and our operating results may be adversely affected.       The results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain
and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth.       We are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. The results from preclinical and early
clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. Even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. If any of our product candidates fails to achieve its
primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or
halted. For example, in April 2010, we announced our decision to terminate our Phase 2b clinical trial of GS 9450 for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C. In addition, we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. If the clinical
trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. For example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including
elvitegravir, our novel HIV integrase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV infection; and the fixed-dose regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat and Truvada for the treatment of HIV in treatment-na ve patients; each currently in Phase 3 clinical
trials that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. These risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our
clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain FDA and other regulatory body approvals. As a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. Further, we may make a strategic decision to
discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. If these programs and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or
at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. In addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and
harm our business.       Due to our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to
directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials.       We extensively outsource our clinical
trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. We rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (CROs) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site
identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. Many important aspects of the services performed for us by the CROs are out of our direct control. If there is any dispute or
disruption in our relationship with our CROs, our clinical trials may be delayed. Moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party CROs. If any of our CROs  processes,
methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted.       We depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. Failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these
companies could negatively impact our business.       We rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major
pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. These include collaborations with BMS for Atripla in the United States, Europe and Canada; Roche for Tamiflu worldwide; and GSK for ambrisentan in territories
outside   
         34   

Table of Contents  

of the United States. In some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva and AmBisome. Some of these relationships also involve the clinical
development of these products by our partners. Reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the risk that:       

we are unable to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products;      

disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners;      

disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product
candidates or result in litigation or arbitration;          

contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails
to perform;          

our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative
technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors;          

our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products
than they do to products of their own development; and          

our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions.
        Given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future
collaborative efforts. If these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline.      Under our April 2002 licensing agreement with GSK, we gave GSK the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of Hepsera in territories in Asia, Africa and Latin America.
These include major markets for Hepsera, such as China, Japan, Taiwan and South Korea. In November 2009, we entered into an agreement with GSK that provided GSK with exclusive commercialization rights and registration responsibilities for Viread for
the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in China. In October 2010, we granted similar rights to GSK in Japan and Saudi Arabia. The success of Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in these territories depends almost entirely on
the efforts of GSK. In this regard, GSK promotes Epivir-HBV/Zeffix, a product that competes with Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B. Consequently, GSK s marketing strategy for Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of
chronic hepatitis B may be influenced by its promotion of Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. We receive royalties from GSK equal to a percentage of GSK s net sales of Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B as well as net sales of
GSK s Epivir-HBV/Zeffix. If GSK fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing Hepsera or Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in its territories, our potential revenues in these
territories may be substantially reduced.      In addition, Cayston and Letairis are distributed through third-party specialty
pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. The use of specialty pharmacies requires
significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will:   

not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints;      

not effectively sell or support Cayston or Letairis;          

not devote the resources necessary to sell Cayston or Letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect;      
         35   

Table of Contents  

not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or      

cease operations.         We also rely on a third party to administer LEAP, the restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis. This third party provides information and education to
prescribers and patients on the risks of Letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for Letairis by the FDA
and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third-party specialty pharmacies. Failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute Letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from
the FDA or decreased Letairis sales, either of which would harm our business.      Further, Cayston may only be taken by patients
using a specific inhalation device that delivers the drug to the lungs of patients. Our ongoing distribution of Cayston is entirely reliant upon the manufacturer of that device. For example, the manufacturer could encounter other issues
with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device. In addition, the manufacturer may not be able to provide adequate warranty support for the device after it has been distributed to
patients. With respect to distribution of the drug and device to patients, we are reliant on the capabilities of specialty pharmacies. For example, the distribution channel for drug and device is complicated and requires
coordination. The reimbursement approval processes associated with both drug and device are similarly complex. If the device manufacturer is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales
of Cayston may be adversely affected. Any of the previously described issues may limit the sales of Cayston, which would adversely affect our financial results.       Expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price.       The clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. It is difficult to accurately predict or
control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter, and the FDA and/or other regulatory agencies may require more clinical testing than we originally anticipated. Uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our
operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline.       Our success will depend to a significant degree
on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. We may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies
could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology.       Patents and other proprietary rights are very
important to our business. Our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to:       

obtain patents and licenses to patent rights;          

preserve trade secrets; and          

operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others.      
  If we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create
competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. As part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the United States and internationally and
file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology.      We
have a number of U.S. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide
  
         36   

Table of Contents  

adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. Patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued. As a result, we may not
know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. Competitors may have filed patent applications or
received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our products. In addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings
or litigation to determine the right to a patent. Litigation and interference proceedings are unpredictable and expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events.
     From time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. For example, in 2007, the Public Patent
Foundation filed requests for re-examination with the United States Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in Atripla, Truvada and Viread. The PTO
granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. In 2008, the PTO confirmed the patentability of all four patents.   
  Although we were successful in responding to the PTO actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents
in foreign jurisdictions. For example, in April 2008, the Brazilian Health Ministry, citing the U.S. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the Brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of
our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in Brazil. In August 2008, an examiner in the Brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil
fumarate we have filed in Brazil. We then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. This was the highest level of
appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority. We cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate patent application. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal to the courts of the decision by the patent authority, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly
reduce our sales of HIV products in Brazil. In 2010, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. We are aware of applications from two generic companies to sell a generic version of Viread in Brazil. If one or
both of these generic applicants are able to compete for this contract for 2011, we would not expect the Brazilian government to purchase any of our HIV products in 2011.      As another example, the Patent Office of India initially allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. However, under Indian civil procedure, prior to the official
grant of the allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant the patents. In August 2009, the Indian Patent Office announced that it had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the
patents to be granted. We have filed an appeal within the Indian Patent Office Intellectual Property Appellate Board on both of these applications. We cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. If we are unsuccessful in our appeal of these
decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the Indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. In the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in India. In addition, if we are
unsuccessful in appealing any further negative decisions by the Indian Patent Office in the Indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the amount of royalties we
receive from our Indian generic licenses.      Patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of Ranexa. Instead, when it
was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they achieve. Patents do not cover the active
ingredients in AmBisome. In addition, we do not have patent filings in China or certain other Asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in Hepsera. Asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis B, the
indication for which Hepsera has been developed.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

   We may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained
for those products. Because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. However, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions in
some countries.      As part of the approval process of some of our products, the FDA granted an exclusivity period during which
other manufacturers  applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. Generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the
end of the exclusivity period. From time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. Generic manufacturers have sought and may continue to
seek FDA approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (ANDA), the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug.   
  For example, in November 2008, we received notice that Teva Pharmaceuticals (Teva) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to
manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic
version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a
generic version of Atripla. In the notice, Teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit
filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate
patents protecting Viread. In January 2010, we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Atripla and Truvada. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two
additional patents related to emtricitabine. In the notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. In March
2010, we filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. In March 2010, BMS and Merck filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz.   
  In June 2010, we received notice that Lupin Limited (Lupin) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market
a generic version of Ranexa. In the notice, Lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with Ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Lupin s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Ranexa. In July 2010,
we filed a lawsuit against Lupin for infringement of our patents for Ranexa.      In August 2010, we received notice that
Sigmapharm Labs (Sigmapharm) submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Hepsera. In the notice, Sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with Hepsera are invalid, unenforceable
and/or will not be infringed by Sigmapharm s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Hepsera. In September 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for Hepsera. One of the patents challenged by
Sigmapharm is also being challenged by Ranbaxy, Inc. (Ranbaxy) pursuant to a notice received in October 2010. The patent challenged by Ranbaxy expires in July 2018. We have the option of filing a lawsuit at any time if we believe that Ranbaxy is
infringing our patent.      In February 2011, we received notice that Natco Pharma Limited (Natco) submitted an ANDA to the FDA
requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Tamiflu. In the notice, Natco alleges that a patent associated with Tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Natco s manufacture, use or sale of a
generic version of Tamiflu. We are currently reviewing the notice letter and have 45 days from the date of receipt to commence a patent infringement lawsuit against Natco.   
         38   

Table of Contents  

   We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant
resources enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Ranexa and Tamiflu in the
United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those
patents.       Our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of
third parties.       If we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required
to obtain licenses from these third parties. We may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. If we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or
commercialize some or all of our products. For example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of LEAP, our restricted distribution program designed to support Letairis.   
  Furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain
aspects of our production and other technologies. Our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors.   
   Manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations.    
  We depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose
products. In addition, Roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing Tamiflu. The manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that
they believe do not comply with regulations. We, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to current Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability
testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the FDA and the European Medicines Agency. Similar regulations are in effect in other countries.      Our third-party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. If we or any of these
third-party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory
approval. To the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected.      Our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. For example, in January and February 2010, the FDA conducted a routine inspection of our San Dimas, California,
manufacturing and distribution facility, where we manufacture AmBisome and Cayston, fill and finish Macugen, and package solid dosage form products. At the conclusion of that inspection, the FDA issued Form 483 Inspectional Observations stating
concerns over: the maintenance of aseptic processing conditions in the manufacturing suite for our AmBisome product; environmental maintenance issues in the San Dimas warehousing facility; batch sampling; and the timeliness of completion of annual
product quality reports. On September 24, 2010, our San Dimas manufacturing facility received a Warning Letter from the FDA further detailing the FDA s concerns over the AmBisome manufacturing environment, including control systems and
monitoring, procedures to prevent microbiological contamination and preventative cleaning and equipment maintenance. Referencing certain Viread lots, the letter also stated concerns connected with quality procedures, controls and investigation
procedures, and a generalized concern over the effectiveness of the San Dimas quality unit in carrying out its responsibilities.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

   In November and December 2010, the FDA re-inspected the San Dimas facility. The
re-inspection closed with no additional Form 483 observations. Consequently, we believe that we have addressed the FDA s concerns as stated in the Form 483 observations and the Warning Letter, but we are awaiting confirmation of acceptance from
the FDA.      Unless and until we receive confirmation from the FDA that it is satisfied we have corrected outstanding issues, the
FDA may withhold permission to export AmBisome and Cayston manufactured at San Dimas to certain countries outside the United States and Europe. The FDA may also withhold approval of pending drug applications listing the San Dimas facility. Since, as
required, we have notified appropriate international regulatory authorities of the letter s issuance, it is possible that the letter may impact our ability to supply our aseptic products manufactured at San Dimas (AmBisome, Cayston and Macugen)
outside the United States. If as a result of a Warning Letter, we are unable to receive export or regulatory approvals for AmBisome or any other products at issue, we may be unable to sell sufficient quantities of these products to meet market
demand, which would decrease our revenues and harm our business. As described further in the risk factor entitled  We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products,
which would limit our ability to generate revenues  below, we manufacture AmBisome and fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our San Dimas facility.      We do not believe the Warning Letter will impact our ability to supply any of the solid dosage form products that we package at the San Dimas facility, which include Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Emtriva,
Hepsera, Letairis and Ranexa. In the event our solid dosage form products were affected, we have alternate sites from which we could supply such products.       Our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize Cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility.    
  Aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Cayston, is a mono-bactam Gram-negative antibiotic. We manufacture Cayston by ourselves
in San Dimas, California, or through third parties, in multi-product manufacturing facilities. Historically, the FDA has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the
FDA will continue to allow this practice. We do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of Cayston nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for Cayston. If the FDA
prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our
commercial supplies of Cayston and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product.      On September 24,
2010, our San Dimas manufacturing facility received a Warning Letter from the FDA. See the Risk Factor entitled  Manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of
operations.  It is possible that the Warning Letter may impact our ability to supply Cayston manufactured at San Dimas outside of the United States, which would decrease our revenues and harm our business.   
   We may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our
ability to generate revenues.       We need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to
manufacture our products. In light of the global economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used in our manufacturing process. If we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these materials
or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues.   
         40   

Table of Contents  

   Suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an NDA filed with the FDA for any
product candidate for which we are seeking FDA approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. Even after a manufacturer is qualified by the FDA, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and
effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with GMP. Manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the FDA following initial approval. If, as a result of these inspections, the FDA determines that
the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable FDA regulations and conditions of product approval, the FDA may suspend the manufacturing operations. If the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers
for our products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. In addition, if delivery of
material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. In addition, some of our products and the materials
that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. For example, we manufacture AmBisome and fill and finish Macugen exclusively at our facilities in San Dimas, California. In the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment
failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture AmBisome and Macugen to meet market needs.   
  Cayston is dependent on two different third-party single-source suppliers. First, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in
aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. Second, it is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. Disruptions or delays with any of
these single suppliers could adversely affect our ability to supply Cayston, and we cannot be sure that alternative suppliers can be identified in a timely manner, or at all. See the Risk Factor entitled  Our ability to successfully manufacture
and commercialize Cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility.       In addition, we
depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of AmBisome. We also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of Vistide, Ranexa and Cayston and for the tableting of Emtriva and
Letairis. Astellas US LLC, which markets Lexiscan in the United States, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in the United States and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of
Lexiscan. Problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts.      A significant portion of the raw materials and intermediates used to manufacture our HIV products (Atripla, Truvada, Viread and Emtriva) are supplied by Chinese-based companies. As a result, an
international trade dispute between China and the United States or any other actions by the Chinese government that would limit or prevent Chinese companies from supplying these materials would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply
our HIV products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results.       We face credit risks from our
European customers that may adversely affect our results of operations.       Our European product sales to government-owned or
supported customers in Greece, Italy, Portugal and Spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. This has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to
the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. Our accounts receivable in these countries totaled approximately $965.9 million as of December 31, 2010, of which $428.5 million was more than 120 days past due based on
contractual payment terms. As a result of the fiscal and debt crises in these countries, the number of days our invoices are past due has continued to increase in line with that being experienced by other pharmaceutical companies that are also
selling directly to hospitals. Historically, receivables balances with certain publicly-owned hospitals accumulate over a period of time and are then subsequently settled as large lump sum payments. If significant changes were to occur in the
reimbursement practices of these European governments or if   
         41   

Table of Contents  

government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. For example, at
December 31, 2010, we had $109.1 million due from publicly-owned hospitals in Greece. The Greek government has offered to settle the majority of their outstanding receivables with zero-coupon bonds, which are expected to trade at a discount to
face value, and we have agreed to accept the bonds. As of December 31, 2010, we received bonds to settle receivables totaling $12.8 million. We anticipate receiving the remaining bonds in full by the end of the first quarter of 2011. At
December 31, 2010, our allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate to cover exposure related to the expected discount on these bonds. In Spain, Italy and Portugal we are actively pursuing collection of the overdue receivables and taking action
as necessary to enforce our legal right to payment.       Our revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our
products are available at lower prices.       Prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and
sometimes differ from country to country. Our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. There have been cases in which other pharmaceutical
products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to European countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. If this happens with our products, particularly Truvada and Viread, which we have
agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to 130 countries participating in our Gilead Access Program, or Atripla, which Merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to HIV infected patients in developing countries under our
August 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. In addition, we have established partnerships with thirteen Indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95
developing world countries, including India. If generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the United States, Europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected.
     In addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in
which our selling prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. For example, in the European Union, we are required to permit products purchased in one
country to be sold in another country. Purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and
can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and not reflect the actual consumer demand in any given quarter. These quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our
stock price and harm our business.       Expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings.    
  In November 2008, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic
version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008,
we filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the notice,
Teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in December 2008. In January 2010, we
received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting Viread. In January 2010,
we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Atripla and Truvada. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. In the
notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four   
         42   

Table of Contents  

patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. In March 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Teva for
infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. In March 2010, BMS and Merck filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz.   
  In June 2010, we received notice that Lupin submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic
version of Ranexa. In the notice, Lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with Ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Lupin s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Ranexa. In July 2010, we filed a
lawsuit against Lupin for infringement of our patents for Ranexa.      In August 2010, we received notice that Sigmapharm
submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Hepsera. In the notice, Sigmapharm alleges that both of the patens associated with Hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by
Sigmapharm s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Hepsera. In September 2010, we filed a lawsuit against Sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for Hepsera. One of the patents challenged by Sigmapharm is also being challenged by
Ranbaxy pursuant to a notice received in October 2010. The patent challenged by Ranbaxy expires in July 2018. We are considering our options for enforcing our patent.      In February 2011, we received notice that Natco submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Tamiflu. In the notice, Natco alleges that a patent
associated with Tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Natco s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Tamiflu. We are currently reviewing the notice letter and have 45 days from the date of receipt to
commence a patent infringement lawsuit against Natco.      We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may
spend significant resources enforcing these patents. If we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Ranexa
and Tamiflu in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration
date of those patents.      The outcome of the lawsuits above, or any other lawsuits that may be brought against us, are
inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business.   
   In some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products.    
  In a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should
make drugs for HIV infection available at low cost. Alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby
reducing our product sales. For example, in the past, certain offices of the government of Brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our HIV products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the
manufacture of otherwise patented products for HIV infection, including Viread. In July 2009, the Brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in Viread. This was
the highest level of appeal available to us within the Brazilian patent authority. We have filed a civil action in Brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the Brazilian patent authority. If we are unable to successfully appeal the
decision by the patent authority in the courts, the Brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of HIV products in
  
         43   

Table of Contents  

Brazil. In 2010, the Brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our HIV products. Further, we are aware of applications from two generic companies to sell a generic version of
Viread in Brazil. If one or both of these generic applicants are able to compete for this contract for 2011, we would not expect the Brazilian government to purchase any of our HIV products in 2011.   
  In addition, concerns over the cost and availability of Tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic and H1N1 influenza have
generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our Tamiflu patents. For example, the Canadian government may allow Canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in Tamiflu to
eligible developing and least developed countries under Canada s Access to Medicines Regime. Furthermore, Roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu. For example, Roche has granted a sublicense to
Shanghai Pharmaceutical (Group) Co., Ltd. for China and a sublicense to India s Hetero Drugs Limited for India and certain developing countries. Should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our
Tamiflu patents, or should Roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of Tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from Roche s sales of Tamiflu. Certain countries do not permit enforcement
of our patents, and third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. Compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our
results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales.   
   We may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our
earnings.       The testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in
development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. These claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. In recent years, coverage and availability of cost-effective product
liability insurance has decreased, so we may be unable to maintain sufficient coverage for product liabilities that may arise. In addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. If we are
unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and market our products will be adversely impacted. In addition, negative publicity associated
with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition.       Business
disruptions from natural or man-made disasters may harm our future revenues.       Our worldwide operations could be subject to
business interruptions stemming from natural or man-made disasters for which we may be self-insured. Our corporate headquarters and Palo Alto locations, which together house a majority of our research and development activities, and our San Dimas
manufacturing facility are located in California, a seismically active region. As we do not carry earthquake insurance and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be
materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake.       Changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings.
      Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. These factors include, but are not
limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, our portion of the non-tax deductible pharmaceutical excise tax that we will be required to pay starting in 2011 as a result of the enactment of U.S. healthcare reform
legislation, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of R D spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we
operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative
impact on our net income.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

   Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are
currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes
may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. Resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact
on the results of operations for that period.       Changes in accounting rules or policies may affect our financial position and results of
operations.       U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be
highly complex and involve subjective judgments. Changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and
results of operations.       If we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product
candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates.       Our future success will depend in large
part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. We face competition for
personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. Competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of
qualified potential employees to recruit. We may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. If we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed.   

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS      
  Not applicable.       

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES         Our corporate
headquarters, including our principal offices and some of our commercial, administrative, research and development (R D) facilities, are located in Foster City, California, where we own 18 buildings.   
  We lease facilities in Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California, to house some of our manufacturing, warehousing and R D
activities. In addition, we also lease facilities in Branford, Connecticut and Seattle, Washington to house some of our administrative and R D activities.      Our international headquarters, which include some of our commercial, medical and administrative facilities, are located and leased in the London area in the United Kingdom.   
  We own a manufacturing facility in Cork, Ireland, that we primarily use for solid dose tablet manufacturing of our antiviral products, as
well as product packaging activities. We also lease and own facilities in the Dublin area of Ireland to house distribution activities.      We also own a manufacturing facility in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, that we primarily use to conduct process research and scale-up of our clinical development candidates, the manufacturing of our active
pharmaceutical ingredients for both investigational and commercial products and our chemical development activities to improve existing commercial manufacturing processes.      We have leased additional facilities to house our commercial, medical and administrative activities in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, France, Germany, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Poland,
Portugal,   
         45   

Table of Contents  

Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and the United Kingdom. We also lease an office in Shanghai, China to provide sourcing and manufacturing support primarily related to our commercial purchases
of active pharmaceutical ingredients.      We believe that our existing properties, including both owned and leased sites, are in
good condition and suitable for the conduct of our business. We believe our capital resources are sufficient to purchase, lease or construct any additional facilities required to meet our expected long-term growth needs.   

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS         In
November 2008, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Truvada. In the notice, Teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by Emory
University and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Teva s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Truvada. In December 2008, we filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York
against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. In March 2009, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Atripla. In the notice, Teva challenged the
same two emtricitabine patents. In May 2009, we filed another lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New York against Teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in December 2008. In
January 2010, we received notice that Teva submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Viread. In the notice, Teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting Viread.
In January 2010, we also received notices from Teva amending its ANDAs related to Atripla and Truvada. In the notice related to Truvada, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to
emtricitabine. In the notice related to Atripla, Teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. In March 2010, we filed a lawsuit against
Teva for infringement of the four Viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. In March 2010, BMS and Merck filed a lawsuit against Teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz.   
  In June 2010, we received notice that Lupin submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic
version of Ranexa. In the notice, Lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with Ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Lupin s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Ranexa. In July 2010, we filed a
lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New Jersey against Lupin for infringement of our patents for Ranexa.      In August 2010, we
received notice that Sigmapharm submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of Hepsera. In the notice, Sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with Hepsera are invalid, unenforceable
and/or will not be infringed by Sigmapharm s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Hepsera. In September 2010, we filed a lawsuit in U.S. District Court in New Jersey against Sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for Hepsera.
One of the patents challenged by Sigmapharm is also being challenged by Ranbaxy, Inc. (Ranbaxy) pursuant to a notice received in October 2010. The patent challenged by Ranbaxy expires in July 2018. We are considering our options for enforcing our
patent.      In February 2011, we received notice that Natco submitted an ANDA to the FDA requesting permission to manufacture and
market a generic version of Tamiflu. In the notice, Natco alleges that a patent associated with Tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by Natco s manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of Tamiflu. We are currently
reviewing the notice letter and have 45 days from the date of receipt to commence a patent infringement lawsuit against Natco.   
  We cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. If we are
unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be   
         46   

Table of Contents  

narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Ranexa and Tamiflu in the United States could be substantially shortened. Further, if all of the patents
covering those products are invalidated, the FDA could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents.      Information pertaining to certain of our other legal proceedings can be found in Item 8, Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   

ITEM 4.   
   RESERVED      
         47   

Table of Contents  

    PART II    

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES      
  Our common stock is traded on The Nasdaq Global Select Market under the symbol  GILD . The following table sets forth the high
and low intra-day sale prices per share of our common stock on The Nasdaq Global Select Market for the periods indicated. These prices represent quotations among dealers without adjustments for retail mark-ups, markdowns or commissions and may not
represent prices of actual transactions.       
    As of
February 18, 2011, we had 795,264,644 shares of common stock outstanding held by approximately 466 stockholders of record.   
  We have not paid cash dividends on our common stock since our inception. We currently expect to retain earnings primarily for use in the
operation and expansion of our business, and therefore, do not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the near future. In an effort to continue to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, our Board of Directors
(Board) authorized a program in January 2010 for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means.
We completed this plan in May 2010, at which time our Board authorized a three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2010, we have repurchased $3.02 billion of our common stock under this program. In 2010, we utilized
a total of $4.02 billion to repurchase and retire 109.9 million shares of our common stock, at an average purchase price of $36.57 per share.      In January 2011, our Board authorized an additional three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program which will commence upon the completion of our existing program authorized in May 2010. We intend to
use the additional authorization to repurchase our shares from time to time, to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. See Item 8, Note 13 to our Consolidated
Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding our stock repurchase programs.       Performance
Graph  (1)        
  The following graph compares our total stockholder returns for the past five years to two indices: the Standard  
Poor s 500 Stock Index, labeled S P500 Index; and the Nasdaq Biotechnology Index, labeled NBI Index. The total return for each index assumes the reinvestment of all dividends, if any, paid by companies included in these indices and are
calculated as of December 31 of each year.      We are a composite member of each of the S P500 Index and the
NBI Index, and we intend to use these indices as comparators for our stock performance for the purposes of the following graph going forward. As a   
         48   

Table of Contents  

composite member of the S P500 Index, we are required under applicable regulations to use this index as a comparator, and we believe the NBI Index is a relevant comparator
since it is composed of peer companies in lines-of-business similar to ours.      The stockholder return shown on the graph below
is not necessarily indicative of future performance, and we do not make or endorse any predictions as to future stockholder returns.       Comparison of Cumulative Total Return on Investment for the Past Five
Years  (2)        

(1)     
    This section is not  soliciting material,  is not deemed  filed  with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of
our filings under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing.      
     Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities    
  In an effort to continue to return value to our stockholders and minimize dilution from stock issuances, our Board authorized a program in
January 2010 for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means. We completed this plan in May
2010, at which time our Board authorized a three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2010, we have repurchased $3.02 billion of our common stock under this program. In 2010, we utilized a total of $4.02 billion to
repurchase and retire 109.9 million shares of our common stock, at an average purchase price of $36.57 per share.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

   In January 2011, our Board authorized an additional three-year, $5.00 billion stock
repurchase program which will commence upon the completion of our existing program authorized in May 2010. We intend to use the additional authorization to repurchase our shares from time to time, to offset the dilution created by shares issued
under employee stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically. See Item 8, Note 13 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for more information regarding our stock repurchase programs.
     The table below summarizes our stock repurchase activity for the three months ended December 31, 2010 (in thousands,
except per share amounts):       

(1)     
    The difference between the total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced programs is due to
shares of common stock withheld by us from employee restricted stock awards in order to satisfy our applicable tax withholding obligations.      
         50   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA      
   GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA        (in thousands, except per share
data)        

(1)   
        During 2010, we
recorded $136.0 million of impairment charges in R D expense, related to certain in-process research and development (IPR D) assets acquired from CV Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics). See Item 8, Notes 5 and 9 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.         During 2008, we completed the
acquisition of all of the assets of Navitas Assets, LLC related to its cicletanine business for an aggregate purchase price of $10.9 million which was allocated to purchased IPR D.   
  During 2006, we completed the acquisition of Myogen, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $2.42 billion, of which $2.06 billion was
allocated to purchased IPR D. In 2006, we also acquired the net assets of Corus Pharma, Inc. for $415.5 million, of which $335.6 million was allocated to purchased IPR D.   

(2)   
        During 2009, we
completed the acquisition of CV Therapeutics and we recognized consideration transferred of $1.39 billion which was primarily recorded in intangible assets. See Item 8, Note 5 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.          

(3)   
        During 2010, we
issued $2.50 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes in a private placement. See Item 8, Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.      
  During 2006, we issued $1.30 billion principal amount of convertible senior notes in a private placement. See Item 8, Note 11 to our
Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.   
         51   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS      
  The following Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) is intended to help
the reader understand our results of operations and financial condition. MD A is provided as a supplement to, and should be read in conjunction with, our audited Consolidated Financial Statements and the accompanying notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements and other disclosures included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (including the disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors ). Our Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles and are presented in U.S. dollars.       Management Overview    
  We are a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of
unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. We market products in the
HIV/AIDS, liver disease, respiratory and cardiovascular/metabolic therapeutic areas. Our product portfolio is comprised of
Atripla      (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Truvada      (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), Viread      (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and
Emtriva      (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; Hepsera      (adefovir dipivoxil) and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B; AmBisome      (amphotericin B liposome for injection) for the treatment of severe fungal infections; Letairis      (ambrisentan) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); Ranexa      (ranolazine) for the treatment of chronic angina; Vistide      (cidofovir injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection and Cayston      (aztreonam for inhalation solution) as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  ( P.
aeruginosa ).      In addition, we also sell and distribute certain products through our corporate partners
under royalty-paying collaborative agreements. For example, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu      (oseltamivir phosphate) for the treatment and prevention of influenza; GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) markets Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
in certain territories outside of the United States; GSK also markets Volibris      (ambrisentan) outside of the
United States for the treatment of PAH; Astellas Pharma US, Inc. markets AmBisome for the treatment of severe fungal infections in the United States and Canada; Astellas US LLC markets Lexiscan      (regadenoson) injection in the United States for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging; Rapidscan Pharma Solutions, Inc.
markets Rapiscan (regadenoson) in certain territories outside of the United States for the inducement of pharmacological stress and/or vasodilation of the coronary vasculature strictly for purposes of diagnosing cardiovascular disease; Menarini
International Operations Luxembourg SA markets Ranexa in certain territories outside of the United States for the treatment of chronic angina; and Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco) markets Truvada, Viread and Emtriva in Japan.   
   Business Highlights    
  During 2010, we grew our business significantly and achieved record total revenues of $7.95 billion while strengthening our product
portfolio and pipeline programs.      Our antiviral franchise, in particular Atripla and Truvada, continued to drive product sales
growth both in the United States and within the big five European Union markets, which are comprised of the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Italy and Spain. Our cardiovascular franchise also delivered strong results for the year with the
contributions of Letairis and Ranexa to our total revenues. Our newest product, Cayston, in the respiratory area, was well accepted in North America and certain countries of Europe, showing continued revenue growth throughout 2010.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

   During the year, we also made strategic decisions to advance and focus our research and
development (R D) pipeline efforts, including:       

In the HIV area, in September 2010, we announced that we had submitted a Marketing Authorization Application to the European Medicines Agency for
marketing approval of the single-tablet regimen of Truvada and Tibotec Pharmaceuticals  (Tibotec) investigational non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, TMC278 (rilpivirine hydrochloride), for the treatment of HIV-1 infection in
adults. In November 2010, we announced that we had submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for marketing approval of the single-tablet regimen of Truvada and Tibotec s TMC278, for the treatment of
HIV-1 infection in adults. In January 2011, we received a  refuse to file  notification from the U.S. FDA. In its communication, the FDA requested additional information with respect to the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls section of
the NDA submission. In February 2011, we re-filed our new drug application, which included the requested information, and are awaiting the FDA s response as to whether it is substantially complete to permit a substantive review.

Also in the HIV area, during 2010, we initiated both Phase 3 clinical studies for our investigational fixed-dose, single-tablet  Quad 
regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat (formerly GS 9350) and Truvada. The two Phase 3 studies are evaluating the single-tablet fixed-dose regimen versus a standard of care among HIV-infected treatment-na ve patients. In the second quarter of
2010, we also initiated a Phase 3 study evaluating the efficacy, safety and tolerability of cobicistat, our pharmacoenhancer that is in development as a boosting agent for certain HIV medicines and other antivirals. In September 2010, we released
positive 48-week results from two of our ongoing Phase 2 clinical studies in HIV-infected patients. The first were from the study of our fixed-dose, single-tablet  Quad  regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat and Truvada versus Atripla. The
second were from the study of cobicistat-boosted atazanavir plus Truvada compared to ritonavir-boosted atazanavir plus Truvada.          

In the liver disease area, our hepatitis C virus (HCV) pipeline now includes seven unique molecules spanning six therapeutic classes with different
mechanisms of action. Five of these compounds are currently in clinical trials, and two are slated to enter human clinical studies in early 2011. In October 2010, we announced data from a Phase 2a study showing that our investigational compounds GS
9190 and GS 9256, used in conjunction with current standard of care therapies, produced substantial suppression of HCV within 28 days of treatment. Additionally, in October 2010, we announced new data from the open-label phase of two pivotal Phase 3
clinical trials (Studies 102 and 103) evaluating the four-year efficacy of Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection, which show that Viread maintains antiviral suppression with no development of resistance through four
years of treatment. Data also show significant  s  antigen loss, a marker of the resolution of chronic HBV infection, in HBeAg-positive patients.      

Also in the liver disease area, in July 2010, John McHutchison, MD, joined Gilead as Senior Vice President, Liver Disease Therapeutics to lead the
efforts to advance discovery and development programs in the liver disease area.          

In the respiratory area, we announced in October 2010 that our head-to-head Phase 3 clinical trial of Cayston versus tobramycin inhalation solution
(TIS) in CF patients with  P. aeruginosa  achieved its co-primary endpoint of superiority of Cayston to TIS for mean actual change in forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1, a measure of lung function) percent predicted   across
three   treatment cycles (six months). Earlier in the year, in February, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Cayston as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in CF patients with  P. aeruginosa .

In the cardiovascular and metabolic areas, in December 2010, we announced the termination of ARTEMIS-IPF, our Phase 3 study of ambrisentan in patients
with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF). This decision follows an interim analysis of unblinded efficacy and safety data by the study s Data Monitoring Committee and our review of those data, which did not show evidence of a treatment benefit
in the group of patients randomized to receive ambrisentan.      
         53   

Table of Contents  

   During the year, we also expanded our pipeline through strategic acquisitions. We completed
the acquisition of Arresto Biosciences, Inc. (Arresto) in January 2011 for $225 million plus potential future payments based on achievement of certain sales levels. Arresto was a privately-held, development-stage biotechnology company based in Palo
Alto, California, focused on developing antibodies for the potential treatment of fibrotic diseases and cancer. The company s lead product is GS 6624 (formerly AB0024), a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeting the human lysyl
oxidase-like-2 (LOXL2) protein. In addition to an ongoing Phase 1 study of GS 6624 in patients with advanced solid tumors, a Phase 1 study is being conducted to evaluate GS 6624 in patients with IPF.   
  We completed the acquisition of CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (CGI) in July 2010 for up to $120 million in cash, the majority as an upfront
payment and the remaining based on the achievement of certain clinical development milestones. CGI was a privately-held development stage pharmaceutical company based in Branford, Connecticut, primarily focused on small molecule chemistry and
protein kinase biology. The lead preclinical compound from CGI s library of proprietary small molecule kinase inhibitors targets spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and could have unique applications for the treatment of serious inflammatory diseases,
including rheumatoid arthritis.       Financial Highlights       Our operating results for 2010 were led by total product sales of $7.39 billion, an increase of 14% over total product sales of $6.47 billion for 2009. The increase in product sales was driven primarily
by our antiviral franchise (Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera and Emtriva), due mainly to the strong growth in Atripla sales. Atripla contributed $2.93 billion, or 45%, to our 2010 antiviral product sales. Atripla product sales for 2010 increased
23% from 2009 primarily due to sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. Truvada product sales for 2010 comprised $2.65 billion, or 41% of 2010 antiviral product sales. Truvada product sales for 2010 increased 6% from 2009 primarily due
to sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. Foreign currency exchange had an unfavorable impact of $93.7 million and $79.8 million on our 2010 revenues and pre-tax earnings, respectively, compared to 2009.   
  Product sales in the United States were driven primarily by our antiviral franchise but also reflected growth in sales of our
cardiovascular products. Antiviral product sales in the United States increased 13% in 2010 compared to 2009, resulting from the continued growth of patient and market share in the United States. With respect to our cardiovascular franchise, Ranexa
sales in the United States were $234.8 million in 2010, reflecting a continued growth in demand as Ranexa prescriptions have increased by 71% since our acquisition of CV Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics) in April 2009. Ranexa sales were $123.1
million in 2009 for the period subsequent to our acquisition of CV Therapeutics. Furthermore, Letairis sales contributed $240.3 million to 2010 product sales in the United States, reflecting a 31% increase from 2009. Our newest product, Cayston,
also contributed $47.5 million during its first year of sales in 2010, the majority of which was in the United States.   
  Product sales in Europe were driven by antiviral product sales, which increased 9% in 2010 compared to 2009, due to continued strong
growth in demand. While we saw demand growth for our products in Europe, the effect was partially offset by recent mandatory price reductions in certain European countries and foreign currency exchange impact from a strengthening U.S. dollar
relative to European currencies.      Royalty revenues recognized from our collaborations with corporate partners were $546.0
million for 2010, an increase of $54.2 million or 11% from royalty revenues of $491.8 million for 2009. Other royalty revenues, which include royalties from GSK for Hepsera, royalties from Astellas for Lexiscan and royalties from Japan Tobacco for
Truvada, contributed to the increase in total royalty revenues, partially offset by Tamiflu royalties from Roche which decreased from $392.7 million in 2009 to $386.5 million in 2010.   
  Our R D and selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses increased by $230.7 million, or 12% for 2010 compared to 2009.
The increase was due primarily to impairment charges related to in-process R D   
         54   

Table of Contents  

(IPR D) assets acquired from CV Therapeutics, higher headcount and expenses to support our expanding commercial activities and clinical studies expenses related to increased HIV research
activities, partially offset by lower R D expense reimbursement related to our collaboration with Tibotec.      We approved
and communicated a plan during the second quarter of 2010 to close our research operations in Durham, North Carolina and consolidate our liver disease research activities in Foster City, California. We believe this plan will allow our employees to
collaborate more effectively and further advance our programs in the liver disease area. During the year, we incurred a total of $25.0 million of restructuring expenses related to employee severance and facilities-related expenses under this plan.
In December 2010, we closed our operations in Durham. We do not expect to incur any additional significant costs in connection with this plan.   
   Financing Activity    
  Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities increased by $1.41 billion during 2010, driven primarily by our operating cash flows of
$2.83 billion and proceeds of $2.46 billion from the issuance of convertible senior notes, net of issuance costs, partially offset by repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase programs. Under our current three-year, $5.00 billion
stock repurchase program authorized in May 2010, we repurchased $3.02 billion of our common stock through December 31, 2010. In May 2010, we had completed the $1.00 billion stock repurchase program previously authorized in January 2010. For the
year, we utilized a total of $4.02 billion of cash to repurchase and retire 109.9 million shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $36.57 per share.      Our Board authorized an additional three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program in January 2011 for future repurchases of our outstanding shares of common stock which will commence upon the
completion of our existing program authorized in May 2010. We intend to use the additional authorization to repurchase our shares from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee stock plans and to repurchase
shares opportunistically.      We issued $2.50 billion of convertible senior notes in July 2010 in a private placement and
purchased convertible note hedges as well as sold warrants for a net cost of $207.2 million. The cost of the convertible note hedges will be tax deductible over the life of the notes. The convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce
the potential economic dilution upon future conversions of the notes by effectively increasing our conversion prices for the notes. Our interest expense for 2010 increased by $39.3 million compared to 2009, due primarily to increased interest
expense related to the notes.      We have used and will continue to use the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible
notes to repurchase shares of our common stock and repay existing indebtedness.       Healthcare Reform    
  In March 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the United States. As a result, we are required to further rebate or discount
products reimbursed or paid for by various public payers, including Medicaid and other entities eligible to purchase discounted products through the 340B Drug Pricing Program under the Public Health Service Act, such as AIDS Drug Assistance Programs
(ADAPs). The discounts, rebates and fees in the legislation that impacted us include:       

effective January 1, 2010, our minimum base rebate amount owed to Medicaid on products reimbursed by Medicaid was increased by 8%, and the
discounts or rebates we owe to ADAPs and other Public Health Service entities which reimburse or purchase our products were also increased by 8%;          

effective March 23, 2010, we are required to extend rebates to patients receiving our products through Medicaid managed care organizations;

effective January 1, 2011, we are required to provide a 50% discount on products sold to patients while they are in the Medicare Part D
 donut hole;  and      
         55   

Table of Contents  

effective 2011, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of a new industry fee (also
known as the pharmaceutical excise tax), calculated based on select government sales during the 2010 calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales.      
  Starting in 2014, as the number of people with access to healthcare coverage is expected to increase, we could experience a positive
impact on the sales of our products. Further, the expansion of healthcare coverage may decrease the reliance of patients on state ADAPs that currently rely on the availability of federal and state funding.   
  The full impact of healthcare reform for 2010 was a reduction of approximately $200 million in U.S. net product sales. The majority of
this impact began in the third quarter and continued throughout the fourth quarter of 2010 since some of the new discount and rebate requirements took two quarters to fully take effect. For 2011, excluding the impact of the new pharmaceutical excise
tax, we estimate that the impact of healthcare reform on product sales will be approximately 5 6% of our U.S. net product sales.      Many of the specific determinations necessary to implement the healthcare reform legislation have yet to be decided and communicated by the federal government. For example, we do not know how many or how
quickly patients receiving our product under the Medicare Part D program will reach the  donut hole  or how details of the pharmaceutical excise tax will be calculated. Based on the information that we have to date, we estimate the 2011
impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be between $30 $50 million, which will be classified as SG A expense. The excise tax is not tax deductible. In calculating the anticipated financial impacts of healthcare reform described above, we
made several estimates and assumptions with respect to our expected payer mix and how the reforms will be implemented.       2011 Outlook
      Our operating objectives for 2011 include increasing the market share of our commercial products, continuing to strengthen
our pipeline with internally developed and/or externally in-licensed or purchased opportunities and strengthening our key alliances. Additionally, we remain committed to returning value to our shareholders as we continue to repurchase our shares in
a disciplined manner throughout the year.      From an R D standpoint, we will continue to execute on our pipeline development
with a particular focus on innovative HIV single-tablet regimens for patients and progression of HCV molecules into the clinic.   
  From a commercial standpoint, we have a number of internal and external initiatives intended to promote the continued growth of our
franchises. In the HIV area, we expect to see continued positive impact from the revised U.S. Department of Health and Human Services treatment guidelines that recommend earlier treatment for patients with HIV. The extension of the Ryan White
Treatment Act should provide stable funding for ADAPs in the United States through 2013. Assuming the timely resolution of the issues with the  refuse to file  notification from the FDA, we expect to launch a single-tablet regimen of
Truvada and Tibotec s TMC278 in the second half of 2011 which we expect to contribute incremental revenue to our HIV franchise. In February 2011, we re-filed our new drug application, which included the requested information, and are awaiting
the FDA s response as to whether it is substantially complete to permit a substantive review. In the hepatitis B virus (HBV) area, we will continue to support educational and promotional activities focused on U.S. Asian communities,
highlighting the need to screen, diagnose and link patients to care. As part of those efforts, in 2010, we expanded our hepatitis B field team in the United States. In the cardiovascular area, we will continue in our efforts to raise awareness of
Gilead in the PAH and cardiology communities and believe this will help grow revenues of Letairis and Ranexa in 2011. In cystic fibrosis, we intend to expand our field team to further grow our market share for Cayston.   
  We are mindful that conditions in our current macroeconomic environment could affect our ability to achieve our goals. Some of the
factors that could affect our business include: any future changes to healthcare   
         56   

Table of Contents  

reform in the United States, a continuation or worsening of global economic conditions, patent expirations of competitive products and the launch of generic competitors, continued government
pricing pressures internationally and the potential volatility in foreign currency exchange rates. We will continue to monitor these conditions and will adjust our business processes, as appropriate, to mitigate these risks to our business.
     The successes we experienced in 2010 have helped us maintain and build a financially sound business model that we believe
will allow us to continue to further expand our commercial, collaborative and R D activities and to maintain quality and compliance. As we continue to grow our business, we remain focused on profitable revenue growth and prudent expense
management that we believe will enable solid execution of our operating objectives for 2011.       Critical Accounting Policies, Estimates and
Judgments       The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations is based on our Consolidated
Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires us to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, revenues and expenses and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including those related to revenue recognition, intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts, prepaid royalties, clinical trial
accruals, our tax provision and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of
which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ significantly from these estimates.   
  We believe the following critical accounting policies reflect the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our
Consolidated Financial Statements.       Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenues from product sales when there is
persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. We record estimated reductions to revenues for government rebates such as Medicaid
reimbursements, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and expected returns of expired products. These estimates are deducted from gross product sales at the time such revenues are recognized. Of these
reductions from gross product sales, government rebates significantly impact our reported net product sales and are based upon certain estimates that require complex and significant judgment by management.   
   Government Rebates       We estimate reductions to our revenues for government-managed Medicaid programs as well as to certain other qualifying federal, state and foreign government programs for the reimbursement of portions of
the retail price of prescriptions filled that are covered by these programs. These reductions are settled either by the company being invoiced directly or through charge-backs from our wholesalers. Government rebates that are invoiced directly to us
are recorded in accrued government rebates on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers at a lower contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to us the difference
between their acquisition cost and the lower contractual government price, which we record as allowances against accounts receivable. Although we may pay rebates in countries outside of the United States, to date, payments made to foreign
governments have not represented a significant portion of our total government rebates. For government programs in the United States, we estimate these sales allowances based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates, new information
regarding changes in these programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our   
         57   

Table of Contents  

expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and channel inventory data obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements.
During 2010, 2009, and 2008, U.S government rebates of $1.38 billion, $885.5 million and $625.0 million, respectively, representing 15%, 12% and 10% of total gross product sales, respectively, were deducted from gross product sales. We believe that
the methodology that we use to estimate our sales allowances for government price reductions is reasonable and appropriate given the current facts and circumstances. However, actual results may differ. Based on the current information available to
us, actual government rebates claimed for these periods have varied by less than 2% from our estimates recorded in those periods. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had accrued U.S. government rebates of $318.3 million and $242.9 million,
respectively, in accrued government rebates and had an allowance for doubtful accounts of $53.5 million and $41.8 million, respectively, recorded against accounts receivable.      The following table summarizes the aggregate activity in our U.S. government rebates allowance and accrued liabilities accounts:   
   
     Intangible Assets       In conjunction with business combinations that we have completed, we have recorded intangible assets primarily related to marketed products, IPR D projects and goodwill as part of our recognition and
measurement of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. Identifiable intangible assets, such as those related to marketed products or IPR D projects, are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
date. We believe the fair values assigned to our acquired intangible assets are based on reasonable estimates and assumptions given the available facts and circumstances as of the acquisition dates. Discounted cash flow models are used in valuing
these intangible assets, and these models require the use of significant estimates and assumptions including but not limited to:       

estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the products or product candidates;      

the probability of success for unapproved product candidates considering their stages of development;      

the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of product candidates;      

the life of the potential commercialized products and associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a product
candidate such as obtaining FDA and other regulatory approvals; and          

risks related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets.      
  Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
in a business combination. Goodwill and intangible assets determined to have indefinite useful lives are not amortized, but are required to be tested for impairment at least annually. We test   

         58   

Table of Contents  

goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and in between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that
would indicate a reduction in the fair values of the assets below their carrying amounts. As of December 31, 2010, we had $562.2 million of indefinite-lived intangible assets consisting of $532.7 million of goodwill resulting from various
business combinations and $29.5 million of intangible assets related to the IPR D projects that we acquired from CGI and CV Therapeutics.      Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may
not be recoverable. We are amortizing the intangible asset related to the Ranexa product, which we acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life using an amortization rate derived from our forecasted future product sales for Ranexa.
Our product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon considering such factors as historical and expected future patient usage or uptake of our products, the introduction of complimentary
or combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, we will prospectively update the rate used to amortize our intangible asset related to Ranexa
which may increase future cost of goods sold, as that is where we record the amortization expense. We are amortizing the intangible asset related to the Lexiscan product, which we also acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life to
cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis. Given that current Lexiscan revenues consist of royalties received from a collaboration partner and our lack of ongoing access and visibility into that partner s future sales forecasts, we cannot
make a reasonable estimate of the amortization rate using a forecasted product sales approach. As of December 31, 2010, we had $863.4 million of net unamortized finite-lived intangible assets consisting primarily of intangible assets related to
the marketed products that we acquired from CV Therapeutics.      Our judgment regarding the existence of impairment indicators is
based on our historical and projected future operating results, our extent or manner of use of the acquired assets, legal and regulatory factors and events, our overall business strategy and market and economic trends. If events occur in the future
that cause us to conclude that impairment indicators exist and that certain intangible assets are impaired, our financial condition and results of operations may be adversely impacted.   
  During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded $136.0 million of impairment charges related to certain IPR D assets acquired from CV
Therapeutics which we had no future plans to develop and which were deemed to have no future use to us or other market participants. These charges related to the GS 9667, Adentri and tecadenoson programs and were recorded in R D expense. The
majority of the impairment charge related to our GS 9667 program, a product candidate that was in Phase 1 clinical studies for the treatment of diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia, which was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to unfavorable
results from pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics tests that demonstrated limited effectiveness of the compound in patients. Given these results, we do not believe it has alternative future uses for us or other market participants.   
   Allowance for Doubtful Accounts       We also maintain an allowance for doubtful accounts for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. This allowance is based on our analysis of several factors
including, but not limited to, contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of days sales outstanding by geographic region and a review of the local economic environment
and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. If the financial condition of our customers or the economic environment in which they operate were to deteriorate, resulting in an inability to make payments, additional
allowances may be required. Our allowance for doubtful accounts balance as a percentage of total accounts receivable did not materially change from December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010. We believe that the allowance for doubtful accounts
is adequate to cover anticipated losses under current conditions; however, significant deterioration in any of the above factors could materially change these expectations and may result in an increase to our allowance for doubtful accounts.
  
         59   

Table of Contents  

    Prepaid Royalties       We capitalize royalties that we have prepaid at cost, specifically those related to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory University (Emory) for the HIV indication, based on the present value of
the future royalty obligation that we would expect to pay to Emory assuming certain expected future levels of our product sales incorporating emtricitabine. The present value of our future royalty obligation was derived using our weighted-average
cost of capital. We review periodically the expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down in the net recoverable value of our asset or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. Some
potential indicators of impairment include the launch of a significant product by a competitor, significant deviations in recognized product sales compared to forecast and product safety issues and recalls.   
  We amortize our prepaid royalties based on an effective royalty rate that we derive from forecasted future HIV product sales
incorporating emtricitabine. Our product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity upon considering such factors as historical and expected future patient usage or uptake of our products, the
introduction of complimentary or combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, including the introduction of a competing product by us or one of
our competitors in the same HIV market as emtricitabine, we will prospectively update the royalty rate used to amortize our prepaid royalties which may increase future cost of goods sold, as that is where we record the amortization expense. As of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had a prepaid royalty asset relating to the emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory of $219.5 million and $245.0 million, respectively. Amortization expense relating to this prepaid royalty asset was $25.5
million, $29.9 million and $31.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Clinical Trial Accruals
      We record accruals for estimated clinical study costs. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third-party contract
research organizations (CROs). These costs are a significant component of R D expenses. During 2010, 2009 and 2008, we incurred CRO costs of $99.0 million, $109.9 million and $111.8 million, respectively. We accrue costs for clinical studies
performed by CROs over the service periods specified in the contracts and adjust our estimates, if required, based upon our ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the CROs. We validate our accruals quarterly with our
vendors and perform detailed reviews of the activities related to our significant contracts. Based upon the results of these validation processes, we assess the appropriateness of our accruals and make any adjustments we deem necessary to ensure
that our expenses reflect the actual effort incurred by the CROs.      Generally, a significant portion of the total clinical
trial costs is associated with start up activities for the trial and patient enrollment. We extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. As a result, CROs typically
perform most of the total start-up activities for our trials, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training and program management. Start-up costs usually occur within a few months after
the contract has been executed and are milestone or event driven in nature.      The remaining clinical activities and related
costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur ratably throughout the life of the individual contract or study. Most contracts are negotiated as fixed per unit prices and can vary in length between three months for a single
dose Phase 1 clinical study and up to two years or more for a more complex Phase 3 clinical study. The average length of contracts in 2010, 2009 and 2008 has been at the upper end of this range in order to provide long-term safety and efficacy data
to support the commercial launches of Atripla, Truvada, Viread, Hepsera, Emtriva, Letairis and Ranexa. All of our material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO
and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point of termination. Amounts paid in advance relating to uncompleted services will be refunded to us if a contract is terminated. Some contracts may include additional termination payments that
become due and payable if we terminate the contract. Such   
         60   

Table of Contents  

additional termination payments are only recorded if it becomes probable that a contract will be terminated. Through December 31, 2010, differences between actual and estimated activity
levels for any particular study have not been material. However, if management does not receive complete and accurate information from our vendors or underestimates activity levels associated with a study at a given point in time, we may have to
record additional and potentially significant R D expenses in future periods.       Tax Provision    
  We estimate our income tax provision, including deferred tax assets and liabilities, based on significant management judgment. We evaluate
the realization of all or a portion of our deferred tax assets on a quarterly basis. We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amounts that are more likely than not to be realized. We consider future taxable income,
ongoing tax planning strategies and our historical financial performance in assessing the need for a valuation allowance.      If
we expect to realize deferred tax assets for which we have previously recorded a valuation allowance, we will reduce the valuation allowance in the period in which such determination is first made.   
  Our future effective income tax rate may be affected by such factors as changes in tax laws, regulations or rates, changing
interpretation of existing laws or regulations, our portion of the non-tax deductible pharmaceutical excise tax that we will be required to pay starting in 2011 as a result of the enactment of U.S. healthcare reform legislation, the impact of
accounting for stock-based compensation, changes in our international organization and changes in overall levels of income before tax.      At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the total gross unrecognized tax benefits were $126.5 million and $106.5 million, respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $106.5 million and $72.6 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition.      As
of December 31, 2010, we believe it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $6.0 million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the tax authorities around certain of our
uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authorities.   
  We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For federal income tax
purposes, the statute of limitations is open for 2003 and onward. For certain acquired entities, the statute of limitations is open for all years from inception due to our utilization of their net operating losses and credits carried over from prior
years. For California income tax purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for 2002 and onwards.      Our income tax
returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing
interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We
periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.      We record liabilities related to uncertain
tax positions in accordance with the guidance that clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the
financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. We do not believe any such uncertain   
         61   

Table of Contents  

tax positions currently pending will have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any
period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.       Stock-based Compensation    
  We measure all share-based payments to employees and directors, including grants of stock options, based on their relative fair values.
Fair values of awards granted under our stock option plans and Employee Stock Purchase Plan were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes option valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in
estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and
expected award life.      Stock-based compensation is recognized as expense over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated
Statements of Income using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for unvested stock options granted prior to January 1, 2006, and using the straight-line expense attribution approach for stock options granted after our adoption of new
guidance for share-based payments to employees and directors on January 1, 2006. As stock-based compensation expenses, related to stock options recognized on adoption of the new guidance, is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, gross
expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The guidance requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated forfeitures
based on our historical experience. Prior to the adoption of this guidance, pro forma information that was required to be disclosed included forfeitures as they occurred. As a result of the guidance adopted on January 1, 2006, we only recognize
a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in additional paid-in capital (APIC) if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In addition, we have elected to account for the
indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction through our Consolidated Statements of Income rather than through APIC.   
  During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized stock-based compensation expenses of $200.0 million, $185.8
million and $153.4 million, respectively, in operating expenses, and we capitalized $10.9 million, $11.4 million and $9.9 million, respectively, to inventory. As of December 31, 2010, we had unrecognized stock-based compensation expenses of
$260.8 million related to unvested stock options, which we expect to expense over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.7 years.      Our management has discussed the development, selection and disclosure of these critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure
presented above relating to these critical accounting policies.       Results of Operations    
   Total Revenues       We had
total revenues of $7.95 billion in 2010, $7.01 billion in 2009 and $5.34 billion in 2008. Included in total revenues were product sales, royalty revenues and contract and other revenues. A significant percentage of our product sales continued to be
denominated in foreign currencies and we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. We used foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily
those denominated in Euro. Foreign currency exchange had an unfavorable impact of $93.7 million on our 2010 revenues compared to 2009.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

    Product Sales       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our product sales (in thousands):       
    Total product sales increased by 14% in 2010 compared to 2009 and 27% in 2009 compared to 2008, due
primarily to an overall increase in our antiviral product sales driven by the strong growth of Atripla sales and the continued growth of Truvada sales. The growth of our cardiovascular products, Letairis and Ranexa, also contributed to the overall
increase in product sales in those periods.       Antiviral Products    
  Antiviral product sales increased by 12% in 2010 compared to 2009 and 25% in 2009 compared to 2008.   

Atripla          Atripla sales increased by 23% in 2010 compared to 2009, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. Atripla sales increased by 51% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily
by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. The European growth benefited from the launch of Atripla in France in the second quarter of 2009. Atripla sales include the efavirenz component which has a gross margin of zero. The efavirenz
portion of our Atripla sales was approximately $1.07 billion, $880.7 million and $576.0 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Atripla sales accounted for 45%, 41% and 34% of our total antiviral product sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.       

Truvada          Truvada sales increased by 6% in 2010 compared to 2009, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe. Truvada sales increased by 18% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily
by sales volume growth in the United States and Europe, partially offset by an unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact. Truvada sales accounted for 41%, 43% and 45% of our total antiviral product sales for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

Other Antiviral Products          Other antiviral product sales, which include product sales of Viread, Hepsera and Emtriva, decreased by 1% for 2010 compared to 2009 and 3% for 2009 compared to 2008, due primarily to sales volume
decreases in Hepsera, partially offset by sales volume increases in Viread.       AmBisome    
  Sales of AmBisome increased by 2% in 2010 compared to 2009 and 3% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume growth in
certain markets outside of the United States, partially offset by an   
         63   

Table of Contents  

unfavorable foreign currency exchange impact. AmBisome product sales in the United States and Canada relate solely to our sales of AmBisome to Astellas Pharma US, Inc. which are recorded at our
manufacturing cost.       Letairis       Sales of Letairis increased by 31% for 2010 compared to 2009 and 63% in 2009 compared to 2008, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States.   
   Ranexa    
  Sales of Ranexa increased by 83% for 2010 compared to 2009, driven primarily by sales volume growth in the United States. Ranexa sales
were $239.8 million for 2010 and $131.1 million for 2009. Ranexa sales began on April 15, 2009, the date Gilead acquired CV Therapeutics.      We expect total product sales to continue to grow in 2011 as we continue to expand our sales and marketing efforts to support continued opportunities for market expansion.   
   Royalty Revenues       The
following table summarizes the period over period changes in our royalty revenues (in thousands):       
    Our most significant
source of royalty revenues for 2010, 2009 and 2008 was from sales of Tamiflu by Roche. We recognize royalties on Tamiflu sales by Roche in the quarter following the quarter in which Tamiflu is sold.   
  Royalty revenues for 2010 were $546.0 million, an increase of 11% compared to 2009. Other royalty revenues, which include royalties from
GSK for Hepsera, royalties from Astellas US LLC for Lexiscan and royalties from Japan Tobacco for Truvada contributed to the increase in total royalty revenues. Tamiflu royalties from Roche contributed $386.5 million to total royalty revenues in
2010 compared to $392.7 million in 2009 as pandemic planning initiatives worldwide began to decline throughout 2010. Royalty revenues for 2009 were $491.8 million, an increase of 125% compared to 2008, driven primarily by the recognition of Tamiflu
royalties from Roche of $392.7 million in 2009 compared to Tamiflu royalties from Roche of $155.5 million in 2008. The higher Tamiflu royalties for 2009 were due to increased Tamiflu sales by Roche related primarily to pandemic planning initiatives
worldwide.       Cost of Goods Sold and Product Gross Margin       The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our product sales (in thousands), cost of goods sold (in thousands) and product gross margin:   
   
    Our product gross
margin for 2010 was 75%, consistent with our product gross margin for 2009. Our product gross margin for 2009 decreased to 75% from 78% for 2008, due primarily to the higher proportion of Atripla sales, which has a gross margin of zero for the
efavirenz component, as well as the amortization associated with the intangible assets acquired in our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.   
         64   

Table of Contents  

   We expect our product gross margin in 2011 to be lower compared to 2010, due primarily to a
higher proportion of expected Atripla sales.       Restructuring Expenses    
  During the second quarter of 2010, we approved and communicated a plan to close our research operations in Durham, North Carolina and
consolidate our liver disease research activities in Foster City, California. We believe this plan will allow our employees to collaborate more effectively and further advance our programs in the liver disease area. During the year, we recorded a
total of $14.6 million and $10.4 million in SG A expenses and R D expenses, respectively, related to employee severance and facilities-related expenses under this plan. In December 2010, we closed our operations in Durham. We do not expect
to incur any additional significant costs in connection with this plan.      During the second quarter of 2009, we approved a plan
to realize certain synergies as a result of the CV Therapeutics acquisition by re-aligning our cardiovascular operations and eliminating redundancies. In 2010, we recorded $10.6 million and $3.4 million of restructuring expenses in SG A and
R D expenses, respectively, related to employee severance, relocation, lease termination costs and other facilities-related expenses. Total costs incurred under this plan were $36.8 million and $29.1 million in SG A and R D expenses,
respectively. We do not expect to incur any additional costs in connection with this plan.       Research and Development Expenses
      The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our R D expenses (in thousands):   
   
    R D expenses
consist primarily of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, clinical studies performed by contract research organizations, materials and supplies, licenses and fees, milestone payments under collaboration
arrangements and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities-related costs.      R D expenses for 2010
increased by $133.0 million, or 14%, compared to 2009, due primarily to impairment charges of $136.0 million that we recorded related to IPR D assets acquired from CV Therapeutics, $23.5 million of clinical studies expenses related to increased
HIV research activities and $16.1 million of compensation and benefits expenses. The majority of the impairment charge related to our GS 9667 program, a product candidate that was in Phase 1 clinical studies for the treatment of diabetes and
hypertriglyceridemia, which was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to unfavorable results from pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics tests that demonstrated limited effectiveness of the compound in patients. Given these results, we do not
believe it has alternative future uses for us or other market participants. The increase in R D expenses was partially offset by $37.0 million due to the timing of certain clinical studies and $30.3 million of lower R D expense reimbursement
related to our collaboration with Tibotec.      R D expenses in 2009 increased by $218.2 million, or 30%, compared to 2008,
due primarily to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $88.8 million driven by higher headcount related to the growth of our business, the R D expense reimbursement related to our collaboration with Tibotec of $52.4 million and
increased clinical study expenses of $23.9 million. The increase in compensation and benefits expenses was also driven by severance and termination benefits associated with our restructuring activities related to our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.
     In 2011, we expect R D expenses to increase over 2010 levels due to increased spending on our internal and collaborative
R D efforts as we anticipate that some of our product candidates will progress into more advanced clinical studies as well as adding more clinical development programs to our pipeline.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

    Selling, General and Administrative Expenses    
  The following table summarizes the period over period changes in our SG A expenses (in thousands):   
   
    SG A expenses in
2010 increased by $97.7 million or 10%, compared to 2009, due primarily to increased compensation and benefits expenses of $36.3 million as a result of higher headcount to support our expanding commercial activities, increased contract and
professional services expenses of $27.3 million driven primarily by our expanding sales and marketing activities and $18.1 million related to facilities and equipment expenses.   
  SG A expenses in 2009 increased by $149.3 million or 19%, compared to 2008, due primarily to increased compensation and benefits
expenses of $75.4 million driven by higher headcount related to the growth of our business, increased contract and professional services expenses of $46.6 million driven primarily by our expanding sales and marketing activities and $5.8 million
related to certain contract termination costs. The increase in compensation and benefits expenses was also driven by severance and termination benefits associated with our restructuring activities related to our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.
     In 2011, we expect SG A expenses to increase over 2010 levels due to increased investment to support the continued growth
in all of our franchises. We believe we have the appropriate infrastructure to support the growth of our business in 2011.       Interest and
Other Income, Net       We recorded interest and other income, net, of $60.3 million, $42.4 million and $59.4 million in 2010,
2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in interest and other income, net, in 2010 compared to 2009 was due primarily to decreased costs related to our hedging activities. The decrease in interest and other income, net, in 2009 compared to 2008
was due primarily to decreased interest income of $40.6 million driven by a reduction in the average yield of our investment portfolio as a result of lower interest rates, partially offset by an increase in net foreign currency exchange gains of
$15.7 million.       Interest Expense       Our interest expense was $109.0 million, $69.7 million and $65.2 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The increase in interest expense in 2010 compared to 2009 was due primarily to the issuance
of our convertible senior notes for $2.46 billion, net of issuance costs, in July 2010. The increase in interest expense in 2009 compared to 2008 was due primarily to the effect of accreting the debt discount on our convertible notes due in 2011 and
2013 as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt, as a result of adopting certain accounting guidance.       Provision for
Income Taxes       Our provision for income taxes was $1.02 billion, $876.4 million and $702.4 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The 2010 effective tax rate of 26.2% differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to tax credits and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the
United States, partially offset by state taxes. We do not provide for U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings of our foreign operations that are intended to be permanently reinvested.   
  The 2009 effective tax rate of 25.0% differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due primarily to tax credits, the resolution of
certain tax positions with tax authorities and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, partially offset by state taxes and the revaluation of certain state tax assets
related to the integration of CV Therapeutics.   
         66   

Table of Contents  

   The 2008 effective tax rate of 26.3% differs from the U.S. federal statutory rate of 35% due
primarily to tax credits, the resolution of certain tax positions with tax authorities and certain operating earnings from non-U.S. subsidiaries that are considered indefinitely invested outside the United States, partially offset by state taxes.
      Liquidity and Capital Resources       The following table summarizes our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, our working capital and our cash flow activities as of the end of, and for each of, the periods presented (in
thousands):       
     Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable
Securities       Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities totaled $5.32 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase
of $1.41 billion or 36% from December 31, 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to net cash provided by operations of $2.83 billion and proceeds of $2.46 billion from the issuance of convertible senior notes, net of issuance costs,
partially offset by $4.02 billion used to repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase programs.      Cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities totaled $3.90 billion at December 31, 2009, an increase of $665.2 million or 21% from December 31, 2008. This increase was primarily attributable to net cash provided by operations of $3.08 billion and
proceeds from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans of $222.7 million, partially offset by the following:       

cash used to acquire CV Therapeutics of $1.13 billion, net of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities acquired from CV Therapeutics of $245.4
million;          

$998.5 million used to repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase program; and      

$305.5 million used to extinguish the convertible senior notes we assumed in our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.      
   Working Capital       Working
capital was $3.24 billion at December 31, 2010, an increase of $302.2 million or 10% from working capital as of December 31, 2009. This increase was primarily attributable to:   

an increase of $441.7 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities;      
         67   

Table of Contents  

an increase of $232.4 million in accounts receivable, net, primarily driven by increased product sales; and      

an increase of $152.0 million in inventories, due primarily to the purchase of efavirenz at its estimated net selling price from Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company (BMS).         This increase was partially offset by an increase of $640.8 million in the current portion
of convertible senior notes, net and other long-term obligations, due to the reclassification of our convertible senior notes due in 2011 to current liabilities.      Working capital was $2.94 billion at December 31, 2009, a decrease of $116.5 million or 4% from working capital as of December 31, 2008. This decrease was primarily attributable to:   

an increase of $209.3 million in accounts payable, due primarily to the purchase of efavirenz at its estimated net selling price from BMS; and

a decrease of $133.1 million in cash, cash equivalents and short-term marketable securities since we held a higher proportion of long-term marketable
securities as of December 31, 2009 compared to December 31, 2008.         This decrease from 2008 to 2009
was partially offset by an increase of $366.1 million in our accounts receivable, net, driven primarily by increased product sales.       Cash
Provided by Operating Activities       Cash provided by operating activities of $2.83 billion in 2010 primarily related to net
income of $2.89 billion, adjusted for non-cash items such as $265.5 million of depreciation and amortization expenses, $200.0 million of stock-based compensation expenses, $136.0 million of IPR D impairment expenses and $82.1 million of tax
benefits from employee stock plans, partially offset by $680.4 million of net cash outflow related to changes in operating assets and liabilities and $81.6 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises which we reclassified to cash used
in financing activities.      Cash provided by operating activities of $3.08 billion in 2009 primarily related to net income of
$2.63 billion, adjusted for non-cash items such as $180.7 million of stock-based compensation expenses and $148.4 million of amortization expenses. As a result of our adoption of the guidance for our joint ventures with BMS on January 1, 2009,
we reclassified the change in noncontrolling interest from cash provided by operating activities to cash used in financing activities.      Cash provided by operating activities of $2.14 billion in 2008 primarily related to net income of $1.97 billion, adjusted for non-cash items such as $209.5 million of tax benefits from employee stock
plans and $153.4 million of stock-based compensation expenses. This was partially offset by $191.9 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises which we reclassified to cash used in financing activities.   
   Cash Used in Investing Activities       Cash used in investing activities in 2010 was $1.94 billion, driven by a net use of $1.78 billion in purchases of marketable securities, $91.0 million used in our acquisition of CGI and $61.9 million of
capital expenditures.      Cash used in investing activities in 2009 was $2.22 billion, driven by cash used for our acquisition of
CV Therapeutics of $1.25 billion (net of cash acquired), a net use of $738.0 million in purchases of marketable securities and $230.1 million of capital expenditures for the year. Capital expenditures in 2009 included the purchase of an office
building and approximately 30 acres of land located in Foster City, California.      Cash used in investing activities in 2008 was
$178.8 million, driven primarily by a net use of $53.0 million in purchases of marketable securities and $115.0 million of capital expenditures for the year.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

    Cash Used in Financing Activities    
  Cash used in financing activities in 2010 was $1.34 billion, driven primarily by the $4.02 billion used to repurchase our common stock
under our stock repurchase programs and $362.6 million used to purchase note hedges related to our convertible senior notes due in 2014 and 2016. The cash outflows were partially offset by $2.46 billion in proceeds from the issuance of convertible
senior notes, net of issuance costs, $155.4 million in proceeds from the sale of warrants related to our convertible senior notes and $221.2 million in proceeds from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans.   
  Cash used in financing activities in 2009 was $1.05 billion, driven primarily by the $998.5 million used to repurchase our common stock
under our stock repurchase program and the $305.5 million used to extinguish the convertible senior notes assumed from the acquisition of CV Therapeutics. The cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $222.7 million from issuances of common
stock under our employee stock plans.      Cash used in financing activities in 2008 was $1.47 billion, driven primarily by the
$1.97 billion used to repurchase our common stock under our stock repurchase program. The cash outflows were partially offset by proceeds of $246.1 million that we received from issuances of common stock under our employee stock plans as well as
$191.9 million of excess tax benefits from stock option exercises.       Other Information    
  Under our current three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program authorized by our Board in May 2010, we repurchased $3.02 billion of
our common stock through December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, the remaining authorized amount of stock repurchases that may be made under our $5.00 billion repurchase program was $1.98 billion. In May 2010, we had completed the
$1.00 billion stock repurchase program previously authorized by our Board in January 2010. For the year, we utilized a total of $4.02 billion of cash to repurchase and retire 109.9 million shares of our common stock at an average purchase price
of $36.57 per share.      In January 2011, our Board authorized an additional three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program
which will commence upon the completion of our existing program authorized in May 2010. We intend to use the additional authorization to repurchase our shares from time to time to offset the dilution created by shares issued under employee
stock plans and to repurchase shares opportunistically.      Under our amended and restated credit agreement, we, along with our
wholly-owned subsidiary, Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation, may borrow up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. The credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit. During the
year, we borrowed and repaid a $500.0 million loan under this revolving credit facility. Loans under the credit agreement bear interest at an interest rate of either LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 20 basis points to 32 basis points or the base
rate, as described in the credit agreement. The credit agreement will terminate in December 2012 and all unpaid borrowings thereunder shall be due and payable at that time. We may reduce the commitments and may prepay loans under the credit
agreement in whole or in part without penalty, subject to certain conditions. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $1.25 billion was available to be drawn down under this credit agreement.   
  In July 2010, we issued $2.50 billion of convertible senior notes in a private placement and purchased convertible note hedges as
well as sold warrants for a net cost of $207.2 million. The cost of the convertible note hedges will be tax deductible over the life of the notes. The convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce the potential economic dilution
upon future conversions of the notes by effectively increasing our conversion prices for the notes. We have used and will continue to use the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible notes to repurchase shares of our common stock and repay
existing indebtedness.      We believe that our existing capital resources, supplemented by cash generated from our operations,
will be adequate to satisfy our capital needs for the foreseeable future. Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors, including but not limited to the following:   

the commercial performance of our current and future products;      
         69   

Table of Contents  

the progress and scope of our R D efforts, including preclinical studies and clinical trials;      

the cost, timing and outcome of regulatory reviews;          

the expansion of our sales and marketing capabilities;      

administrative expenses;          

the possibility of acquiring additional manufacturing capabilities or office facilities;      

the possibility of acquiring other companies or new products;      

the establishment of additional collaborative relationships with other companies; and      

costs associated with the defense, settlement and adverse results of litigation and government investigations.      
  We may in the future require additional funding, which could be in the form of proceeds from equity or debt financings. If such funding
is required, we cannot assure that it will be available to us on favorable terms, if at all.       Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
      We do not have any off balance sheet arrangements.       Contractual Obligations       Our contractual obligations consist of debt
obligations, operating leases, capital commitments, purchase obligations for active pharmaceutical ingredients and inventory-related items and clinical trials contracts. The following table summarizes our significant enforceable and legally binding
obligations, future commitments and obligations related to all contracts that we are likely to continue regardless of the fact that certain of these obligations may be cancelable as of December 31, 2010 (in thousands):   

(2)     
    At December 31, 2010, we had firm capital project commitments of approximately $27.3 million primarily relating to enterprise software purchase
commitments and facilities improvement projects.      

(3)     
    At December 31, 2010, we had firm purchase commitments related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory-related items. These
amounts include minimum purchase requirements and actual purchases are expected to significantly exceed these amounts.      

(4)     
    In addition to the above, we have committed to make potential future milestone payments to third parties as part of licensing, collaboration and
development arrangements. Payments under these agreements generally become due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental, regulatory and/or commercial milestones. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor
reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheets and have not been included in the table above.      
         70   

Table of Contents  

(5)     
    At December 31, 2010, we had several clinical studies in various clinical trial phases. Our most significant clinical trial expenditures are to
CROs. Although all of our material contracts with CROs are cancelable, we historically have not cancelled such contracts. These amounts reflect commitments based on existing contracts and do not reflect any future modifications to, or terminations
of, existing contracts or anticipated or potential new contracts.         We had total gross unrecognized tax
benefit liabilities including interest and penalties of $143.7 million as of December 31, 2010. We believe that it is reasonably possible that our unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $6.0 million in the next 12 months as we
expect to have clarification from the tax authorities around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement,
if any, with the respective tax authorities. Such amounts were included in long-term income taxes payable and non current deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and have not been included in the table above.   
   Recent Accounting Pronouncements       In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued new standards for revenue recognition for agreements with multiple deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of when
the individual deliverables included in a multiple element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new standards modify the manner in which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately
identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new standards are effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2011; however, early adoption is permitted. The
adoption of these standards will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In December 2010, in
response to the pharmaceutical excise tax mandated by healthcare reform legislation adopted in the United States, the FASB issued a new standard to address how pharmaceutical manufacturers should recognize and classify this tax in their income
statements. Effective 2011, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of the pharmaceutical excise tax, calculated based on select government sales for the preceding calendar year as a
percentage of total industry government sales. The new standard clarifies that the pharmaceutical excise tax shall be presented as an operating expense and that the liability related to the tax shall be estimated and recorded in full upon the first
qualifying sale with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to expense generally using a straight-line method of allocation. The new standard is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2011. We estimate the 2011 impact of
the pharmaceutical excise tax to be between $30 $50 million, which will be classified as SG A expense in our Consolidated Financial Statements.      Also in December 2010, the FASB issued an update to its existing standard for business combinations to address the pro forma financial disclosure requirements for business combinations. The updated
standard specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had
occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period. The updated standard is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of 2011; however, early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard will not have a
material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK          Foreign Currency Exchange Risk       Our operations include manufacturing and
sales activities in the United States, Canada and Ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the United States, including Europe and Asia Pacific. As a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as
changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. Our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and various
foreign currencies,   
         71   

Table of Contents  

the most significant of which is the Euro. When the U.S. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. Conversely,
when the U.S. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. Overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker U.S. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger U.S.
dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business.      A significant percentage of
our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. We enter into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency
denominated sales. We also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash
is collected or paid. In general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged.      The following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2010. We had no
foreign currency exchange option contracts outstanding at December 31, 2010. All contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. Weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of U.S. dollars per foreign currency. Fair values
represent estimated settlement amounts at December 31, 2010 (notional amounts and fair values in U.S. dollars and in thousands):   
   Foreign Currency Exchange Forward Contracts        
    The total notional amount of $3.55 billion and total fair value relating to our net asset of $25.9 million
on our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at December 31, 2010 is comparable to the total notional amount of $3.45 billion and total fair value relating to our net liability of $21.5 million on our open foreign currency exchange
forward contracts at December 31, 2009.       Interest Rate Risk    
  Our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate
risk. With respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued
by the U.S. government. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows:       

safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk;      

liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and      

competitive after-tax rate of return.      
         72   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our
interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at December 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands):       
     
    In July 2010, we issued convertible senior notes due in 2014 (2014 Notes) and 2016 (2016 Notes) in a private
placement pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 1.00% and 1.625% for the 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, respectively, and may be converted into shares of our common stock
subject to certain circumstances.       Credit Risk       As of December 31, 2010, we held approximately $70.8 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities. Our auction rate securities comprised
approximately 1% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of December 31, 2010. In 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for our auction rate securities for which the underlying assets are comprised of student
loans. Most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated AAA, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy, supported by the federal government as part of the
Federal Family Education Loan Program and over-collateralized. Our auction rate securities reset every seven to 14 days with maturity dates ranging from 2025 through 2040 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.43% to 1.19%. As of
December 31, 2010, our auction rate securities continued to earn interest.      If auctions continue to fail for securities
in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. However, based on our total cash and marketable securities
position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we believe that we will be able to hold these securities until there is a recovery in the auction market and the related securities, which
may be at final maturity. As a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital.   
  In light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continue to review our cash equivalents and
marketable securities carefully and strive to invest prudently. We believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity, has helped protect us
from many of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other strategic opportunities.      We are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales. Our accounts receivable balance at December 31, 2010 was $1.62 billion, compared to $1.39 billion at
December 31, 2009. The majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the United States and Europe. To date,   
         73   

Table of Contents  

we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable. We believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate at December 31, 2010.

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA         The financial statements required by this item are set forth beginning at page 88 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are incorporated herein by reference.   

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE      
  Not applicable.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES      
  (a) Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures      An evaluation as of December 31, 2010 was carried out under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the
effectiveness of our  disclosure controls and procedures,  which are defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), as controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to
ensure that the information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange
Commission s rules and forms, and that such information is accumulated and communicated to the company s management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding
required disclosure. Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at December 31, 2010.   
  (b) Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting   
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined
in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our internal control system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. All internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and can provide only reasonable assurance that the objectives of the internal control system are met.   
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). Based on our evaluation, we concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2010.      Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young LLP, has audited our Consolidated Financial Statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and have issued a report on the
effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010. Their report on the audit of internal control over financial reporting appears below.   
  (c) Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting      Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, has evaluated any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended
December 31, 2010, and has concluded that there was no change during such quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.   
         74   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by
the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Gilead Sciences, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that,
in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance
regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, Gilead Sciences, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2010, based on the COSO criteria.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the 2010 consolidated financial statements of Gilead Sciences, Inc. and our report dated February 28, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   
  /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 28, 2011   
         75   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         Not
applicable.       PART III        

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE         The information required by this Item concerning our directors and executive officers is incorporated by reference to the sections of our Definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A in connection with our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the Proxy Statement) under the headings  Nominees,   Director Not Standing for Re-Election,   Qualification of
Nominees,   Board Committees and Meetings,   Executive Officers,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.       Our written Code of Ethics applies to all of our directors and employees, including our executive officers, including without limitation our principal executive officer, principal financial officer,
principal accounting officer or controller or persons performing similar functions. The Code of Ethics is available on our website at http://www.gilead.com in the Investors section under  Corporate Governance.  Changes to or waivers of the
Code of Ethics will be disclosed on the same website. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any amendment to, or waiver of, any provision of the Code of Ethics by disclosing such information on
the same website.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings
 Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,   Compensation Committee Report,  and  Compensation of Non-Employee Board Members.    

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS      
  The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings
 Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity Compensation Plans.        

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement under the headings  Nominees,   Director Not Standing for Re-Election and
 Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions.        

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES         The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement under the heading  Principal Accountant Fees and Services.    
         76   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:      (1) Index list to Consolidated Financial Statements:       

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

87  

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    

88  

Consolidated Statements of Income    

89  

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    

90  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

91  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

92  
           (2)
Schedule II is included on page 140 of this report. All other schedules are omitted because they are not required or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.   
  (3) Exhibits.      The following exhibits are filed herewith or incorporated by reference:       

Exhibit Footnote    
      
   Exhibit Number   
      
     Description of Document     
 
  (1)  
      
    2.1  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger among Registrant, Apex Merger Sub, Inc. and CV Therapeutics, Inc., dated as of March 12, 2009   

+(2)  
      
    2.2  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger among Registrant, Cougar Merger Sub, Inc. and CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc., dated as of June 23, 2010   

+      
      
    2.3  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger among Registrant, Arroyo Merger Sub, Inc. and Arresto Biosciences, Inc., dated as of December 19, 2010   

(1)  
      
    2.4  
      
  Stockholder Agreement by and between Registrant and Louis G. Lange, dated as of March 12, 2009   

(3)  
      
    3.1  
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant, as amended through May 8, 2008   

(4)  
      
    3.2  
      
  Certificate of Designation of the Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(5)  
      
    3.3  
      
  Certificate of Amendment to Certificate of Designation of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of Registrant   

(6)  
      
    3.4  
      
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant, as amended and restated on October 24, 2008   

4.1  
      
  Reference is made to Exhibit 3.1, Exhibit 3.2, Exhibit 3.3 and Exhibit 3.4   

(7)  
      
    4.2  
      
  Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between Registrant and ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC, dated October 21, 1999   

(8)  
      
    4.3  
      
  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated
October 29, 2003   

(9)  
      
    4.4  
      
  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Rights Agreement between Registrant and Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), dated
May 11, 2006    
         77   

Table of Contents  

78   

Table of Contents  

79   

Table of Contents  

80   

Table of Contents  

81   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Footnote    
      
   Exhibit Number   
      
     Description of Document     

+(37)  
      
  10.77  
      
  Royalty Sale Agreement by and among Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust   Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of Royalty Pharma,
dated July 18, 2005   

+(37)  
      
  10.78  
      
  Amended and Restated License Agreement between Registrant, Emory University and Investors Trust   Custodial Services (Ireland) Limited, solely in its capacity as Trustee of
Royalty Pharma, dated July 21, 2005.   

+(38)  
      
  10.79  
      
  License Agreement between Japan Tobacco Inc. and Registrant, dated March 22, 2005   

+(39)  
      
  10.80  
      
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to Myogen, Inc.) and Abbott Deutschland Holding GmbH dated October 8, 2001   

+(39)  
      
  10.81  
      
  License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Syntex (U.S.A.) Inc., dated March 27, 1996   

+(40)  
      
  10.82  
      
  First Amendment to License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Syntex (U.S.A.) Inc., dated July 3, 1997   

(40)  
      
  10.83  
      
  Amendment No. 2 to License Agreement between Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Syntex (U.S.A.) Inc., dated November 30. 1999   

+(41)  
      
  10.84  
      
  Amendment No. 4 to Collaboration and License Agreement with Registrant (as successor to CV Therapeutics, Inc.) and Roche Palo Alto LLC (successor in interest by merger to Syntex
(U.S.A.) Inc.), dated June 20, 2006   

+(42)  
      
  10.85  
      
  License and Collaboration Agreement by and among Registrant, Gilead Sciences Limited and Tibotec Pharmaceuticals, dated July 16, 2009   

+(43)  
      
  10.86  
      
  Master Clinical and Commercial Supply Agreement between Gilead World Markets, Limited, Registrant and Patheon Inc., dated January 1, 2003   

+(37)  
      
  10.87  
      
  Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama), Ltd., dated
July 17, 2003   

+(44)  
      
  10.88  
      
  Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., dated May 10,
2007   

+(29)  
      
  10.89  
      
  Addendum to Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and PharmaChem Technologies (Grand Bahama) Ltd., dated
December 5, 2008   

+      
      
  10.90  
      
  Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement by and between Gilead Sciences Limited and Ampac Fine Chemicals LLC, dated November 3, 2010   

+(35)  
      
  10.91  
      
  Restated and Amended Toll Manufacturing Agreement between Gilead Sciences Limited, Registrant and Nycomed GmbH (formerly ALTANA Pharma Oranienburg GmbH), dated
November 7, 2005   

+(12)  
      
  10.92  
      
  Emtricitabine Manufacturing Supply Agreement between Gilead Sciences Limited and Degussa AG, dated June 6, 2006   

+(2)  
      
  10.93  
      
  Amendment No. 1 to Emtricitabine Manufacturing Supply Agreement between Gilead Sciences Limited and Evonik Degussa GmbH (formerly known as Degussa AG), dated April 30,
2010   

(29)  
      
  10.94  
      
  Purchase and Sale Agreement and Escrow Instructions between Electronics for Imaging, Inc. and Registrant, dated October 23,
2008    
         82   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 12, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(2)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.

(3)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 9, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(4)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 22, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(5)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(6)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(7)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 22, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(8)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(10)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 25, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(11)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 2, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(12)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(13)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K also filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

(14)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.

83   

Table of Contents  

(16)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-55680), as amended, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(17)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference.

(18)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 11, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(19)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K/A filed on February 22, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(20)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

(21)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

(22)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

(23)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(24)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

(25)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K first filed on December 19, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.

(26)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference.

(28)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2001, and incorporated herein by reference.

(29)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

(30)  
  Information is included in Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 25, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference.     

(31)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference.

(32)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.

(33)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference.

(34)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, and incorporated herein by reference.

(35)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(36)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q/A filed on November 3, 1999, and incorporated herein by reference.

(37)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(38)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2005, and incorporated herein by reference.

(41)  
  Filed as an exhibit to CV Therapeutics, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, and incorporated herein by reference.
    
         84   

Table of Contents  

(42)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference.

(43)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2003, and incorporated herein by reference.

(44)  
  Filed as an exhibit to Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 7, 2007, and incorporated herein by reference.     

The Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) contains representations and warranties of Registrant, Cougar Merger Sub, Inc. and CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
made solely to each other as of specific dates. Those representations and warranties were made solely for purposes of the Merger Agreement and may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by Registrant, Cougar Merger Sub,
Inc. and CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Moreover, some of those representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date, may be subject to a standard of materiality provided for in the Merger Agreement and have been used
for the purpose of allocating risk among Registrant, Cougar Merger Sub, Inc. and CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. rather than establishing matters as facts.     

The Agreement and Plan of Merger (the Merger Agreement) contains representations and warranties of Registrant, Arroyo Merger Sub, Inc. and Arresto Biosciences, Inc.
made solely to each other as of specific dates. Those representations and warranties were made solely for purposes of the Merger Agreement and may be subject to important qualifications and limitations agreed to by Registrant, Arroyo Merger Sub,
Inc. and Arresto Biosciences, Inc. Moreover, some of those representations and warranties may not be accurate or complete as of any specified date, may be subject to a standard of materiality provided for in the Merger Agreement and have been used
for the purpose of allocating risk among Registrant, Arroyo Merger Sub, Inc. and Arresto Biosciences, Inc. rather than establishing matters as facts.     

*  
  Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.     

**  
  This certification accompanies the Form 10-Q to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and is not to be incorporated by
reference into any filing of Registrant under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-Q), irrespective of any general incorporation language
contained in such filing.     

***  
  XBRL information is furnished and not filed or a part of a registration statement or prospectus for purposes of sections 11 or 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of
1933, as amended, is deemed not filed for purposes of section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and otherwise is not subject to liability under these sections.     

+  
  Certain confidential portions of this Exhibit were omitted by means of marking such portions with an asterisk (the Mark). This Exhibit has been filed separately with
the Secretary of the SEC without the Mark pursuant to Registrant s Application Requesting Confidential Treatment under Rule 24b-2 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.     
         85   

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        Years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008        CONTENTS

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm     

87  

Audited Consolidated Financial Statements:   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    

88  

Consolidated Statements of Income    

89  

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity    

90  

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    

91  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    

92  
        
         86   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
      The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Gilead Sciences, Inc.      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Gilead Sciences, Inc. as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders 
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These financial statements and schedule are the
responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.   
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Gilead Sciences, Inc. at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.      As discussed in Note 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for
business combinations effective January 1, 2009.      We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Gilead Sciences, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   
  /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 28, 2011   
         87   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   Consolidated Balance Sheets        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   Consolidated Statements of Income        (in thousands, except per share amounts)        
    See accompanying notes.   
         89   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying notes.   
         90   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (in thousands)        
    See accompanying
notes.   
         91   

Table of Contents  

      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        

1.   
   ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES          Overview       Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead, we, us or
our), incorporated in Delaware on June 22, 1987, is a biopharmaceutical company that discovers, develops and commercializes innovative therapeutics in areas of unmet medical need. Our mission is to advance the care of patients suffering from
life threatening diseases worldwide. Headquartered in Foster City, California, we have operations in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific. We market products in the HIV/AIDS, liver disease, respiratory and cardiovascular/metabolic therapeutic
areas. Our product portfolio is comprised of Atripla      (efavirenz 600 mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), Truvada      (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), Viread      (tenofovir disoproxil fumarate) and Emtriva      (emtricitabine) for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; Hepsera      (adefovir dipivoxil) and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B; AmBisome      (amphotericin B liposome for injection) for the treatment of severe fungal infections; Letairis      (ambrisentan) for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH); Ranexa      (ranolazine) for the treatment of chronic angina; Vistide      (cidofovir injection) for the treatment of cytomegalovirus infection and Cayston      (aztreonam for inhalation solution) as a treatment to improve respiratory symptoms in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients with  Pseudomonas aeruginosa  ( P.
aeruginosa ).      In addition, we also sell and distribute certain products through our corporate partners
under royalty-paying collaborative agreements. For example, F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd (together with Hoffmann-La Roche Inc., Roche) markets Tamiflu      (oseltamivir phosphate) for the treatment and prevention of influenza; GlaxoSmithKline Inc. (GSK) markets Hepsera and Viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
in certain territories outside of the United States; GSK also markets Volibris      (ambrisentan) outside of the
United States for the treatment of PAH; Astellas Pharma US, Inc. markets AmBisome for the treatment of severe fungal infections in the United States and Canada; Astellas US LLC markets Lexiscan      (regadenoson) injection in the United States for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI); Rapidscan Pharma Solutions,
Inc. markets Rapiscan (regadenoson) in certain territories outside of the United States for the inducement of pharmacological stress and/or vasodilation of the coronary vasculature strictly for purposes of diagnosing cardiovascular disease; Menarini
International Operations Luxembourg SA markets Ranexa in certain territories outside of the United States for the treatment of chronic angina; and Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco) markets Truvada, Viread and Emtriva in Japan.   
   Basis of Presentation    
  The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Gilead, our wholly-owned subsidiaries and our joint ventures
with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (BMS), for which we are the primary beneficiary. We record a noncontrolling interest in our Consolidated Financial Statements to reflect BMS s interest in the joint ventures. All intercompany transactions have
been eliminated. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the results of companies acquired by us from the date of each acquisition for the applicable reporting periods.       Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities       On January 1, 2010, we
adopted amended guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities. The amended guidance eliminates a mandatory quantitative approach to determine whether a variable interest gives the entity a controlling financial interest in a variable
interest entity in favor of a qualitatively focused analysis. Additionally, the amended guidance requires an ongoing reassessment of whether the entity is a primary beneficiary. We adopted the provisions of this guidance on a prospective basis
for our joint ventures with BMS, which we consolidate because we are the primary beneficiary. The adoption of this guidance did not have any impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
         92   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
    Significant Accounting Policies, Estimates and Judgments    
  The preparation of these Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires us to make estimates and judgments that
affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates, including critical accounting policies or estimates related to revenue recognition,
intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts, prepaid royalties, clinical trial accruals, our tax provision and stock-based compensation. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other market specific and other relevant
assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may
differ significantly from these estimates.       Revenue Recognition        Product Sales       We recognize revenue from product sales when there is
persuasive evidence that an arrangement exists, delivery to the customer has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. Upon recognition of revenue from product sales, provisions are made for government
rebates such as Medicaid reimbursements, customer incentives such as cash discounts for prompt payment, distributor fees and expected returns of expired products, as appropriate.       Items Deducted from Gross Product Sales        Government Rebates
      We estimate reductions to our revenues for government-managed Medicaid programs as well as for certain other qualifying
federal, state and foreign government programs based on contractual terms, historical utilization rates, new information regarding changes in these programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the actual rebates, our
expectations regarding future utilization rates for these programs and, for our U.S. product sales, channel inventory data obtained from our major U.S. wholesalers in accordance with our inventory management agreements. Government rebates that are
invoiced directly to us are recorded in accrued government rebates on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. For qualified programs that can purchase our products through wholesalers at a lower contractual government price, the wholesalers charge back to
us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower contractual government price, which we record as allowances against accounts receivable.       Cash Discounts       We estimate cash discounts based on contractual terms,
historical utilization rates and our expectations regarding future utilization rates.       Distributor Fees    
  Under our inventory management agreements with our significant U.S. wholesalers, we pay the wholesalers a fee primarily for the compliance
of certain contractually determined covenants such as the maintenance of agreed upon inventory levels. These distributor fees are based on a contractually determined fixed percentage of sales.   
         93   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
    Product Returns    
  We do not provide our customers with a general right of product return, but permit returns if the product is damaged or defective when
received by the customer, or in the case of product sold in the Unites States and certain countries outside the United States, if the product has expired. We will accept returns for product that will expire within six months prior to or that have
expired up to one year after their expiration dates. Our estimates for expected returns of expired products are based primarily on an ongoing analysis of historical return patterns.   
   Royalty Revenues       Royalty revenue from sales of Lexiscan and AmBisome by Astellas US LLC and Astellas Pharma US, Inc., respectively, is recognized in the month following the month in which the corresponding sales occur.
Royalty revenue from sales of our other products is generally recognized when received, which is generally in the quarter following the quarter in which the corresponding sales occur.   
   Contract and Other Revenues       Revenue from non-refundable up-front license fees and milestone payments such as under a development collaboration or an obligation to supply product, is recognized as performance occurs and our
obligations are completed. In accordance with the specific terms of our obligations under these arrangements, revenue is recognized as the obligation is fulfilled or ratably over the development or manufacturing period. Revenue associated with
substantive at-risk milestones is recognized based upon the achievement of the milestones as defined in the respective agreements. Advance payments received in excess of amounts earned are classified as deferred revenue on our Consolidated Balance
Sheets.       Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and handling costs incurred for inventory purchases and product shipments are recorded in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statements of Income.   
   Research and Development Expenses       Major components of research and development (R D) expenses consist of personnel costs, including salaries, benefits and stock-based compensation, clinical studies performed by contract research
organizations (CROs), materials and supplies, licenses and fees, milestone payments under collaboration arrangements and overhead allocations consisting of various support and facilities related costs.   
  We charge R D costs, including clinical study costs, to expense when incurred .  Clinical study costs are a significant
component of R D expenses. Most of our clinical studies are performed by third-party CROs. We monitor levels of performance under each significant contract including the extent of patient enrollment and other activities through communications
with our CROs. We accrue costs for clinical studies performed by CROs over the service periods specified in the contracts and adjust our estimates, if required, based upon our ongoing review of the level of effort and costs actually incurred by the
CROs. We validate our accruals quarterly with our vendors and perform detailed reviews of the activities related to our significant contracts. Based upon the results of these validation processes, we assess the appropriateness of our accruals and
make any adjustments we deem necessary to ensure that our expenses reflect the actual effort incurred by the CROs.      All of our
material CRO contracts are terminable by us upon written notice and we are generally only liable for actual effort expended by the CRO and certain non-cancelable expenses incurred at any point of termination.
  
         94   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

Amounts paid in advance related to uncompleted services will be refunded to us if a contract is terminated. Some contracts may include additional termination payments that become due and payable
if we terminate the contract. Such additional termination payments are only recorded if it becomes probable that a contract will be terminated.   
   Advertising Expenses       We
expense the costs of advertising, including promotional expenses, as incurred. Advertising expenses were $116.5 million in 2010, $108.1 million in 2009 and $96.2 million in 2008.       Net Income Per Share Attributable to Gilead Common Stockholders       Basic net
income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders is calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our common stock outstanding during the period. Diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders is
calculated based on the weighted-average number of shares of our common stock outstanding and other dilutive securities outstanding during the period. The potential dilutive shares of our common stock resulting from the assumed exercise of
outstanding stock options, restricted stock units and performance shares and the assumed exercise of warrants relating to the convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes), 2013 (2013 Notes), 2014 (2014 Notes) and 2016 (2016 Notes)
(collectively, the Notes) are determined under the treasury stock method.      Because the principal amount of the Notes will be
settled in cash, only the conversion spread relating to the Notes is included in our calculation of diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders. Our common stock resulting from the assumed settlement of the conversion
spread of the Notes has a dilutive effect when the average market price of our common stock during the period exceeds the conversion prices of $38.75, $38.10, $45.08 and $45.41 for the 2011 Notes, 2013 Notes, 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes, respectively.
For the years ended 2010, 2009 and 2008, the average market prices of our common stock exceeded the conversion prices of the 2011 and 2013 Notes and the dilutive effects are included in the accompanying table.   
  Warrants relating to the 2011 Notes, 2013 Notes, 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes have a dilutive effect when the average market price of our
common stock during the period exceeds the warrants  exercise prices of $50.80, $53.90, $56.76 and $60.10, respectively. The average market prices of our common stock during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 did not exceed
the warrants  exercise prices relating to any of the Notes; therefore, these warrants did not have a dilutive effect on our net income per share for those periods.      Stock options to purchase approximately 22.5 million, 17.4 million and 11.4 million weighted-average shares of our common stock were outstanding during the years ended December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, but were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders because their effect was antidilutive.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table is a reconciliation of the numerator and denominator used in the
calculation of basic and diluted net income per share attributable to Gilead common stockholders (in thousands):       
     Stock-Based Compensation       Share-based payments to employees are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Income based on their fair values and the benefit of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost are
reported in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as a financing activity, rather than as an operating activity. The calculated pool of excess tax benefits is recorded as part of additional paid-in capital (APIC).   
   Cash and Cash Equivalents    
  We consider highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and an original maturity of three months or less on the
purchase date to be cash equivalents. We may enter into overnight repurchase agreements (repos) under which we purchase securities with an obligation to resell them the following day. Securities purchased under agreements to resell are recorded at
face value and reported as cash and cash equivalents. Under our investment policy, we may enter into repos with major banks and authorized dealers provided that such repos are collateralized by U.S. government securities with a fair value of at
least 102% of the fair value of securities sold to us. Other eligible instruments under our investment policy that are included in cash equivalents include commercial paper, money market funds and other bank obligations.   
   Marketable and Nonmarketable Securities       We determine the appropriate classification of our marketable securities, which consist primarily of debt securities and which include auction rate securities and variable rate demand obligations, at the
time of purchase and reevaluate such designation at each balance sheet date. All of our marketable securities are considered as available-for-sale and carried at estimated fair values and reported in either cash equivalents, short-term marketable
securities or long-term marketable securities. Unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from net income and reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders 
equity. Interest and other income, net, includes interest, dividends, amortization of purchase premiums and discounts, realized gains and losses on sales of securities and other-than-temporary declines in the fair value of securities, if any. The
cost of securities sold is based on the specific   
         96   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

identification method. We regularly review all of our investments for other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Our review includes the consideration of the cause of the impairment, including
the creditworthiness of the security issuers, the number of securities in an unrealized loss position, the severity and duration of the unrealized losses, whether we have the intent to sell the securities and whether it is more likely than not that
we will be required to sell the securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis. When we determine that the decline in fair value of an investment is below our accounting basis and this decline is other-than-temporary, we reduce the
carrying value of the security we hold and record a loss for the amount of such decline.      As a result of entering into
collaborations, from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We record these nonmarketable securities at cost in other noncurrent assets, less any amounts for other-than-temporary impairment. We regularly review our securities
for indicators of impairment. Investments in nonmarketable securities are not material for the periods presented.       Concentrations of Risk
      We are subject to credit risk from our portfolio of cash equivalents and marketable securities. Under our investment
policy, we limit amounts invested in such securities by credit rating, maturity, industry group, investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the U.S. government. We are not exposed to any significant concentrations of credit risk
from these financial instruments. The goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and a
competitive after-tax rate of return.      We are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product
sales. The majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the United States and Europe. To date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable. We believe that our
allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate at December 31, 2010.      Certain of the raw materials and components that we
utilize in our operations are obtained through single suppliers. Certain of the raw materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. Since the suppliers of key components and raw materials must be named in a new drug
application (NDA) filed with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a product, significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. If delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we
may be unable to ship our commercial products or to supply any of our product candidates for clinical trials.       Accounts Receivable
      Trade accounts receivable are recorded net of allowances for wholesaler chargebacks related to government rebate programs,
cash discounts for prompt payment, doubtful accounts and sales returns. Estimates for wholesaler chargebacks for government rebates, cash discounts and sales returns are based on contractual terms, historical trends and our expectations regarding
the utilization rates for these programs. Estimates for our allowance for doubtful accounts is determined based on existing contractual payment terms, historical payment patterns of our customers and individual customer circumstances, an analysis of
days sales outstanding by geographic region and a review of the local economic environment and its potential impact on government funding and reimbursement practices. Historically, the amounts of uncollectible accounts receivable that have been
written off have been insignificant and consistent with management s expectations.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
    Inventories       Inventories are recorded at the lower of cost or market, with cost determined on a first-in, first-out basis. We periodically review the composition of our inventories in order to identify obsolete,
slow-moving or otherwise unsaleable items. If unsaleable items are observed and there are no alternate uses for the inventory, we will record a write-down to net realizable value in the period that the impairment is first recognized.   
   Prepaid Royalties    
  Prepaid royalties are capitalized at cost, which initially is equivalent to the present value of the future royalty obligation that we
would expect to pay to the licensor on expected future levels of product sales incorporating the related technology. We review periodically the expected future sales levels of our products and any indicators that might require a write-down in the
net recoverable value of our asset or a change in the estimated life of the prepaid royalty. We amortize our prepaid royalties to cost of goods sold over the remaining life of the underlying patent based on an effective royalty rate derived from
forecasted future product sales incorporating the related technology. We review our effective royalty rate at least annually and prospectively adjust the effective rate based on significant new facts or circumstances that may arise from our review.
     Our prepaid royalties are primarily comprised of emtricitabine royalties we paid to Emory University (Emory) for the HIV
indication when we and Royalty Pharma purchased the royalty interest owned by Emory in 2005. Under the terms of the transaction, we and Royalty Pharma paid 65% and 35%, respectively, of the total purchase price of $525.0 million to Emory in exchange
for the elimination of the emtricitabine royalties due to Emory on worldwide net sales of products containing emtricitabine. As a result of this transaction, we capitalized as prepaid royalties our 65% share of the $525.0 million purchase price, or
$341.3 million. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had an unamortized prepaid royalty asset of $219.5 million and $245.0 million, respectively. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, $25.5 million, $29.9 million and $31.8 million were amortized to cost of
goods sold, respectively.       Property, Plant and Equipment       Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization are recognized using the straight-line method. Repairs and maintenance costs
are expensed as incurred. Estimated useful lives in years are as follows:       

Description    
      
   Estimated Useful Life    
 
    Buildings and improvements   
      
  20-35   
 
    Laboratory and manufacturing equipment   
      
  4-10   
 
    Office and computer equipment   
      
  3-7   
 
    Leasehold improvements   
      
  Shorter of useful life     or
lease term        Office and computer equipment includes capitalized software. We had unamortized capitalized
software costs of $22.5 million and $25.2 million on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Leasehold improvements and capitalized leased equipment are amortized over the shorter of the lease term or the
asset s useful life. Amortization of capitalized leased equipment is included in depreciation expense. Capitalized interest on construction in-progress is included in property, plant and equipment. Interest capitalized in 2010, 2009 and 2008
was not significant.   
         98   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets    
  Goodwill represents the excess of the consideration transferred over the estimated fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed
in a business combination. Other intangible assets primarily related to marketed products and purchased in-process research and development (IPR D) projects from our acquisitions of CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (CGI) in July 2010 and CV
Therapeutics, Inc. (CV Therapeutics) in April 2009, and are measured at their respective fair values as of the acquisition date. We do not amortize goodwill and other intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. We test goodwill and other
indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment on an annual basis and in between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the assets below their
carrying amounts.      Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are reviewed
for impairment when facts or circumstances suggest that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We amortize the intangible asset related to Ranexa, which we acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life using an
amortization rate derived from our forecasted future product sales for Ranexa. Our product sales forecasts are prepared annually and determined using our best estimates of future activity and consider such factors as historical and expected future
patient usage or uptake of our products, the introduction of complimentary or combination therapies or products and future product launch plans. If a previously unanticipated and significant change occurs to our sales forecasts, we will
prospectively update the rate used to amortize our intangible asset related to Ranexa which may increase future cost of goods sold, as that is where we record the amortization expense. We amortize the intangible asset related to Lexiscan, which we
also acquired from CV Therapeutics, over its estimated useful life to cost of goods sold on a straight-line basis. Given that current Lexiscan revenues consist of royalties received from a collaboration partner and our lack of ongoing access and
visibility into that partner s future sales forecasts, we cannot make a reasonable estimate of the amortization rate using a forecasted product sales approach.       Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       The carrying value of long-lived assets is
reviewed on a regular basis for the existence of facts or circumstances both internally and externally that may suggest impairment. Specific potential indicators of impairment include a significant decrease in the fair value of an asset, a
significant change in the extent or manner in which an asset is used or a significant physical change in an asset, a significant adverse change in legal factors or in the business climate that affects the value of an asset, an adverse action or
assessment by the FDA or another regulator, an accumulation of costs significantly in excess of the amount originally expected to acquire or construct an asset and operating or cash flow losses combined with a history of operating or cash flow
losses or a projection or forecast that demonstrates continuing losses associated with an income producing asset.      Should
there be an indication of impairment, we will test for recoverability by comparing the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset or asset group and its eventual disposition to the carrying amount of the
asset or asset group. Any excess of the carrying value of the asset or asset group over its estimated fair value will be recognized as an impairment loss.       Foreign Currency Translation, Transactions and Contracts       Adjustments
resulting from translating the financial statements of our foreign subsidiaries into U.S. dollars are excluded from the determination of net income and are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of
stockholders  equity. Net foreign currency exchange transaction gains or losses are included in interest and other income, net, on our Consolidated Statements of Income. Net transaction losses totaled $3.7 million, $16.4 million and $36.5
million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   We hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary
assets and liabilities as well as forecasted product sales using foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts. In general, the market risk related to these contracts is offset by corresponding gains and losses on the hedged transactions.
The credit risk associated with these contracts is driven by changes in interest and currency exchange rates and, as a result, varies over time. By working only with major banks and closely monitoring current market conditions, we limit the risk
that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform. We also limit our risk of loss by entering into contracts that permit net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is limited
to the amount of any unrecognized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair value) at the date of default. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes, nor do we hedge our net investment in
any of our foreign subsidiaries.       Fair Value of Financial Instruments    
  Our financial instruments consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, accounts receivable, foreign currency
exchange forward and option contracts, accounts payable, and short-term and long-term debt. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities and foreign currency exchange contracts that hedge accounts receivable and forecasted sales are reported at
their respective fair values on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. The carrying value and fair value of the Notes were $3.48 billion and $3.97 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. The carrying value and fair value of the Notes were
$1.16 billion and $1.58 billion, respectively as of December 31, 2009. The fair value of the Notes was based on their quoted market values. The remaining financial instruments are reported on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at amounts that
approximate current fair values.       Income Taxes       Our income tax provision is computed under the liability method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax basis of assets and
liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant estimates are required in determining our provision for income taxes. Some of these estimates are based on interpretations of
existing tax laws or regulations. Various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. These factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, our portion of
the non-tax deductible pharmaceutical excise tax that we will be required to pay starting in 2011 as a result of the enactment of U.S. healthcare reform legislation, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and
acquisitions, future levels of R D spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and
foreign income tax audits. The impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our consolidated net income.   
  We record liabilities related to uncertain tax positions in accordance with the guidance that clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in
income taxes recognized in an enterprise s financial statements by prescribing a minimum recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in
a tax return. We do not believe any such uncertain tax positions currently pending will have a material adverse effect on our Consolidated Financial Statements, although an adverse resolution of one or more of these uncertain tax positions in any
period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period.   
         100

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
    Recent Accounting Pronouncements    
  In October 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued new standards for revenue recognition for agreements with multiple
deliverables. These new standards impact the determination of when the individual deliverables included in a multiple element arrangement may be treated as separate units of accounting. Additionally, these new standards modify the manner in
which the transaction consideration is allocated across the separately identified deliverables by no longer permitting the residual method of allocating arrangement consideration. These new standards are effective for us beginning in the first
quarter of 2011; however, early adoption is permitted. The adoption of these standards will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.      In December 2010, in response to the pharmaceutical excise tax mandated by healthcare reform legislation adopted in the United States, the FASB issued a new standard to address how pharmaceutical
manufacturers should recognize and classify this tax in their income statements. Effective 2011, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of the pharmaceutical excise tax, calculated
based on select government sales for the preceding calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales. The new standard clarifies that the pharmaceutical excise tax shall be presented as an operating expense and that the liability
related to the tax shall be estimated and recorded in full upon the first qualifying sale with a corresponding deferred cost that is amortized to expense generally using a straight-line method of allocation. The new standard is effective for us
beginning in the first quarter of 2011. We estimate the 2011 impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be between $30 $50 million, which will be classified as selling, general and administrative expense in our Consolidated Financial
Statements.      Also in December 2010, the FASB issued an update to its existing standard for business combinations to address
the pro forma financial disclosure requirements for business combinations. The updated standard specifies that if a public entity presents comparative financial statements, the entity should disclose pro forma revenue and earnings of the
combined entity as though the business combination that occurred during the current year had occurred as of the beginning of the comparable prior annual reporting period. The updated standard is effective for us beginning in the first quarter of
2011; however, early adoption is permitted. The adoption of this standard will not have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements.       

2.   
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS      
  We determine the fair value of financial and non-financial assets and liabilities using the fair value hierarchy, which establishes three
levels of inputs that may be used to measure fair value, as follows:      Level 1 inputs which include quoted prices in active
markets for identical assets or liabilities;      Level 2 inputs which include observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs, such
as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially
the full term of the asset or liability; and      Level 3 inputs which include unobservable inputs that are supported by little or
no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the underlying asset or liability. Level 3 assets and liabilities include those whose fair value measurements are determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies or
similar valuation techniques, as well as significant management judgment or estimation.   
         101

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   Certain amounts within debt securities have been re-categorized in the accompanying
tables to conform to the current presentation. The following table summarizes, for assets or liabilities recorded at fair value, the respective fair value and the classification by level of input within the fair value hierarchy defined above (in
thousands):       
    Marketable securities, measured at fair value using Level 2 inputs, are primarily comprised of U.S.
government agencies and FDIC guaranteed securities and corporate debt securities. We review trading activity and pricing for these investments as of the measurement date. When sufficient quoted pricing for identical securities is not available, we
use market pricing and other observable market inputs for similar securities obtained from various third-party data providers. These inputs either represent quoted prices for similar assets in active markets or have been derived from observable
market data. This approach results in the Level 2 classification of these securities within the fair value hierarchy.   
         102

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table is a reconciliation of marketable securities measured at fair value
using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) (in thousands):       
    Our policy is to recognize transfers into or out of Level 3 classification as of the actual date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer. Marketable securities, measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs, are substantially comprised of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale investment portfolio. The underlying
assets of our auction rate securities consist of student loans. Although auction rate securities would typically be measured using Level 2 inputs, the failure of auctions and the lack of market activity and liquidity experienced since the beginning
of 2008 required that these securities be measured using Level 3 inputs. The fair value of our auction rate securities was determined using a discounted cash flow model that considered projected cash flows for the issuing trusts, underlying
collateral and expected yields. Projected cash flows were estimated based on the underlying loan principal, bonds outstanding and payout formulas. The weighted-average life over which the cash flows were projected considered the collateral
composition of the securities and related historical and projected prepayments. The underlying student loans have a weighted-average expected life of four to eight years. The discount rates used in our discounted cash flow model were based on market
conditions for comparable or similar term asset-backed and other fixed income securities, adjusted for an illiquidity discount. This resulted in an annual discount rate of 2.12%. Our auction rate securities reset every seven to 14 days with maturity
dates ranging from 2025 through 2040 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.43% to 1.19%. As of December 31, 2010, our auction rate securities continued to earn interest.   
  Our auction rate securities were recorded in long-term marketable securities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2010
and 2009. Although there continued to be failed auctions as well as lack of market activity and liquidity in 2010, we believe we had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of December 31, 2010 because we do not intend to
sell these securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis.   
         103

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

3.   
   AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE SECURITIES         The following table is a summary of available-for-sale debt and equity securities recorded in cash equivalents or marketable securities in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Estimated fair values of
available-for-sale securities are generally based on prices obtained from commercial pricing services (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the classification of the available-for-sale debt and equity securities on
our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):       
 
         104

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes our portfolio of available-for-sale debt securities by
contractual maturity (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the gross realized gains and losses related to sales of marketable securities
(in thousands):       
    The cost of securities
sold was determined based on the specific identification method.   
         105

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes our available-for-sale debt securities that were in a
continuous unrealized loss position, but were not deemed to be other-than-temporarily impaired (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, approximately 34% and 32%, respectively, of the total number of securities
were in an unrealized loss position. The gross unrealized losses for auction rate securities were caused by a higher discount rate used in the valuation of these securities as compared to the coupon rates of these securities. The gross unrealized
losses for the other securities were primarily the result of an increase in the yield-to-maturity of the underlying securities. No significant facts or circumstances have arisen to indicate that there has been any deterioration in the
creditworthiness of the issuers of these securities. Based on our review of these securities, we believe we had no other-than-temporary impairments on these securities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009 because we do not intend to sell these
securities and it is not more likely than not that we will be required to sell these securities before the recovery of their amortized cost basis.   
         106

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

4.   
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS         We operate in foreign countries, which exposes us to market risk associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations between the U.S. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of
which is the Euro. In order to manage this risk, we hedge a portion of our foreign currency exposures related to outstanding monetary assets and liabilities as well as forecasted product sales using foreign currency exchange forward and option
contracts. In general, the market risk related to these contracts is offset by corresponding gains and losses on the hedged transactions. The credit risk associated with these contracts is driven by changes in interest and currency exchange rates
and, as a result, varies over time. By working only with major banks and closely monitoring current market conditions, we limit the risk that counterparties to these contracts may be unable to perform. We also limit our risk of loss by entering into
contracts that permit net settlement at maturity. Therefore, our overall risk of loss in the event of a counterparty default is limited to the amount of any unrecognized gains on outstanding contracts (i.e., those contracts that have a positive fair
value) at the date of default. We do not enter into derivative contracts for trading purposes, nor do we hedge our net investment in any of our foreign subsidiaries.      We hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for certain monetary assets and liabilities of our foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in a non-functional currency. The
derivative instruments we use to hedge this exposure are not designated as hedges, and as a result, changes in their fair value are recorded in interest and other income, net on our Consolidated Statements of Income.   
  We hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations for forecasted product sales that are denominated in a
non-functional currency. The derivative instruments we use to hedge this exposure are designated as cash flow hedges and have maturity dates of 18 months or less. Upon executing a hedging contract and quarterly thereafter, we assess prospective
hedge effectiveness using a regression analysis which calculates the change in cash flow as a result of the hedge instrument. On a monthly basis, we assess retrospective hedge effectiveness using a dollar offset approach. We exclude time value from
our effectiveness testing and recognize changes in the time value of the hedge in interest and other income, net. The effective component of our hedge is recorded as an unrealized gain or loss on the hedging instrument in accumulated other
comprehensive income (OCI) within stockholders  equity. When the hedged forecasted transaction occurs, the hedge is de-designated and the unrealized gains or losses are reclassified into product sales. The majority of gains and losses related
to the hedged forecasted transactions reported in accumulated OCI at December 31, 2010 will be reclassified to product sales within 12 months.      We had notional amounts on foreign currency exchange contracts outstanding of $3.55 billion and $3.45 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
         107

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes information about the fair values of derivative
instruments on our Consolidated Balance Sheets (in thousands):       
    The following table summarizes the effect of our foreign currency exchange contracts on our Consolidated
Statements of Income (in thousands):       
 
         108

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

5.   
   ACQUISITIONS         On January
1, 2009, we adopted guidance for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree in a business combination. The guidance requires, for example, that IPR D be capitalized at fair
value as intangible assets at the time of acquisition and acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs be recognized separately from the business combination. We adopted the provisions of this guidance on a prospective basis and applied it
to our acquisitions of CGI in 2010 and CV Therapeutics in 2009, as discussed below.       CGI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.    
  In June 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire CGI for up to $120.0 million in cash, consisting of $91.0 million as an upfront
payment and up to $29.0 million of contingent consideration payable based on the achievement of clinical development milestones. This transaction closed on July 8, 2010, at which time CGI became a wholly-owned subsidiary. CGI was a
privately-held development stage pharmaceutical company based in Branford, Connecticut, primarily focused on small molecule chemistry and protein kinase biology. The lead preclinical compound from CGI s library of proprietary small molecule
kinase inhibitors targets spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) and could have unique applications for the treatment of serious inflammatory diseases, including rheumatoid arthritis. We believe the acquisition provides us with an opportunity to expand our
research efforts in an interesting and promising area of drug discovery.      The CGI acquisition was accounted for as a business
combination. The results of operations of CGI since July 8, 2010 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Income and were not significant.      The acquisition-date fair value of the total consideration transferred to acquire CGI was $102.1 million, and consisted of cash paid at or prior to closing of $91.0 million and contingent consideration of
$11.1 million.      The following table summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at July 8,
2010 (in thousands):       
     Intangible Assets       Intangible assets associated with in-process research and development (IPR D) projects relate to the preclinical Syk product candidate. Management estimated the acquisition-date fair value of
intangible assets related to IPR D to be $26.6 million. The estimated fair value was determined using the income approach, which discounts expected future cash flows to present value. We estimated the fair value using a present value discount
rate of 18%, which is based on the estimated weighted-average cost of capital for companies with profiles substantially similar to that of CGI. This is comparable to the estimated internal rate of return for CGI s operations and represents the
rate that market participants would use to value the intangible assets. The projected cash flows from the IPR D project was based on key assumptions such as: estimates of revenues and operating profits related to the project considering its
stage of development; the time and resources needed to complete the development and approval of the product candidate; the life of the potential commercialized product and   
         109

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

associated risks, including the inherent difficulties and uncertainties in developing a drug compound such as obtaining marketing approval from the FDA and other regulatory agencies; and risks
related to the viability of and potential alternative treatments in any future target markets. Intangible assets related to IPR D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated R D
efforts. During the period the assets are considered indefinite-lived, they will not be amortized but will be tested for impairment on an annual basis as well as between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in
circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the IPR D projects below their respective carrying amounts. If and when development is complete, which generally occurs if and when regulatory approval to market a product is
obtained, the associated assets would be deemed finite-lived and would then be amortized based on their respective estimated useful lives at that point in time.       Goodwill      The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values
assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is $70.1 million, which represents the goodwill amount resulting from the CGI acquisition. Management believes that the goodwill mainly represents the synergies expected from combining our
research and development operations as well as acquiring CGI s assembled workforce and other intangible assets that do not qualify for separate recognition. We recorded the goodwill as an intangible asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
the acquisition date. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis as well as between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the goodwill below
its carrying amount. As we have elected to treat the CGI acquisition as an asset acquisition for California state tax purposes, the goodwill resulting from the acquisition is deductible for California state income tax purposes, although such amounts
are not deductible for federal income tax purposes.      We do not consider the CGI acquisition to be a material business
combination and therefore have not disclosed the pro forma results of operations as required for material business combinations.       CV
Therapeutics, Inc.       On April 15, 2009, we acquired CV Therapeutics through a cash tender offer under the terms of an
agreement and plan of merger entered into in March 2009. CV Therapeutics was a publicly-held biopharmaceutical company based in Palo Alto, California, primarily focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of small molecule drugs for
the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases. CV Therapeutics had two marketed products, Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina and Lexiscan injection for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in radionuclide MPI in patients
unable to undergo adequate exercise stress. CV Therapeutics also had several product candidates in clinical development for the treatment of cardiovascular, metabolic and pulmonary diseases.   
  The CV Therapeutics acquisition was accounted for as a business combination. The results of operations of CV Therapeutics since
April 15, 2009 have been included in our Consolidated Statements of Income. The acquisition date was determined to be April 15, 2009 as that is the date on which we acquired approximately 89% of the outstanding shares of common stock of CV
Therapeutics and obtained effective control of the company. The acquisition was completed two days later on April 17, 2009, at which time CV Therapeutics became a wholly-owned subsidiary.   
  The aggregate consideration transferred to acquire CV Therapeutics was $1.39 billion, and consisted of cash paid for common stock and
other equity instruments at or prior to closing of $1.38 billion and the fair value of vested stock options assumed of $15.7 million.   
         110

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   In accordance with the merger agreement, the number of Gilead stock options and
restricted stock units into which assumed CV Therapeutics  stock options and restricted stock units were converted was determined based on an option conversion ratio. This conversion ratio was calculated by taking the per share acquisition
price of $20.00 and dividing it by the average closing price of our common stock for the five consecutive trading days immediately preceding (but not including) the closing date of April 17, 2009, which was $46.24 per share. The fair value of
stock options assumed was calculated using a Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions: market price of $44.54 per share, which was the closing price of our common stock on the acquisition date; expected term ranging from 0.1 to
5.2 years; risk-free interest rate ranging from 0.1% to 1.7%; expected volatility ranging from 37.4% to 43.2%; and no dividend yield. The fair value of restricted stock units assumed was calculated using the acquisition-date closing price of $44.54
per share for our common stock.      We included the fair value of vested stock options assumed by us of $15.7 million in the
consideration transferred for the acquisition. We did not assume any vested restricted stock units. The estimated fair value of unvested stock options and restricted stock units assumed by us of $11.2 million was not included in the consideration
transferred and is being recognized as stock-based compensation expenses over the remaining future vesting period of the awards.      The following table summarizes the assets acquired and liabilities assumed at April 15, 2009 (in thousands):       
     Intangible Assets       A substantial portion of the assets acquired consisted of intangible assets related to CV Therapeutics  two marketed products, Ranexa and Lexiscan, and CV Therapeutics  IPR D projects.
Management determined that the estimated acquisition-date fair values of the intangible assets related to the marketed products and IPR D projects were $951.2 million and $138.9 million, respectively.   
         111

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   Of the $951.2 million of intangible assets related to the marketed products, $688.4
million related to Ranexa and $262.8 million related to Lexiscan. We have determined that these intangible assets have finite useful lives and will be amortized over their respective useful lives, which we estimated to be the periods over which the
associated product patents will expire as those are the periods over which the intangible assets are expected to contribute to the future cash flows of the related products.      We are amortizing the intangible asset related to Ranexa over its estimated useful life using an amortization rate derived from our forecasted future product sales for Ranexa. We are amortizing the
intangible asset related to Lexiscan over its estimated useful life on a straight-line basis. Given that current Lexiscan revenues consist of royalties received from a collaboration partner and our lack of ongoing access and visibility into that
partner s future sales forecasts, we cannot make a reasonable estimate of the amortization rate using a forecasted product sales approach. The weighted-average amortization period for these intangible assets is approximately ten years.
     Of the $138.9 million of intangible assets related to the IPR D projects, $93.4 million related to GS 9667 (formerly
CVT-3619), a product candidate that was in Phase 1 clinical studies for the treatment of diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia. The remaining balance of the intangible assets related to IPR D projects represented various other in-process projects
with no single project comprising a significant portion of the total value. Intangible assets related to IPR D projects are considered to be indefinite-lived until the completion or abandonment of the associated R D efforts. During the
period the assets are considered indefinite-lived, they will not be amortized but will be tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a
reduction in the fair value of the IPR D projects below their respective carrying amounts. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded $136.0 million of impairment charges related to certain IPR D assets acquired from CV Therapeutics
which we had no future plans to develop and which were deemed to have no future use to us or other market participants. These charges related to the GS 9667, Adentri and tecadenoson programs and were recorded in R D expense. The majority of the
impairment charge related to our GS 9667 program, which was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to unfavorable results from pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics tests that demonstrated limited effectiveness of the compound in patients.
Given these results, we do not believe it has alternative future uses for us or other market participants. As of December 31, 2010, we had $2.9 million of IPR D assets acquired from CV Therapeutics remaining on our Consolidated Balance
Sheet.       Deferred Tax Assets and Deferred Tax Liabilities       The $413.8 million of deferred tax assets resulting from the acquisition was primarily related to federal and state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. The $426.9 million of deferred tax
liabilities resulting from the acquisition was primarily related to the difference between the book basis and tax basis of the intangible assets related to the marketed products and IPR D projects. We have concluded that it is more likely
than not that we will not realize the benefit from deferred tax assets related to certain state net operating loss carryforwards. As a result, a valuation allowance of $15.1 million was recorded related to those deferred tax assets. For presentation
purposes, the $426.9 million of deferred tax liabilities, all of which is of a noncurrent nature, has been netted against noncurrent deferred tax assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. As a result of the impairment charges recorded in the fourth
quarter of 2010, we reduced the deferred tax liabilities related to IPR D projects by $49.7 million.       Convertible Senior Notes
      As a result of the acquisition, we assumed convertible notes from CV Therapeutics consisting of 2.75% senior subordinated
convertible notes due 2012, 3.25% senior subordinated convertible notes due 2013 and 2.0%   
         112

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

senior subordinated convertible debentures due 2023. All of these convertible notes were recognized at their fair values at the acquisition date. In May 2009, we offered to repurchase these
convertible notes in consideration for their par value plus accrued interest, as required under the terms of the respective convertible note agreements following the occurrence of a change in control or fundamental change as defined in the
agreements. As of December 31, 2010, all of these convertible notes have been extinguished.       Goodwill    
  The excess of the consideration transferred over the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed was $341.9
million, which represents the goodwill amount resulting from the acquisition. Management believes that the goodwill mainly represents the synergies and economies of scale expected from combining our operations with CV Therapeutics. None of the
goodwill is expected to be deductible for income tax purposes. We recorded the goodwill as an intangible asset in our Consolidated Balance Sheet as of the acquisition date. Goodwill is tested for impairment on an annual basis and between annual
tests if we become aware of any events occurring or changes in circumstances that would indicate a reduction in the fair value of the goodwill below its carrying amount.       Navitas Assets, LLC       In May 2008, we executed an asset purchase agreement
with Navitas Assets, LLC (Navitas) to acquire all of the assets related to its cicletanine business. We acquired the exclusive rights to regulatory data and filings for development of cicletanine as a monotherapy for PAH and for other indications in
the United States. We are evaluating cicletanine, currently in Phase 2 clinical trials, as a potential treatment of PAH.      The
aggregate consideration transferred for the acquisition was $10.9 million, and consisted primarily of cash paid. In addition, Navitas is entitled to potential additional purchase consideration, including payments contingent on future achievement of
certain development and regulatory milestones. These amounts will be recorded when and if the related contingencies are resolved. The consideration transferred was allocated to IPR D which represents the purchased IPR D program for
cicletanine that had not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future uses as of the acquisition date, and therefore, was expensed upon acquisition within our Consolidated Statement of Income.   

6.   
   RESTRUCTURING         During the
second quarter of 2010, we implemented a plan to close our research operations in Durham, North Carolina and consolidate our liver disease research activities in Foster City, California. The restructuring plan includes consolidation of the liver
disease R D organization and our exit from certain facilities. During the year, we recorded a total of $14.6 million and $10.4 million in SG A expenses and R D expenses, respectively, related to employee severance and facilities-related
expenses under this plan. In December 2010, we closed our operations in Durham. We do not expect to incur any additional significant costs in connection with this plan.      During the second quarter of 2009, we approved a plan to realize certain synergies as a result of the CV Therapeutics acquisition by re-aligning our cardiovascular operations and eliminating redundancies.
The restructuring plan included consolidation and re-alignment of the cardiovascular R D organization, our exit from certain facilities and the termination of certain contractual obligations. In 2010, we recorded $10.6 million and $3.4 million
of restructuring expenses in SG A and R D expenses, respectively. Comparatively, in 2009, we recorded $26.2 million and $25.7 million in SG A and R D expenses, respectively. In both years, the expenses primarily related to employee
severance, relocation, lease termination costs and other facilities-related   
         113

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

expenses. Total costs incurred under this plan were $36.8 million and $29.1 million in SG A and R D expenses, respectively. We do not expect to incur any additional costs in connection
with this plan.      The following table summarizes the restructuring liabilities accrued for and changes in those amounts during
the period for the restructuring plan related to our cardiovascular operations (in thousands):       

7.   
   INVENTORIES         Inventories
are summarized as follows (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the joint ventures formed by Gilead and BMS (see Note 10), which are
included in our Consolidated Financial Statements, held $811.9 million and $667.8 million in inventory, respectively, of efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient purchased from BMS at BMS  estimated net selling price of efavirenz.   

         114

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

8.   
   PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT         Property, plant and equipment are summarized as follows (in thousands):       
    In January 2009, we completed the purchase of an office building and approximately 30 acres
of land located in Foster City, California, for an aggregate purchase price of $140.1 million. Based on the estimated relative fair values, the purchase price was allocated primarily to land of $71.6 million, building of $64.3 million, land
improvements of $2.7 million and office furniture and equipment of $1.1 million.       

9.   
   INTANGIBLE ASSETS         The
following table summarizes the carrying amount of our intangible assets (in thousands):       
        The following table summarizes the
changes in the carrying amount of goodwill (in thousands):       
 
         115

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes our finite-lived intangible assets (in thousands):
      
    Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $59.9 million for the year ended December 31,
2010, and was recorded in cost of goods sold in our Consolidated Statement of Income. Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $43.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009 and was recorded primarily in cost of goods sold in
our Consolidated Statement of Income. Amortization expense related to intangible assets was $2.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and was recorded primarily in SG A expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. The
weighted-average amortization period for these intangible assets is approximately ten years.      As of December 31, 2010,
the estimated future amortization expense associated with our intangible assets for each of the five succeeding fiscal years is as follows (in thousands):       
    As of December 31, 2010, we had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $29.5 million, which consisted of
$26.6 million and $2.9 million of purchased IPR D from our acquisitions of CGI and CV Therapeutics, respectively. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we recorded $136.0 million of impairment charges related to certain IPR D assets acquired
from CV Therapeutics which we had no future plans to develop and which were deemed to have no future use to us or other market participants. These charges related to the GS 9667, Adentri and tecadenoson programs and were recorded in R D expense.
The majority of the impairment charge related to our GS 9667 program, a product candidate that was in Phase 1 clinical studies for the treatment of diabetes and hypertriglyceridemia, which was terminated in the fourth quarter of 2010 due to
unfavorable results from pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics tests that demonstrated limited effectiveness of the compound in patients. Given these results, we do not believe it has alternative future uses for us or other market participants. As
of December 31, 2009, we had indefinite-lived intangible assets of $138.9 million related to purchased IPR D from our acquisition of CV Therapeutics.       

10.   
   COLLABORATIVE ARRANGEMENTS      
  As a result of entering into strategic collaborations from time to time, we may hold investments in non-public companies. We review our
interests in our investee companies for consolidation and/or appropriate disclosure based on applicable guidance. As disclosed in Note 1, we determined that certain of our investee   
         116

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

companies are variable interest entities; however, other than with respect to our joint ventures with BMS, we are not the primary beneficiary and therefore do not consolidate these investees.
      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        North America       In December 2004, we entered into a collaboration
arrangement with BMS in the United States to develop and commercialize a single-tablet regimen containing our Truvada and BMS s Sustiva (efavirenz), which we sell as Atripla. The collaboration is structured as a joint venture and operates as a
limited liability company named Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC, which we consolidate. The ownership interests of the joint venture and thus the sharing of product revenue and costs reflect the respective economic interests of
BMS and Gilead and are based on the proportions of the net selling price of Atripla attributable to efavirenz and Truvada. Since the net selling price for Truvada may change over time relative to the net selling price of efavirenz, both BMS s
and our respective economic interests in the joint venture may vary annually.      We share marketing and sales efforts with BMS
and both parties are obligated to provide equivalent sales force efforts for a minimum number of years. Starting in the second quarter of 2011, except for a limited number of activities that will be jointly managed, the parties will no longer
coordinate detailing and promotional activities in the United States. The parties will continue to collaborate on activities such as manufacturing, regulatory, compliance and pharmacovigilance. We are responsible for accounting, financial reporting,
tax reporting, manufacturing and product distribution for the joint venture. Both parties provide their respective bulk active pharmaceutical ingredients to the joint venture at their approximate market values. In July 2006, the joint venture
received approval from the FDA to sell Atripla in the United States. In September 2006, we and BMS amended the joint venture s collaboration agreement to allow the joint venture to sell Atripla into Canada and in October 2007, the joint
venture received approval from Health Canada to sell Atripla in Canada. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the joint venture held efavirenz active pharmaceutical ingredient which it purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of
efavirenz in the U.S. market. These amounts are included in inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, total assets held by the joint venture were $1.45 billion and $1.40 billion, respectively, and
consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable (including intercompany receivables with Gilead) and inventories. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, total liabilities held by the joint venture were $759.5 million and $1.03
billion, respectively, and consisted primarily of accounts payable (including intercompany payables with Gilead) and other accrued expenses. These asset and liability amounts do not reflect the impact of intercompany eliminations that are included
in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Although we are the primary beneficiary of the joint venture, the legal structure of the joint venture limits the recourse that its creditors will have over our general credit or assets.   
   Europe    
  In December 2007, Gilead Sciences Limited (GSL), a wholly-owned subsidiary in Ireland, and BMS entered into a collaboration arrangement to
commercialize and distribute Atripla in the European Union, Iceland, Liechtenstein, Norway and Switzerland (collectively, the European Territory). The parties formed a limited liability company which we consolidate, to manufacture Atripla for
distribution in the European Territory using efavirenz that it purchases from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in the European Territory. We are responsible for product distribution, inventory management and warehousing.
Through our local subsidiaries, we have primary responsibility for order fulfillment, collection of receivables, customer relations and handling of sales returns in all the territories where we co-promote Atripla with BMS. We are also responsible
for accounting, financial reporting and tax reporting for the collaboration. In December 2007, the   
         117

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

European Commission approved Atripla for sale in the European Union. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, efavirenz purchased from BMS at BMS s estimated net selling price of efavirenz in
the European Territory is included in inventories on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.      The parties also formed a limited
liability company to hold the marketing authorization for Atripla in Europe. We have primary responsibility for regulatory activities and we share marketing and sales efforts with BMS. In the major market countries, both parties have agreed to
provide equivalent sales force efforts. Revenue and cost sharing is based on the relative ratio of the respective net selling prices of Truvada and efavirenz.       PARI GmbH       As a result of our acquisition of Corus Pharma, Inc. (Corus) in
August 2006, we assumed all rights to the February 2002 development agreement between Corus and PARI GmbH (PARI) for the development of Cayston and development of an inhalation delivery device for this product. Under the terms of
the agreement, we are obligated to pay PARI for services rendered, and subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are obligated to pay certain milestone payments to PARI. In addition, we will make royalty payments based on net sales
of Cayston. The agreement also provided us the right to reduce the royalty rate payable to PARI. In November 2007, we paid PARI $13.5 million to reduce the royalty rate under the agreement. As Cayston had not yet been approved for
commercialization at the time of the payment, we recorded this payment in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. In April 2008, pursuant to the February 2002 development agreement, we entered into a commercialization agreement
with PARI which provides for the supply and manufacture of an inhalation delivery device and accessories for use with Cayston. Under the terms of this agreement, we are obligated to pay royalties on future net sales of these products pursuant to the
2002 development agreement.      In February 2010, we received marketing approval from the FDA for Cayston as a treatment to
improve respiratory symptoms in CF patients with  P. aeruginosa . Cayston was conditionally approved in Europe and Canada in September 2009.       Parion Sciences, Inc.       In August 2007, we entered into a research
collaboration and license agreement with Parion Sciences, Inc. (Parion) to research, develop and commercialize certain epithelial sodium channel (ENaC) inhibitors for the treatment of pulmonary diseases. The agreement granted us worldwide
commercialization rights to GS 9411 (formerly P-680), an ENaC inhibitor discovered by Parion, for the treatment of pulmonary diseases, including CF, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and non-CF bronchiectasis. In accordance with the terms of the
agreement, we paid a $5.0 million up-front license fee that was recorded in R D expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income as there was no future alternative use for this technology, and made a $5.0 million investment in Parion in the form
of convertible debt, which was recorded as other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Under the collaboration agreement, we will lead all development and commercialization activities and provide funding of full time equivalent
employees for certain research activities. In addition, we are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of certain milestones and pay royalties on future net sales of products that are developed and approved in relation to this
collaboration. In August 2010, development of GS 9411 was terminated and the term of the research collaboration was extended to identify additional ENaC inhibitors for development.       Roche       In September 1996, we entered into a development and license
agreement (the 1996 Agreement) with Roche to develop and commercialize therapies to treat and prevent viral influenza. Tamiflu, an antiviral oral formulation   
         118

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

for the treatment and prevention of influenza, was co-developed by us and Roche. Under the 1996 Agreement, Roche has the exclusive right to manufacture and sell Tamiflu worldwide, subject to its
obligation to pay us a percentage of the net revenues that Roche generates from Tamiflu sales, which, in turn, has been subject to reduction for certain defined manufacturing costs.   
  In November 2005, we entered into a first amendment and supplement to the 1996 Agreement with Roche. The amended agreement provided for
the formation of a joint manufacturing committee to review Roche s manufacturing capacity for Tamiflu and its global plans for manufacturing Tamiflu, a U.S. commercial committee to evaluate commercial plans and strategies for Tamiflu in the
United States and a joint supervisory committee to evaluate Roche s overall commercial plans for Tamiflu on a global basis in each case, consisting of representatives of Roche and us. Under the amended agreement, we also have the option to
provide a specialized sales force to supplement Roche s marketing efforts in the United States for Tamiflu.      The
royalties payable to us on net sales of Tamiflu sold by Roche remain the same under the amended agreement, which are as follows: (a) 14% of the first $200.0 million in worldwide net sales in a given calendar year; (b) 18% of the next
$200.0 million in worldwide net sales during the same calendar year; and (c) 22% of worldwide net sales in excess of $400.0 million during the same calendar year. The amended agreement revised the provision in the 1996 Agreement relating
to the calculation of royalty payments such that in any given calendar quarter Roche will pay royalties based on the actual royalty rates applicable to such quarter. In addition, under the amended agreement, royalties payable by Roche to us will no
longer be subject to a cost of goods sold adjustment that was provided in the 1996 Agreement. We recorded a total of $386.5 million, $392.7 million and $155.5 million of Tamiflu royalties in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.   
  As a result of our acquisition of CV Therapeutics in April 2009, we assumed all rights to the agreement between CV Therapeutics and Roche
under which we have an exclusive worldwide license to Ranexa. Under the license agreement, we paid an initial license fee and are obligated to make certain payments to Roche upon receipt of the first and second product approvals for Ranexa in any of
the following major market countries: France, Germany, Italy, the United States and the United Kingdom. In January 2006, we received FDA approval for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina and paid $11.0 million to Roche in accordance with the
agreement. In July 2008, we received marketing authorization from the European Medicines Agency (EMEA) for Ranexa for the treatment of chronic angina in all 27 European Union member states and paid $9.0 million to Roche related to this approval.
This amount was capitalized as a noncurrent asset on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and is being amortized over its useful patent life, which is approximately 11 years, expiring in September 2019.   
  In June 2006, we entered into an amendment to the agreement with Roche related to Ranexa. This amendment provided us with exclusive
worldwide commercial rights to Ranexa for all potential indications in humans. Under the terms of the amendment, we made an upfront payment to Roche and are obligated to make royalty payments to Roche on worldwide net product sales of any licensed
products. In addition, we are obligated to make additional milestone payments upon the achievement of certain regulatory approvals.       Japan
Tobacco Inc.       In March 2005, Japan Tobacco Inc. (Japan Tobacco) granted us exclusive rights to develop and commercialize
elvitegravir, a novel HIV integrase inhibitor formerly known as GS 9137, in all countries of the world, excluding Japan, where Japan Tobacco retained such rights. Under the terms of the agreement, we incurred an up-front license fee of $15.0 million
which was included in R D expenses in 2005 as there was no future alternative use for this technology. In March 2006, we recorded $5.0 million in R D expenses related to a   
         119

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

milestone we incurred as a result of dosing the first patient in a Phase 2 clinical study and in July 2008, we recorded $7.0 million in R D expenses related to a milestone we paid related to
the dosing of the first patient in a Phase 3 clinical study. We are obligated to make additional payments upon the achievement of other milestones as well as pay royalties on any future product sales arising from this collaboration.   
   GlaxoSmithKline Inc.       In
April 2002, we granted GSK the right to commercialize Hepsera, our oral antiviral for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, in Asia, Latin America and certain other territories. Under the agreement, we retained rights to Hepsera in the United
States, Canada, Europe, Australia, New Zealand and Turkey. GSK received exclusive rights to develop Hepsera solely for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B in all of its territories, the most significant of which include China, Japan, South
Korea and Taiwan. GSK has full responsibility for the development and commercialization of Hepsera in its territories. Under the terms of the agreement, we received an up-front license payment of $10.0 million and from 2002 to 2004, we received an
aggregate of $17.0 million in milestone payments related to the commercial approvals of Hepsera in various countries. In 2006, we received an aggregate of $10.0 million in milestone payments from GSK for the achievement by GSK of four consecutive
quarters of Hepsera gross sales exceeding $75.0 million and the achievement of a certain drug status in China. The up-front license fee and milestone payments had been recorded as deferred revenue with a total of $3.4 million and $3.6 million being
amortized into contract revenue in 2008 and 2007, respectively. During the first quarter of 2009, we terminated our supply agreement with GSK to allow GSK to assume all manufacturing and supply obligations for Hepsera for use in the GSK territories.
As a result of the termination of this supply agreement, we recognized the remaining $24.5 million balance of deferred revenue into contract revenue as of March 31, 2009. Under the terms of the agreement, GSK is also required to pay us
royalties on net sales that GSK generates from sales of Hepsera and Epivir-HBV/Zeffix (GSK s hepatitis product) in the GSK territories. We recorded $48.0 million, $32.4 million and $31.7 million of royalty revenues in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively.      In November 2009, we entered into an agreement with GSK to commercialize Viread for the treatment of chronic
hepatitis B in five countries in Asia. Under the agreement, we will retain exclusive rights for commercialization of Viread for chronic hepatitis B in Hong Kong, Singapore, South Korea and Taiwan. In China, GSK will have exclusive commercialization
rights for Viread for chronic hepatitis B. Each company will pay royalties to the other on sales of Viread for chronic hepatitis B in their respective Asian territories.      In September 2010, we granted GSK the exclusive right to commercialize tenofovir disoproxil fumarate for chronic hepatitis B in Japan. GSK will be required to pay us royalties on sales of tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate for chronic hepatitis B in this territory.      As a result of our acquisition of Myogen, Inc. (Myogen) in
November 2006, we assumed all rights to the March 2006 license and distribution and supply agreements between Myogen and GSK. Under the terms of the license agreement, GSK has exclusive rights to market ambrisentan (the active pharmaceutical
ingredient in Letairis) under the name Volibris for PAH in territories outside the United States. We received an up-front payment of $20.0 million and, subject to the achievement of specific milestones, we are eligible to receive total additional
milestone payments of $80.0 million. In addition, we will receive royalties based on net sales of Volibris in the GSK territories. GSK has an option to negotiate from us an exclusive sublicense for additional therapeutic uses for Volibris in the GSK
territories during the term of the license agreement. We will continue to conduct and bear the expense of all clinical development activities that we believe are required to obtain and maintain regulatory approvals for Letairis and Volibris in the
United States, Canada and the European Economic Area, and each party may conduct additional development activities in its territories at its own expense. The   
         120

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

parties may agree to jointly develop ambrisentan for new indications in the licensed field and each party will pay its share of external costs associated with such joint development. In 2007, we
received a milestone payment of $11.0 million from GSK for validation by the EMEA of the marketing authorization application for Volibris, and in 2008, we received a $20.0 million milestone payment related to the European Commission marketing
authorization approval for Volibris. The milestone and up-front license payments have been recorded as deferred revenue and are being amortized into contract revenue over the remaining period for which we have performance obligations under the
agreement, which is approximately six years. We amortized $8.7 million, $8.3 million and $5.0 million to contract revenue in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Astellas US LLC and Astellas Pharma US, Inc. (Astellas), as applicable       As
a result of our acquisition of CV Therapeutics in April 2009, we assumed all rights to the July 2000 collaboration agreement between CV Therapeutics and Astellas US LLC to develop and market second generation pharmacologic MPI stress agents. Under
this agreement, Astellas received exclusive North American rights to Lexiscan and to a backup compound. In April 2008, we received FDA approval of Lexiscan for use as a pharmacologic stress agent in MPI studies in patients unable to undergo adequate
exercise stress. Under the terms of the agreement, the product is marketed by Astellas and was launched in June 2008 in the United States. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recognized $43.2 million and $19.7 million,
respectively, of royalty revenue from Astellas related to sales of Lexiscan.      Since 1991, we have had an agreement with
Astellas Pharma US, Inc. related to rights to market AmBisome. Under the terms of the agreement, Astellas is responsible for promotion of AmBisome in the United States and Canada. We have exclusive marketing rights to AmBisome in the rest of the
world, subject to our obligation to pay royalties to Astellas in connection with sales in significant markets in Asia. We receive royalties from Astellas  sales of AmBisome in the Unites States and Canada. In connection with this agreement, we
recorded royalty revenues of $10.2 million, $9.4 million and $9.5 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Tibotec Pharmaceuticals
      In July 2009, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Tibotec Pharmaceuticals (Tibotec), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Johnson   Johnson, to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose combination of our Truvada and Tibotec s non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor, TMC278 (25 mg rilpivirine hydrochloride), for which we currently have a
pending marketing application. In January 2011, we received a  refuse to file  notification from the U.S. FDA. In its communication, the FDA requested additional information with respect to the Chemistry, Manufacturing and Controls section
of the NDA submission. In February 2011, we re-filed our new drug application, which included the requested information, and are awaiting the FDA s response as to whether it is substantially complete to permit a substantive review. Under our
license and collaboration agreement with Tibotec, we were granted an exclusive license to the combination product for administration to adults in a once-daily, oral dosage form, worldwide excluding developing world countries and Japan. Neither party
is restricted from combining its drug products with any other drugs.      In accordance with the terms of the agreement, we will
reimburse up to  71.5 million (approximately $100.0 million) of development costs incurred by Tibotec for TMC278 through December 2011, and we are required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop and formulate the combination
product, including the completion of bioequivalence studies. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we recorded  17.9 million (approximately $22.1 million) and  35.7 million (approximately $52.4 million),
respectively, in reimbursable R D expenses incurred by Tibotec in the development of TMC278. Tibotec is required to use commercially reasonable efforts to develop TMC278 and obtain its approval in the United States and Europe. We will
  
         121

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

manufacture the combination product and assume the lead role in registration, distribution and, subject to regulatory approval, commercialization of the combination product in the licensed
countries. Tibotec will have the right to detail the combination product in the licensed countries, and, at its option, can request that it be the distributor of the combination product in a limited number of such countries. The price of the
combination product is expected to be the sum of the prices of the Truvada and TMC278 components. We expect to recognize product sales revenue from future sales of the combination product if and when it is approved. The cost of TMC278 to be
purchased by us from Tibotec for the combination product will approximate the market price of TMC278, less a specified percentage of up to thirty percent.       

11.   
   LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS          Convertible
Senior Notes       The following table summarizes the carrying amount of our convertible senior notes (in thousands):
      
     2011 and 2013 Notes       In April 2006, we issued $650.0 million of convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 Notes) and $650.0 million of convertible senior notes due in 2013 (2013 Notes) in a private placement pursuant to
Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2011 Notes and the 2013 Notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625%, respectively. Debt issuance costs of $23.8 million were recorded in other noncurrent assets and
are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual terms of the 2011 and 2013 Notes. The initial conversion rate for the 2011 Notes is 25.8048 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2011 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price
of approximately $38.75 per share), and the initial conversion rate for the 2013 Notes is 26.2460 shares per $1,000 principal amount of 2013 Notes (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $38.10 per share). The conversion rates
are subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.      The 2011 and 2013 notes may be converted, subject to adjustment, only
under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter beginning after September 30, 2006 if the closing price of our common stock for at least 20 trading days during the last 30 consecutive trading day period of the previous quarter
is more than 130% of the applicable conversion price per share, 2) if we make specified distributions to holders of our common stock or if specified corporate transactions occur, or 3) during the last month prior to maturity of the applicable notes.
Upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the note or (ii) the conversion value for such note. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount, we may also deliver, at
our option, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of the principal amount. If the 2011 and 2013 notes are converted in connection with a change in control, we may be required to provide a
make whole premium in the   
         122

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the event of a change in control, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their
notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.      Concurrent with
the issuance of the 2011 and 2013 notes, we purchased convertible note hedges in private transactions at a cost of $379.1 million, which is tax deductible over the life of the notes. We also sold warrants in private transactions and received net
proceeds of $235.5 million from the sale of the warrants. The convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce the potential economic dilution upon future conversions of the 2011 and 2013 notes by effectively increasing our conversion
price to $50.80 per share for the 2011 Notes and $53.90 per share for the 2013 Notes. The net cost of $143.7 million of the convertible note hedge and warrant transactions was recorded in stockholders  equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.
     The convertible note hedges cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 33.8 million shares of our common
stock at strike prices that initially correspond to the initial conversion prices of the 2011 and 2013 notes and are subject to adjustments similar to those applicable to the conversion price of the related notes. If the market value per share of
our common stock at the time of conversion of the 2011 and 2013 notes is above the strike price of the applicable convertible note hedges, we will be entitled to receive from the counterparties in the transactions shares of our common stock or, to
the extent we have made a corresponding election with respect to the related convertible notes, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our option, for the excess of the market value of the common stock over the strike
price of the convertible note hedges. The convertible note hedges will terminate upon the maturity of the 2011 and 2013 notes or when none of the 2011 and 2013 notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. There are 33.8 million
shares of our common stock underlying the warrants, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The warrants have strike prices of $50.80 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2011) and $53.90 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2013) and
are exercisable only on their respective expiration dates. If the market value of our common stock at the time of the exercise of the applicable warrants exceeds their respective strike prices, we will be required to net settle in cash or shares of
our common stock, at our option, with the respective counterparties for the value of the warrants in excess of the warrant strike prices.      Contemporaneously with the closing of the sale of the 2011 and 2013 notes, a portion of the net proceeds from the notes  issuance and the proceeds of the warrant transactions were used to repurchase
16.7 million shares of our common stock for $544.9 million.      Under current accounting guidance, we bifurcated the
conversion option of the 2011 and 2013 notes from the debt instrument, classified the conversion option in equity and are accreting the resulting debt discount as interest expense. The following table summarizes information about the equity and
liability components of the 2011 and 2013 notes (in thousands):       
    For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we recognized $67.9 million, $64.6 million and
$61.5 million, respectively, in interest expense related to the contractual coupon rates and amortization of the   
         123

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

debt discount for the 2011 and 2013 notes. The effective interest rates on the liability components of the 2011 and 2013 notes were 5.7% and 5.8%, respectively. If the notes were converted as of
December 31, 2010, the if-converted value would not exceed the principal amounts of the 2011 Notes and 2013 Notes.       2014 and 2016
Notes       In July 2010, we issued $1.25 billion of convertible senior notes due in 2014 (2014 Notes) and $1.25 billion of
convertible senior notes due in 2016 (2016 Notes) in a private placement pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. The 2014 and 2016 notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 1.00% and 1.625%, respectively. Debt
issuance costs are primarily comprised of $37.5 million in bankers  fees, the majority of which were recorded in other noncurrent assets and are being amortized to interest expense over the contractual terms of the 2014 and 2016 notes. The
aggregate principal amount of the 2014 and 2016 notes sold reflects the full exercise by the initial purchasers of their option to purchase additional notes to cover over-allotments. The initial conversion rate for the 2014 Notes is 22.1845 shares
per $1,000 principal amount (which represents an initial conversion price of approximately $45.08 per share), and the initial conversion rate for the 2016 Notes is 22.0214 shares per $1,000 principal amount (which represents an initial conversion
price of approximately $45.41 per share). The conversion rates are subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments.      The 2014
and 2016 notes may be converted prior to April 1, 2014 and April 1, 2016, respectively, only under the following circumstances: 1) during any calendar quarter commencing after September 30, 2010, if the closing price of the common
stock for at least 20 trading days (whether or not consecutive) during the period of 30 consecutive trading days ending on the last trading day of the preceding calendar quarter is greater than 130% of the applicable conversion price on each
applicable trading day, or 2) during the five business day period after any measurement period of ten consecutive trading days in which, for each trading day of such period, the trading price per $1,000 principal amount of notes was less than 98% of
the product of the last reported sale price of Gilead common stock and the applicable conversion rate on such trading day, or 3) upon the occurrence of specified corporate transactions, such as the distribution of certain stock rights, cash amounts,
or other assets to all Gilead shareholders or the occurrence of a change in control. On and after April 1, 2014, in the case of the 2014 Notes, and April 1, 2016, in the case of the 2016 Notes, holders may convert their notes at any time,
regardless of the foregoing circumstances. Generally, upon conversion, a holder would receive an amount in cash equal to the lesser of (i) the principal amount of the note or (ii) the conversion value for such note, as measured under the
indenture governing the relevant notes. If the conversion value exceeds the principal amount, we may also deliver, at our option, cash or common stock or a combination of cash and common stock for the conversion value in excess of the principal
amount. If the 2014 and 2016 notes are converted in connection with a change in control, we may be required to provide a make whole premium in the form of an increase in the conversion rate, subject to a stated maximum amount. In addition, in the
event of a change in control, the holders may require us to purchase all or a portion of their notes at a purchase price equal to 100% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any.   
  Concurrent with the issuance of the 2014 and 2016 notes, we purchased convertible note hedges in private transactions at a cost of $362.6
million, which is tax deductible over the life of the notes. We also sold warrants in private transactions and received net proceeds of $155.4 million from the sale of the warrants. The convertible note hedges and warrants are intended to reduce the
potential economic dilution upon future conversions of the 2014 and 2016 notes by effectively increasing our conversion price to $56.76 per share for the 2014 Notes and $60.10 per share for the 2016 Notes. The net cost of $207.2 million of the
convertible note hedge and warrant transactions was recorded in stockholders  equity on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.   
  The convertible note hedges cover, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, 55.3 million shares of our common stock at strike
prices that initially correspond to the initial conversion prices of the 2014 and 2016   
         124

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

notes and are subject to adjustments similar to those applicable to the conversion price of the related notes. If the market value per share of our common stock at the time of conversion of the
2014 and 2016 notes is above the strike price of the applicable convertible note hedges, we will be entitled to receive from the counterparties in the transactions shares of our common stock or, to the extent we have made a corresponding election
with respect to the related convertible notes, cash or a combination of cash and shares of our common stock, at our option, for the excess of the market value of the common stock over the strike price of the convertible note hedges. The convertible
note hedges will terminate upon the maturity of the 2014 and 2016 notes or when none of the 2014 and 2016 notes remain outstanding due to conversion or otherwise. There are 55.3 million shares of our common stock underlying the warrants,
subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments. The warrants have strike prices of $56.76 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2014) and $60.10 per share (for the warrants expiring in 2016) and are exercisable only on their respective expiration
dates. If the market value of our common stock at the time of the exercise of the applicable warrants exceeds their respective strike prices, we will be required to net settle in cash or shares of our common stock, at our option, with the respective
counterparties for the value of the warrants in excess of the warrant strike prices.      We have used and will continue to use
the net proceeds from the issuance of the convertible notes to repurchase shares of our common stock and repay existing indebtedness.      Under current accounting guidance, we bifurcated the conversion option of the 2014 and 2016 notes from the debt instrument, classified the conversion option in equity and are accreting the resulting debt
discount as interest expense. The following table summarizes information about the equity and liability components of the 2014 and 2016 notes (in thousands):       
    For the year ended December 31, 2010, we recognized $34.9 million in interest expense related to the
contractual coupon rates and amortization of the debt discount for the 2014 and 2016 notes. The effective interest rate on the liability components of the 2014 and 2016 notes was 3.5% and 4.0%, respectively. If the notes were converted as of
December 31, 2010, the if-converted value would not exceed the principal amounts of the 2014 Notes and 2016 Notes.       Credit Facility
      Under our amended and restated credit agreement, we, along with our wholly-owned subsidiary, Gilead Biopharmaceutics
Ireland Corporation, may borrow up to an aggregate of $1.25 billion in revolving credit loans. The credit agreement also includes a sub-facility for swing-line loans and letters of credit. Loans under the credit agreement bear interest at an
interest rate of either LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 20 basis points to 32 basis points or the base rate, as described in the credit agreement. We may reduce the commitments and may prepay loans under the credit agreement in whole or in part at
any time without penalty, subject to certain conditions. The credit agreement will terminate in December 2012 and all unpaid borrowings thereunder shall be due and payable at that time. In April 2009, in connection with the acquisition of CV
Therapeutics, we borrowed $400.0 million under the credit agreement to partially fund the acquisition. As of December 31, 2009, we had repaid the   
         125

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

$400.0 million under this credit agreement. In May 2010, we borrowed $500.0 million under the credit agreement to fund our stock repurchases. In August 2010, we repaid the $500.0 million borrowed
under this credit agreement using proceeds from our convertible senior notes issued in July 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we had $5.0 million in letters of credit outstanding under the $1.25 billion credit agreement. We are required to comply
with certain covenants under the credit agreement and as of December 31, 2010, we were in compliance with all such covenants.       

12.   
   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES          Lease
Arrangements       We have entered into various long-term non-cancelable operating leases for equipment and facilities. We lease
facilities in Foster City, Palo Alto and San Dimas, California; Durham, North Carolina; Boulder, Colorado; Seattle, Washington; the Dublin and Cork areas of Ireland and the London area of the United Kingdom. We also have operating leases for sales,
marketing and administrative facilities in Europe, Canada and Asia Pacific. Our leases expire on various dates between 2011 and 2029, with many of our leases containing options to renew. Certain facility leases also contain rent escalation clauses.
Our most significant lease, related to a facility in Seattle, Washington, expires in 2020 and has a 10-year term. The lease provides us with three consecutive rights to extend the term of the lease through 2035 and contains an annual three percent
rent escalation clause. The lease also requires us to pay additional amounts for operating expenses and maintenance. We also have leases for three corporate aircraft, with varying terms, with renewal options upon expiration of the lease terms.
     Lease expense under our operating leases was approximately $41.7 million, $37.3 million and $29.3 million during the years
ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Aggregate non-cancelable future minimum rental payments under operating leases are as follows (in thousands):   
   
     Legal Proceedings       On August 12, 2009, we received a subpoena from the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services requesting documents regarding the development, marketing and
sales of Ranexa     . Ranexa is approved for the treatment of chronic angina and was developed and originally
commercialized by CV Therapeutics, a company that Gilead acquired in April 2009. Following receipt of the subpoena, we cooperated with the government s inquiry. On December 13, 2010, the United States Department of Justice notified the
United States District Court for the Northern District of California  of its decision not to intervene  in a False Claims Act lawsuit filed by a former employee of CV Therapeutics regarding the promotion of Ranexa. On December 16,
2010, the plaintiff-relator filed a notice of voluntary dismissal without prejudice of the underlying lawsuit, and the United States consented to the dismissal without prejudice.   
  We are a party to various other legal actions that arose in the ordinary course of our business. We do not believe that any of these
other legal actions will have a material adverse impact on our consolidated business, financial position or results of operations.   
         126

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
    Other Commitments       In the normal course of business, we enter into various firm purchase commitments primarily related to active pharmaceutical ingredients and certain inventory related items. As of December 31, 2010,
these commitments for the next five years were approximately $640.3 million in 2011, $149.3 million in 2012, $57.5 million in 2013, $20.2 million in 2014 and $3.1 million in 2015. The amounts related to active pharmaceutical ingredients represent
minimum purchase requirements. Actual payments for the purchases related to these active pharmaceutical ingredients were $835.7 million, $1.03 billion and $1.04 billion during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

13.   
   STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY          Stock
Repurchase Programs       In October 2007, our Board authorized a program for the repurchase of our common stock in an amount of
up to $3.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated purchases or other means, including accelerated stock repurchase transactions or similar arrangements. In 2007, we
repurchased and retired 705,600 shares of our common stock at $46.28 per share for an aggregate of $32.7 million under the $3.00 billion stock repurchase program.      In February 2008, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase agreement with a financial institution to repurchase $500.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of this
accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $500.0 million to the financial institution to settle the initial purchase transaction and received 9,373,548 shares of our common stock at a price of $53.34 per share. In June 2008, upon maturity of
the agreement and in accordance with the share delivery provisions of the agreement, we received an additional 239,612 shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified
period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the average purchase price of our common stock from the accelerated share repurchase was $52.01 per share.      We accounted for the accelerated share repurchase as two separate transactions: (a) as shares of common stock acquired in a treasury stock transaction recorded on the transaction date and (b) as
a forward contract indexed to our own common stock. As such, we accounted for the 9,373,548 shares that we received as a repurchase of our common stock and retired those shares immediately for net income per share purposes. The 239,612 additional
shares that we received upon maturity of the contract in June 2008 were also recorded in stockholders  equity. We determined that the forward contract indexed to our own common stock met all of the applicable criteria for equity classification,
and therefore, the contract was not accounted for as a derivative.      In October 2008, we entered into an accelerated share
repurchase agreement with a financial institution to repurchase $750.0 million of our common stock on an accelerated basis. Under the terms of the accelerated share repurchase agreement, we paid $750.0 million to settle the initial purchase
transaction and received 14,874,519 shares of our common stock at an initial price of $50.42 per share. In March 2009, upon termination of the agreement and in accordance with the share delivery provisions of the agreement, we received an additional
1,356,337 shares of our common stock based on the average of the daily volume weighted-average prices of our common stock during a specified period less a predetermined discount per share. As a result, the total number of shares repurchased and
retired under this accelerated share repurchase agreement was 16,230,856 shares at an average purchase price of $46.21 per share. The accounting for this accelerated share repurchase was consistent with that of our previous accelerated share
repurchase.   
         127

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   In 2008, in addition to the common stock repurchased under the two accelerated share
repurchase transactions, we repurchased and retired 14,696,449 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $48.94 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $719.3 million through open market transactions.   
  In 2009, in addition to the additional shares that we received under the accelerated share repurchase agreement completed in March 2009,
we repurchased and retired 21,845,929 shares of our common stock at an average purchase price of $45.69 per share, for an aggregate purchase price of $998.1 million through open market transactions. As of December 31, 2009, we completed share
repurchases under our $3.00 billion stock repurchase program.      In January 2010, our Board authorized a new program for the
repurchase of our common stock in an amount of up to $1.00 billion through open market and private block transactions pursuant to Rule 10b5-1 plans, privately negotiated purchases or other means. We completed this plan in May 2010, at which time our
Board authorized a new three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program. As of December 31, 2010, we have repurchased $3.02 billion of our common stock under this program. As of December 31, 2010, the remaining authorized amount of stock
repurchases that may be made under our $5.00 billion repurchase program was $1.98 billion. In 2010, we utilized a total of $4.02 billion to repurchase and retire 109.9 million shares of our common stock, at an average purchase price of $36.57
per share.      In January 2011, our Board authorized an additional three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program which will
commence upon the completion of our existing program authorized in May 2010.      We use the par value method of accounting for
our stock repurchases. Under the par value method, common stock is first charged with the par value of the shares involved. The excess of the cost of shares acquired over the par value is allocated to APIC based on an estimated average sales price
per issued share with the excess amounts charged to retained earnings. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2008, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $95.8 million and charged $1.88 billion to retained earnings. As a result of our
stock repurchases in 2009, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $61.7 million and charged $940.8 million to retained earnings. As a result of our stock repurchases in 2010, we reduced common stock and APIC by an aggregate of $319.8
million and charged $3.71 billion to retained earnings.       Preferred Stock    
  We have 5,000,000 shares of authorized preferred stock issuable in series. Our Board is authorized to determine the designation, powers,
preferences and rights of any such series. We have designated 800,000 shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for potential issuance under our November 1994 rights agreement with BNY Mellon Investor Services, LLC (formerly known as
ChaseMellon Shareholder Services, LLC), as amended (the Rights Plan). There was no preferred stock outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009.       Rights Plan       The Rights Plan provides for the distribution of a preferred
stock purchase right as a dividend for each share of our common stock. The purchase rights are not currently exercisable. Under certain conditions involving an acquisition or proposed acquisition by any person or group of 15% or more of our common
stock, the purchase rights permit the holders (other than the 15% holder) to purchase our common stock at a 50% discount from the market price at that time, upon payment of a specified exercise price per purchase right. In addition, in the event of
certain business combinations, the purchase rights permit the purchase of the common stock of an acquirer at a   
         128

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

50% discount from the market price at that time. Under certain conditions, the purchase rights may be redeemed by our Board in whole, but not in part, at a price of $0.0025 per purchase right.
The purchase rights have no voting privileges and are attached to and automatically trade with our common stock.      In
October 1999, October 2003 and May 2006, our Board approved amendments to the Rights Plan. The first amendment provided, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $15 to $100 and an extension of
the term of the plan from November 2004 to October 2009. The second amendment provides, among other things, for an increase in the exercise price of a right under the plan from $100 to $400 and an extension of the term of the Rights Plan
to October 2013. The third amendment was a clarifying amendment entered into in connection with an increase in the designated number of shares of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock for potential issuance under the Rights Plan in May
2006.       Stock Option Plans       In May 2004, our stockholders approved and we adopted the Gilead Sciences, Inc. 2004 Equity Incentive Plan (the 2004 Plan). Stock options under the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (NeXstar), Triangle
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Triangle), Corus, Myogen and CV Therapeutics stock option plans, which we assumed as a result of the acquisitions of NeXstar, Triangle, Corus, Myogen and CV Therapeutics, have been converted into options to purchase our common
stock effective with the closing of the respective acquisitions. The 2004 Plan is a broad based incentive plan that allows for awards to be granted to our employees, directors and consultants. The 2004 Plan provides for option grants designated as
either non-qualified or incentive stock options. Prior to January 1, 2006, we granted both non-qualified and incentive stock options, but all stock options granted after January 1, 2006 have been non-qualified stock options. Under the 2004
Plan, employee stock options granted prior to 2011 generally vest over five years, are exercisable over a period not to exceed the contractual term of ten years from the date the stock options are issued and are granted at prices not less than the
fair market value of our common stock on the grant date. Stock option exercises are settled with common stock from the 2004 Plan s previously authorized and available pool of shares.   
  In connection with the acquisition of CV Therapeutics, we assumed CV Therapeutics  1994 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and
restated, Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated, 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, 2000 Nonstatutory Incentive Plan, as amended and restated, and 2004 Employee Commencement Incentive Plan, as
amended and restated (collectively, the CV Therapeutics Plans). The majority of options that were issued and outstanding under the CV Therapeutics Plans as of April 15, 2009 were converted into options to purchase approximately 1.8 million
shares of our common stock and remain subject to their original terms and conditions. There are no shares available for future grant under the CV Therapeutics Plans.      As of December 31, 2010, a total of 121,594,183 shares of common stock have been authorized for grant and 51,793,307 shares remain available for future grant under the 2004 Plan.   
         129

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes activity under our stock option plans. All option grants
presented in the table had exercise prices not less than the fair value of the underlying common stock on the grant date (shares in thousands):       
    The total intrinsic
value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $262.3 million, $379.8 million and $551.7 million, respectively. The total fair value of stock options that vested during the years ended December 31,
2010, 2009 and 2008 was $124.6 million, $162.9 million and $169.2 million, respectively.      As of December 31, 2010,
the number of options outstanding that are expected to vest, net of estimated future option forfeitures was 13,302,022 with a weighted-average exercise price of $43.12 per share, an aggregate intrinsic value of $9.6 million and a weighted-average
remaining contractual life of 7.62 years. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding and stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2010 were $564.2 million and $554.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, the
weighted-average remaining contractual life for options outstanding and options exercisable were 5.3 and 4.5 years, respectively.      As of December 31, 2010, there was $260.8 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over an estimated weighted-average period of 2.7
years.       Performance Shares and Restricted Stock Awards       Under the 2004 plan, we grant performance-based restricted stock awards which vest upon the achievement of specified market and performance goals relative to a pre-determined peer group. The actual number
of common shares ultimately issued is calculated by multiplying the number of performance shares by a payout percentage ranging from 0% to 200%. Performance shares vest only when a committee (or subcommittee) of our Board has determined that we have
achieved our specified market and performance goals. In January 2010, 2009 and 2008 we granted 412,505, 426,305 and 219,690 performance-based share awards (the 2010 performance shares, the 2009 performance shares and the 2008 performance shares,
respectively). These awards will vest over a single three-year performance measurement and vesting period for each of the performance share awards.      The fair value of each performance share grant is estimated at the grant date using a Monte Carlo valuation methodology. The weighted-average grant date fair values of the 2010, 2009 and 2008 performance
shares were   
         130

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

$54.25, $61.89 and $56.61 per share, respectively. We recognized $21.3 million, $14.9 million and $7.5 million of stock-based compensation expenses in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, related
to these performance shares.      We have also granted performance-based restricted stock awards to certain of our employees under
the 2004 Plan. The vesting of these awards is subject to the achievement of specified performance goals. The number of these awards issued to date has not been significant.   
  During 2010 we granted 2,189,903 time-based restricted stock awards to employees under the 2004 Plan. These awards vest annually over a
five-year period. We recognized $19.5 million of stock-based compensation expenses in 2010 related to time-based awards.       Employee Stock
Purchase Plan       Under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended (ESPP), employees can purchase shares of our common stock
based on a percentage of their compensation subject to certain limits. The purchase price per share is equal to the lower of 85% of the fair market value of our common stock on the offering date or the purchase date. The ESPP offers a two-year
look-back feature as well as an automatic reset feature that provides for an offering period to be reset to a new lower-priced offering if the offering price of the new offering period is less than that of the current offering period. ESPP purchases
are settled with common stock from the ESPP s previously authorized and available pool of shares. During 2010, 1,110,485 shares were issued under the ESPP for $32.3 million. A total of 33,280,000 shares of common stock have been reserved for
issuance under the ESPP, and there were 6,567,411 shares available for issuance under the ESPP as of December 31, 2010.   
  As of December 31, 2010, there was $22.1 million of unrecognized compensation cost related to the ESPP, which is expected to be
recognized over an estimated weighted-average period of 1.0 year.       

14.   
   STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION      
  The following table summarizes the stock-based compensation expenses included in our Consolidated Statements of Income (in thousands:
      
    During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, we capitalized $10.9 million, $11.4 million
and $9.9 million of stock-based compensation costs to inventory, respectively.      Stock-based compensation is recognized as
expense over the requisite service periods in our Consolidated Statements of Income using a graded vesting expense attribution approach for unvested stock options granted prior to January 1, 2006, and using the straight-line expense attribution
approach for stock options granted after   
         131

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

our adoption of new guidance for share-based payments to employees and directors on January 1, 2006. As stock-based compensation expenses related to stock options recognized on adoption of
the new guidance is based on awards ultimately expected to vest, gross expense has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. The guidance requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if
actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We estimated forfeitures based on our historical experience. Prior to the adoption of this guidance, pro forma information that was required to be disclosed included forfeitures as they occurred. As a
result of the guidance adopted on January 1, 2006, we only recognize a tax benefit from stock-based compensation in APIC if an incremental tax benefit is realized after all other tax attributes currently available to us have been utilized. In
addition, we have elected to account for the indirect benefits of stock-based compensation on the research tax credit and the extraterritorial income deduction through the Consolidated Statements of Income rather than through APIC.   
   Valuation Assumptions    
  Fair values of awards granted under our stock option plans and ESPP were estimated at grant or purchase dates using a Black-Scholes option
valuation model. The Black-Scholes option valuation model was developed for use in estimating the fair value of traded options, which have no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. In addition, option valuation models require the input of
highly subjective assumptions, including expected stock price volatility and expected award life. We used the following assumptions to calculate the estimated fair value of the awards:   
   
    The fair value of
stock options granted was calculated using the single option approach. We use a blend of historical volatility along with implied volatility for traded options on our common stock to determine our expected volatility. The expected term of
stock-based awards represents the weighted-average period the awards are expected to remain outstanding. We estimate the weighted-average expected term based on historical cancellation and historical exercise data related to our stock options as
well as the contractual term and vesting terms of the awards. The risk-free interest rate is based upon observed interest rates appropriate for the term of the stock-based awards. The dividend yield is based on our history and expectation of
dividend payouts.       

15.   
   COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)         Comprehensive income (loss) comprises net income and certain changes in stockholders  equity that are excluded from net income, such as changes in the fair value of our outstanding effective cash
flow hedges, changes in unrealized gains and losses on our available-for-sale securities and changes in our cumulative foreign currency translation account. Comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and
  
         132

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

2008 is included in our Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity. The components of comprehensive income (loss) are shown net of related taxes where the underlying assets or
liabilities are held in jurisdictions that are expected to generate a future tax benefit or liability.      The following
reclassifications were recorded in connection with net realized gains (losses) on sales of securities and cash flow hedges that were previously included in comprehensive income (loss) (in thousands):   
   
    The balance of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes, as reported on our Consolidated
Balance Sheets consists of the following components (in thousands):       

16.   
   SEGMENT INFORMATION         We
operate in one business segment, which primarily focuses on the development and commercialization of human therapeutics for life threatening diseases. All products are included in one segment, because our major products, Atripla, Truvada and Viread,
which together accounted for substantially all of our total product sales for each of the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, have similar economic and other characteristics, including the nature of the products and production
processes, type of customers, distribution methods and regulatory environment.   
         133

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   Product sales consist of the following (in thousands):   
   
    The following table summarizes total revenues from external customers and collaboration partners by
geographic region (in thousands). Product sales and product-related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on ship-to location. Royalty and non-product related contract revenue are attributed to countries based on the location of the
collaboration partner.       
    The following table summarizes revenues from each of our customers who individually accounted for 10% or
more of our total revenues (as a % of total revenues):       
 
         134

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   At December 31, 2010, the net book value of our property, plant and equipment in
the United States, Ireland and Canada was $519.4 million, $112.2 million and $53.9 million, respectively, which comprised approximately 98% of the total net book value of our property, plant and equipment. At December 31, 2009, the net book
value of our property, plant and equipment in the United States, Ireland and Canada was $510.0 million, $115.3 million and $57.0 million, respectively, which comprised approximately 97% of the total net book value of our property, plant and
equipment.      

The
provision for income taxes consists of the following (in thousands):       
    Foreign pre-tax income was $1.37 billion, $1.33 billion and $0.90 billion in 2010, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. The cumulative unremitted foreign earnings that are considered to be permanently invested outside the United States and for which no U.S. taxes have been provided, were approximately $4.48 billion and $3.19 billion as of
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The residual U.S. tax liability, if such amounts were remitted, would be approximately $1.60 billion and $1.14 billion as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  The difference between the provision for income taxes and the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to
income before provision for income taxes is as follows (in thousands):       
 
         135

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows (in thousands):   
   
    The valuation allowance increased (decreased) by $11.9 million, $1.1 million and $(23.5) million for the
years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We have concluded, based on the standard set forth in the FASB Accounting Standards Codification related to Income Taxes, that it is more likely than not that we will not realize any
benefit from the deferred tax assets related to certain state net operating loss and credit carryforwards.      At
December 31, 2010, we had U.S. federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $732.5 million. The federal net operating loss carryforwards will start to expire in 2016, if not utilized. We also had federal tax credit carryforwards of
approximately $26.2 million which will start to expire in 2016, if not utilized. In addition, we had state net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $1.40 billion and $3.3 million, respectively. The state net operating loss
and tax credit carryforwards will start to expire in 2011 and 2016, respectively, if not utilized.      Utilization of net
operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations provided in the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and similar state provisions. This annual limitation may result in the expiration
of the net operating losses (NOLs) and credits before utilization.      We file federal, state and foreign income tax returns in
many jurisdictions in the United States and abroad. For federal income tax purposes, the statute of limitations is open for 2003 and onwards. For certain acquired entities, the statute of limitations is open for all years from inception due to our
utilization of their NOLs and credits carried over from prior years. For California income tax purposes, the statute of limitations remains open for 2002 and onwards.   
         136

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    
     
   Our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. We are
currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. There are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant
disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. We periodically evaluate our exposures associated with our tax filing positions.
     At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the total gross unrecognized tax benefits were $126.5 million and $106.5 million,
respectively. Of the total unrecognized tax benefits, $106.5 million and $72.6 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, if recognized, would reduce our effective tax rate in the period of recognition. We have continued to classify
interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as part of our income tax provision in our Consolidated Statements of Income. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits of
$12.3 million and $5.4 million, respectively.      As of December 31, 2010, we believe it is reasonably possible that our
unrecognized tax benefits will decrease by approximately $6.0 million in the next 12 months as we expect to have clarification from the tax authorities around certain of our uncertain tax positions. With respect to the remaining unrecognized tax
benefits, we are currently unable to make a reasonable estimate as to the period of cash settlement, if any, with the respective tax authorities.      The following is a rollforward of our total gross unrecognized tax benefit liabilities for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 (in thousands):   

18.   
   DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLANS         We maintain a retirement savings plan under which eligible employees may defer compensation for income tax purposes under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Gilead Plan). Under the
Gilead Plan, employees may contribute up to 60% of their eligible annual compensation, subject to IRS plan limits. We make matching contributions under the Gilead Plan. In 2010, 2009 and 2008, we contributed up to 50% of an employee s
contributions up to an annual maximum match of $5,000. Our total matching contribution expense under the Gilead Plan for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 was $11.2 million, $10.2 million, and $7.8 million, respectively.
     We maintain a deferred compensation plan under which our directors and key employees may defer compensation for income tax
purposes. The deferred compensation plan is a non-qualified deferred compensation   
         137

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

plan which is not subject to the qualification requirements under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Compensation deferred after December 31, 2004 is subject to the
requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code. Under the plan, officers and other senior grade level employees may contribute up to 70% of their annual salaries and up to 100% of their annual bonus while directors may contribute up
to 100% of their annual retainer fee. Amounts deferred by participants are deposited in a rabbi trust and are recorded in other noncurrent assets in our Consolidated Balance Sheets. Beginning in 2004, directors may also elect to receive all or a
portion of their annual cash retainer in phantom shares, which gives the participant the right to receive an amount equal to the value of a specified number of shares over a specified period of time and which will be payable in shares of our common
stock (with fractional shares paid out in cash) as established by the plan administrator. As of December 31, 2010, we had 31,682 phantom shares outstanding. Participants can elect one of several distribution dates available under the plan at
which they will receive their deferred compensation payment.       

Stock Repurchase
Program       In January 2011, our Board authorized an additional three-year, $5.00 billion stock repurchase program which will
commence upon the completion of our existing program authorized in May 2010.      Acquisition of Arresto Biosciences, Inc.    
  In December 2010, we entered into an agreement to acquire Arresto Biosciences, Inc. (Arresto) for $225 million plus potential future
payments based on achievement of certain sales levels. This transaction closed on January 14, 2011, at which time Arresto became a wholly-owned subsidiary. Arresto was a privately-held, development-stage biotechnology company based in Palo
Alto, California, focused on developing antibodies for the potential treatment of fibrotic diseases and cancer. The company s lead product is GS 6224 (formerly AB0024), a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) targeting the human lysyl
oxidase-like-2 (LOXL2) protein. In addition to an ongoing Phase 1 study of GS 6224 in patients with advanced solid tumors, a Phase 1 study had also been initiated to evaluate GS 6224 in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. We believe that
Arresto s pipeline and research and development expertise are well aligned with Gilead s areas of focus. Given the timing of the closing of this acquisition, we are currently in the process of valuing the assets acquired and liabilities
assumed in the business combination. As a result, we are unable to provide the amounts recognized as of the acquisition date for the major classes of assets acquired and liabilities assumed and certain disclosures pertaining to contingent
consideration.       Acquisition of Calistoga Pharmaceuticals, Inc.       In February 2011, we entered into an agreement to acquire Calistoga Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Calistoga) for $375 million plus potential payments of up to $225 million based on the achievement of certain
milestones. This transaction is expected to close in the second quarter of 2011. Calistoga is a privately-held, biotechnology company based in Seattle, Washington, focused on the development of medicines to treat cancer and inflammatory diseases.
The company has a portfolio of proprietary compounds that selectively target isoforms of phosphoinositide-3 kinase (P13K). Calistoga s lead product candidate, CAL-101, is a first-in-class specific inhibitor of the P13K delta isoform. P13K delta
is preferentially expressed in leukocytes involved in a variety of inflammatory and autoimmune diseases and hematological cancers.   
         138

Table of Contents  

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)    

20.   
   QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)         The following amounts are in thousands, except per share amounts:       

(1)     
    During 2010, we recorded $136.0 million of impairment charges in R D expense, related to certain IPR D assets acquired from CV Therapeutics.
See Notes 5 and 9.      

         139

Table of Contents  

    GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.    
   Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    

(1)     
    Allowances are for doubtful accounts, sales returns, cash discounts and chargebacks.      

140

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.        

G ILEAD  S CIENCES , I NC .   

By:  
     
  / S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            

John C. Martin, Ph.D.          Chairman and Chief Executive Officer         
    POWER OF ATTORNEY       KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person
whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints John C. Martin and Gregg H. Alton, and each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her
name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting
unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could
do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming that all said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title    
     
     Date     

/ S /    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN               John C. Martin, Ph.D.    
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  (Principal Executive Officer)    
     
  February 28, 2011   

/ S /    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON               Robin L. Washington    
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)    
     
  February 28, 2011   

/ S /    J AMES  M.
D ENNY               James M. Denny    
      
    Director   
     
  February 28, 2011   

/ S /    P AUL 
B ERG               Paul Berg    
      
    Director   
     
  February 28, 2011   

/ S /    J OHN  F.
C OGAN               John F. Cogan    
      
    Director   
     
  February 28, 2011   

/ S /    E TIENNE  F.
D AVIGNON               Etienne F. Davignon    
      
    Director   
     
  February 28, 2011    
         141

Table of Contents  

142

<EX-2.3>
 2
 dex23.htm
 AGMT. AND PLAN OF MERGER AMONG REGISTRANT, ARROYO MERGER SUB, INC. AND ARRESTO

Agmt. and Plan of Merger among Registrant, Arroyo Merger Sub, Inc. and Arresto 

Exhibit 2.3    
       
      AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER
     dated as of December 19, 2010      by and among      GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.,   
  ARROYO MERGER SUB, INC.,      ARRESTO BIOSCIENCES, INC.      and   
  HEALTHCARE VENTURES VIII, L.P.,      AS REPRESENTATIVE           
       [*] = CERTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION
CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

EXHIBITS    

Exhibit A  
      
  Form of Transmittal Letter   
 
  Exhibit B  
      
  Form of Escrow Agreement   
 
  Exhibit C  
      
  Contingent Consideration   
 
  Exhibit D  
      
  Form of Release Agreement   
 
  Exhibit E  
      
  Form of Landlord Estoppel   
 
  Exhibit F  
      
  Form of FIRPTA Certificate   
 
  Exhibit G  
      
  Form of Legal Opinion Letter   
 
  Exhibit H  
      
   [*]     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    
  i   

AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER    
   AGREEMENT AND PLAN OF MERGER  (this   Agreement  ), dated as of December 19, 2010, by and among Gilead
Sciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  Parent  ), Arroyo Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  AcquisitionCo  ), Arresto Biosciences, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ) (AcquisitionCo
and the Company being hereinafter sometimes referred to as the   Constituent Corporations  ), and HealthCare Ventures VIII, L.P., a Delaware limited partnership, as representative of the Participants (as defined herein) (the
  Representative  ).       WHEREAS , AcquisitionCo is a Delaware corporation having an authorized capital of
100 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, 100 of which are issued and outstanding and owned of record and beneficially by Parent;       WHEREAS , the Company is a Delaware corporation having an authorized capital of (i) 28,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the   Company Common Stock  ),
of which, as of the date hereof, 5,487,004 shares are issued and outstanding, (ii) 21,100,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.0001 per share (the   Company Preferred Stock  ), of which (A) 6,000,000 shares have been
designated Series A Preferred (the   Series A Preferred Stock  ), all of which, as of the date hereof, are issued and outstanding and are convertible into 6,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock, (B) 6,400,000 shares have been
designated Series B Preferred (the   Series B Preferred Stock  ), all of which, as of the date hereof, are issued and outstanding and are convertible into 6,400,000 shares of Company Common Stock, and (C) 8,700,000 shares have
been designated Series C Preferred (the   Series C Preferred Stock  ), of which, as of the date hereof, 6,907,406 shares are issued and outstanding and are convertible into 6,907,406 shares of Company Common Stock;   
   WHEREAS , the boards of directors of each of the Constituent Corporations have approved this Agreement, approved the merger of
AcquisitionCo with and into the Company pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement (the   Merger  ) and declared the advisability of this Agreement, and the board of directors of each of the Constituent Corporations has
directed that this Agreement be submitted to such Constituent Corporation s stockholders for adoption; and   
   WHEREAS , as a condition to Parent s and AcquisitionCo s execution and delivery of this Agreement, each of  [*]  is
entering into a Noncompetition Agreement in favor of the Company and Parent (the   Noncompetition Agreements  ), to be effective as of the Effective Time.       NOW ,  THEREFORE , in consideration of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, Parent, AcquisitionCo, the Company and the Representative hereby agree as follows:   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

ARTICLE I        THE MERGER        Section 1.1  Surviving Corporation .  Upon the
terms and subject to the conditions set forth in this Agreement, and in accordance with the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (the   DGCL  ), at the Effective Time, AcquisitionCo shall be merged with and into the
Company, the separate corporate existence of AcquisitionCo shall cease, and the Company shall continue as the surviving corporation in the Merger (the   Surviving Corporation  ) as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Parent.   
   Section 1.2  Effect of the Merger .  The Merger shall have the effects set forth in this Agreement and the applicable
provisions of the DGCL.       Section 1.3  Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, Directors and Officers . 
     (a) At the Effective Time, the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation shall be amended to be identical to
the certificate of incorporation of AcquisitionCo (as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time), except that Article I thereof shall read in its entirety as follows:  The name of the Corporation is Gilead Biologics, Inc.  Such
certificate of incorporation shall be the certificate of incorporation of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter amended in accordance with the provisions thereof and applicable Law.   
  (b) At the Effective Time, the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation shall be amended to be identical to the bylaws of AcquisitionCo (as in
effect immediately prior to the Effective Time), except that such bylaws shall reflect that the name of the Surviving Corporation is  Gilead Biologics, Inc.  Such bylaws shall be the bylaws of the Surviving Corporation until thereafter
amended in accordance with the provisions thereof and applicable Law.      (c) The directors of AcquisitionCo immediately prior to
the Effective Time shall be the initial directors of the Surviving Corporation, each to serve until their respective successors are duly elected and qualified or their earlier death, resignation or removal. The officers of the Company immediately
prior to the Effective Time shall be the initial officers of the Surviving Corporation, each to hold office until their respective successors are duly appointed or their earlier death, resignation or removal.   
   Section 1.4  Tax Consequences .  The parties hereto (a) intend that the Merger will be treated as a taxable sale of
the Shares by the Stockholders for Tax purposes and (b) shall consistently report the Merger as a taxable stock sale on all Tax Returns, reports and filings.       ARTICLE II        CONVERSION OF SHARES; DETERMINATION OF PURCHASE PRICE
       Section 2.1  Conversion Terms   .  As of the Effective Time, by virtue of the Merger and without any
action on the part of any stockholder of the Company or AcquisitionCo:      (a)   AcquisitionCo Stock .  Each share of
common stock of AcquisitionCo issued and outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into and   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         2   

become one fully paid and nonassessable share of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Surviving Corporation.      (b)   Treasury Stock .  All shares of Company Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock that immediately prior to the Effective Time are held in the treasury of the Company, if any, shall be
canceled and retired. No capital stock of the Surviving Corporation, cash or other consideration shall be paid or delivered in exchange for any such Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock held in treasury, and the Merger shall effect no
conversion thereof.      (c)   Company Preferred Stock .  Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.1(b), and
subject to Sections 2.1(e), 2.1(f), 2.2, 3.7 and 3.8, each share of Company Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive:   
  (i) an amount in cash per share equal to the product of (A) the Closing Distribution Ratio  multiplied by 
(B) the Per Share Closing Amount;      (ii) with respect to any payments of Contingent Consideration described
in  Exhibit C , a portion thereof equal to the Per Share Contingent Amount; and      (iii) an interest in any
cash released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund, as and when released to the Participants therefrom, to the extent provided in the Escrow Agreement.      (d)   Company Common Stock .  Except as otherwise provided in Section 2.1(b), and subject to Sections 2.1(e), 2.1(f), 2.1(g), 2.2, 3.7 and 3.8, each share of Company Common Stock
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be converted into the right to receive:      (i) an
amount in cash per share equal to the product of (A) the Closing Distribution Ratio  multiplied by  (B) the Per Share Closing Amount;      (ii) with respect to any payments of Contingent Consideration described in  Exhibit C , a portion thereof equal to the Per Share Contingent Amount; and   
  (iii) an interest in any cash released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund, as and when released to the Participants therefrom,
to the extent provided in the Escrow Agreement.      (e)   Escrow .  Following the release from the Indemnity Escrow
Fund of any funds therefrom in accordance with the Escrow Agreement (other than releases representing indemnity payments pursuant to Section 12.1), such amounts shall be distributed among the Participants in proportion to their respective
Escrow Percentages. As more fully provided in the Escrow Agreement, (i) within  [*] , there shall be released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund to the Participants an amount in cash equal to the amount (if any) by which (x)  [*] ,
exceeds (y) the sum of (A) all amounts released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund to Parent Group Members on or prior to such date, plus (B) the aggregate amount of all Indemnity Claims outstanding under all
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         3   

Claim Notices that were delivered on or prior to such date and that remained pending as of such date, and (ii) within  [*] , there shall be released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund to
the Participants an amount in cash equal to the amount (if any) by which (x) the remainder of the cash in the Indemnity Escrow Fund, exceeds (y) the sum of (A) all amounts released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund to Parent Group
Members on or prior to such date, plus (B) the aggregate amount of all Indemnity Claims outstanding under all Claim Notices that were delivered on or prior to such date and that remained pending as of such date.   
  (f)   Adjustment in Certain Circumstances .  In calculating the consideration payable under this Section 2.1, Parent and
AcquisitionCo shall be entitled to rely on the representations and warranties contained in Section 5.2. If such representations and warranties are not correct, Parent shall have the right to reallocate the distribution of the Aggregate Merger
Consideration among the Participants so as to effect the intent of Sections 2.1(c) and 2.1(d) above, but without increasing or decreasing the Aggregate Merger Consideration. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Aggregate Merger
Consideration payable to the Participants shall be without interest thereon.      (g)   Unvested Shares .  The
consideration payable pursuant to Section 2.1(d) with respect to any share of Company Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time that is unvested and subject to the Company s right or option to repurchase such share
(the   Repurchase Option  ) upon the purchaser s termination of employment or service with the Company or is otherwise subject to risk of forfeiture under any applicable restricted stock purchase agreement or other Contract
shall, unless such share constitutes a  [*] , be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.1(g)(i) below. The consideration payable pursuant to Section 2.1(d) with respect to any share of Company Common Stock outstanding
immediately prior to the Effective Time that constitutes a  [*]  shall be paid in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.1(g)(ii) below.      (i) The consideration payable pursuant to Section 2.1(d) with respect to any unvested share of Company Common Stock subject to this Section 2.1(g) that is not a  [*]  will also be unvested
and subject to the same Repurchase Option or risk of forfeiture applicable to such share and will vest incrementally over the record holder s period of continued service with the Surviving Corporation or Parent pursuant to the same vesting
schedule in effect for such share immediately prior to the Effective Time. Accordingly, (A) any consideration payable for such share of Company Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.1(d)(i) shall be held by Parent and shall not be paid or
otherwise delivered to the record holder of such share until the date on which such share would have (had the Merger not occurred) vested or as soon as administratively practicable thereafter, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar
month in which such vesting date occurs (or, with respect to any such shares that would vest on an accelerated basis upon the record holder s separation from service (within the meaning of Code Section 409A), the date of such separation
from service, subject to any required holdback under Section 409A(a)(2)(B) of the Code), (B) any consideration payable for such share of Company Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.1(d)(iii) shall be deposited into the Indemnity Escrow
Fund and shall not be paid until the later of (i) the date on which the consideration due with respect to such share pursuant to Section 2.1(d)(i) vests and becomes payable in accordance with the foregoing or (ii) the date on which
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         4   

the 2.1(d)(iii) consideration (if any) with respect to such share is released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund and distributions to the Participants are made in accordance with Section 2.1(e),
and (C) subject to and contingent upon the prior vesting of any such share, any consideration payable for such share of Company Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.1(d)(ii) shall be paid to the record holder on the same date or dates on
which the Section 2.1(d)(ii) consideration is paid to the holders of Company Common Stock in accordance with the provisions governing the payment of the Per Share Contingent Amount. All payments made pursuant to this Section 2.1(g)(i)
shall be subject to the collection of all applicable withholding taxes by the Surviving Corporation;  provided ,  however , that no withholding taxes shall be collected with respect to any unvested shares of Company Common Stock subject to
this Section 2.1(g)(i) as to which Parent has been provided with satisfactory evidence of a timely filed election under Section 83(b) of the Code prior to the Effective Time. The Company s rights with respect to each Repurchase Option
outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall automatically by reason of the Merger be deemed to have been assigned to Parent upon consummation of the Merger and shall thereafter be exercisable by Parent upon the same terms and
conditions that were in effect for such Repurchase Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, except that from and after the Effective Time, each such Repurchase Option or forfeiture provision shall apply to the consideration payable under
Section 2.1(d) with respect to the shares of Company Common Stock subject to such Repurchase Option. At or following the Effective Time, upon the payment to the record holder of the repurchase price per share in effect under the applicable
Repurchase Option immediately prior to the Effective Time, Parent shall be deemed to have repurchased all of the consideration otherwise payable under Section 2.1(d) with respect to each share of Company Common Stock covered by the exercised
Repurchase Option. Accordingly, upon the exercise of any such Repurchase Option or the occurrence of any forfeiture event pertaining to any such share of Company Common Stock at or following the Effective Time, Parent shall succeed to the entire
right, title and interest in and to all of the consideration payable under Section 2.1(d) with respect to such share, and the record holder shall cease to have any further right, title or interest in and to that consideration and shall only be
entitled to the repurchase price payable under the exercised Repurchase Option, if applicable. The Company shall, prior to the Effective Time, take all action that may be reasonably necessary to ensure that (and Parent shall have the right, from and
after the Effective Time, to take all action that may be necessary to ensure that): (1) the consideration payable under Section 2.1(d) with respect to any unvested share of Company Common Stock subject to this Section 2.1(g)(i) shall
remain so unvested and subject to such Repurchase Option or risk of forfeiture; (2) such consideration shall be paid in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.1(g)(i) following the vesting of the shares of Company
Common Stock to which that consideration pertains; and (3) Parent is entitled to exercise any such Repurchase Option or otherwise enforce any applicable forfeiture provision in any such restricted stock purchase agreement or other Contract. The
Company shall also, prior to the Effective Time, provide each holder of unvested shares of Company Common Stock  [*]  with written notice of the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.1(g)(i) relating to the consideration payable for such
shares, and the Company shall provide Parent in advance with a draft of such notice and shall reflect any   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         5   

comments reasonably made by Parent on such notice prior to distribution to the holders of the unvested shares.   
  (ii)  [*]       (iii)  [*]        Section 2.2  Dissenters  Rights . 
     (a) Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, no Dissenters  Shares shall be converted into or
represent a right to receive any cash pursuant to Section 2.1(c) or Section 2.1(d), and the holder of Dissenters  Shares shall only be entitled to such rights as are granted by the DGCL.   
  (b) If a holder of Shares who demanded appraisal of such Shares under the DGCL shall effectively withdraw, forfeit or otherwise lose
(through failure to perfect or otherwise) the right to appraisal of such Shares, then, as of the occurrence of such event (occurring after the Effective Time), and in each case subject to and in accordance with Section 3.1, each such Share
shall be converted into and represent only the right to receive the consideration in the Merger that such Share would have been entitled to receive in accordance with Section 2.1(c) or Section 2.1(d) had such Share never been a
Dissenters  Share.      (c) The Company shall give prompt notice to Parent of any written demands received by the Company for
appraisal of the Shares pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL, withdrawals of such demands and any other related instruments received by the Company, and Parent shall have the right to participate in all negotiations and proceedings with respect
to such demands. The Company shall not, except with the prior written consent of Parent, make any payment with respect to, or settle or offer to settle, any such demands.      (d) From and after the Effective Time, no holder of Dissenters  Shares shall be entitled to vote such Shares for any purpose or to receive payment of dividends or other distributions on such Shares.
      ARTICLE III        EXCHANGE PROCEDURES        Section 3.1  Exchange Procedures . 
     (a) Promptly following the Effective Time but not less than three Business Days thereafter, Parent shall mail or cause to be
mailed a letter of transmittal substantially in the form set forth on  Exhibit A  (the   Transmittal Letter  ) to each Stockholder of record of a certificate for Shares (each, a   Certificate   and, collectively,
the   Certificates  ) and each Stockholder of record of any uncertificated Shares that, immediately prior to the Effective Time, represented outstanding Shares. The Transmittal Letter shall contain instructions for use in effecting
the surrender of the Certificates and any uncertificated Shares in exchange for any applicable cash amount payable on account of such Shares pursuant to Section 2.1(c) or Section 2.1(d) to Stockholders.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         6   

(b) Upon surrender of a Certificate or uncertificated Share to the Exchange Agent (other
than Dissenters  Shares), together with the Transmittal Letter, duly executed, and such other documents as may be required by the Exchange Agent, following the Effective Time, the Exchange Agent shall deliver to the holder of such Certificate
or uncertificated Shares, subject to Section 3.7, in exchange for each converted (and canceled) Share represented thereby, the applicable cash amount payable on account of such Share pursuant to Section 2.1(c) or Section 2.1(d).
      Section 3.2  Payments to Persons Not Named in Certificates .  In the event of a transfer of ownership of
Shares that is not registered in the transfer records of the Company, payment may be made to a Person other than the Person in whose name the Certificate so surrendered is registered, if such Certificate shall be properly endorsed or otherwise be in
proper form for transfer and the Person requesting such payment shall pay any Transfer Taxes or other Taxes required by reason of such payment to a Person other than the registered holder of such Certificate or establish to the satisfaction of the
Exchange Agent that such Tax has been paid or is not applicable. Subject to the applicable provisions of the DGCL, until surrendered as contemplated by this Section 3.2, each Certificate shall be deemed at any time after the Effective Time to
no longer be outstanding and automatically be cancelled and retired and represent only the right to receive upon such surrender the applicable cash amount payable on account of such Share in accordance with Section 2.1(c) or
Section 2.1(d).       Section 3.3  No Further Ownership Rights   .  The consideration paid in accordance
with the terms of this Article III upon conversion of any Shares shall be deemed to have been paid in full satisfaction of all rights pertaining to such Shares, subject, however, to the Surviving Corporation s obligations to pay or provide for
the rights of holders of Dissenter s Shares. If, after the Effective Time, any certificates formerly representing Shares are presented to the Surviving Corporation or the Exchange Agent for any reason, they shall be exchanged as provided in
this Article III.       Section 3.4  Company Transfer Books; Lost Certificates .    
  (a) At the Effective Time, the stock transfer books of the Company shall be closed, and no transfer of Shares shall thereafter be made on
the records of the Company.      (b) If any Certificate shall have been lost, stolen or destroyed, upon the making of an affidavit
of that fact by the Person claiming such Certificate to be lost, stolen or destroyed and, if required by Parent, the delivery of an agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent pursuant to which such Person agrees to indemnify
Parent and the Surviving Corporation against any claim that may be made against Parent or the Surviving Corporation with respect to such Certificate, which agreement will not require a bond or other security in support of such indemnity obligation
unless the Exchange Agent shall reasonably require one in exchange for the lost, stolen or destroyed Certificate, Parent will direct the Exchange Agent to pay any cash to which the holder of such Certificate is entitled pursuant to Section 2.1,
all subject to and in accordance with Section 3.1.       Section 3.5  No Liability   .  None of Parent,
the Surviving Corporation or the Exchange Agent shall be liable to any Person in respect of any cash from the Exchange Fund delivered to a public official pursuant to any applicable abandoned property, escheat or similar
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         7   

Law. Subject to the previous sentence, if any Certificate has not been surrendered prior to one year after the Effective Time (or immediately prior to such earlier date on which any of the
consideration is payable in respect of such Certificate would otherwise escheat to or become the property of any Governmental Body), any cash in respect of such Certificate shall be delivered to the Surviving Corporation, and the holder of such
Certificate shall thereafter look only to the Surviving Corporation and Parent for the consideration payable with respect to the Shares formerly represented by such Certificate.   
   Section 3.6  Investment of Exchange Fund   .  The Exchange Agent shall invest the Exchange Fund in accordance with
the Exchange Agent Agreement. Any interest and other income resulting from such investments shall be paid to the Surviving Corporation.       Section 3.7  Withholding Rights   .  Parent, the Surviving Corporation, the Exchange Agent and the Escrow Agent shall be entitled to deduct and withhold from the consideration
otherwise payable to any holder of equity securities of the Company pursuant to this Agreement such amounts as may be required to be deducted and withheld with respect to the making of such payment under the Code, or under any provision of state,
local or foreign Tax law. To the extent that amounts are so withheld by Parent, the Surviving Corporation, the Exchange Agent or the Escrow Agent, such withheld amounts (a) shall be remitted by Parent, the Surviving Corporation, the Exchange
Agent or the Escrow Agent, as applicable, to the appropriate taxing authority and (b) shall be treated for all purposes of this Agreement as having been paid to the holder of equity securities of the Company in respect of which such deduction
and withholding was made by Parent, the Surviving Corporation, the Exchange Agent or the Escrow Agent, as the case may be.   
   Section 3.8  Certain Adjustments   .  If, after the execution and delivery hereof and prior to the Effective Time,
the outstanding Shares shall be changed into a different number of shares by reason of any reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination or exchange of shares, or any dividend payable in stock or other securities is declared thereon with
a record date within such period, or any similar event shall occur, the consideration payable per Share will be adjusted accordingly to provide to the holders of Shares the same economic effect as contemplated by this Agreement prior to such
reclassification, recapitalization, split-up, combination, exchange or dividend or similar event.       ARTICLE IV
       CLOSING; PAYMENT OF MERGER CONSIDERATION        Section 4.1  Closing Date   .  The closing of the Merger (the   Closing  ) shall occur at 10:00 a.m., local time on a Business Day to be designated by Parent, but in no
event later than the third Business Day after all of the conditions set forth in Articles X and XI capable of being satisfied prior to the Closing have been satisfied or waived (but subject to the satisfaction or waiver of such other conditions that
are only capable of being satisfied at the Closing), or such other date and time as shall be agreed upon by Parent and the Company, at the offices of Cooley LLP, 3175 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, CA 90434. The date on which the Closing actually occurs
is sometimes referred to herein as the   Closing Date .    
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         8   

Section 4.2  Closing Payments; Filing of Certificate of Merger and
Effectiveness   .  Subject to the fulfillment or waiver of the conditions to the respective obligations of each of the parties set forth in Article X or Article XI, as the case may be, at the Closing:   
  (a) Parent shall:      (i) deposit with U.S. Bank National Association, or such other escrow agent as Parent may designate (the   Escrow Agent  ) and named in the Escrow Agreement in substantially the form
attached hereto as  Exhibit B , with such changes as the Escrow Agent shall reasonably request prior to the Closing (the   Escrow Agreement  ), the Indemnity Escrow Amount to be held by the Escrow Agent in accordance with
the terms of the Escrow Agreement as security for the indemnification obligations contained in Section 12.1 (including earnings thereon, as set forth in the Escrow Agreement, the   Indemnity Escrow Fund   and   
  (ii) deposit with U.S. Bank National Association, or such other exchange agent as shall be mutually agreed to by the
parties prior to the Closing (the   Exchange Agent  ), pursuant to an Exchange and Paying Agent Agreement entered into among Parent, the Exchange Agent and the Representative (the   Exchange Agent Agreement  ), for the
benefit of the Stockholders, for exchange in accordance with Article III, through the Exchange Agent, by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the account specified by the Exchange Agent, cash equal to the aggregate amount of cash payable
to Stockholders pursuant to Sections 2.1(c) and 2.1(d) (cash deposited with the Exchange Agent by Parent or any Affiliate thereof being referred to as the   Exchange Fund  ).   
  (b) The parties shall cause the Merger to be consummated by filing a certificate of merger (which shall be in form and substance
satisfactory to Parent), executed and acknowledged in accordance with the Laws of the State of Delaware, in the office of the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware. The Merger shall become effective upon such filing as provided by the DGCL.
The time of the effectiveness of the Merger is herein called the   Effective Time .        Section 4.3
 Parent s Deliveries   .  Subject to the fulfillment or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article X, at the Closing, Parent shall deliver to the Company all of the following:   
  (a) the Exchange Agent Agreement, dated the Closing Date, duly executed by Parent;   
  (b) the Escrow Agreement, dated the Closing Date, duly executed by Parent; and   
  (c) the certificate contemplated by Section 11.1, duly executed by an authorized officer of Parent.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         9   

Section 4.4  AcquisitionCo s Deliveries   .  Subject to
fulfillment or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article X, at the Closing, AcquisitionCo shall deliver to the Company all of the following:      (a) the Escrow Agreement, dated the Closing Date, duly executed by AcquisitionCo; and      (b) the certificate contemplated by Section 11.1, duly executed by an authorized officer of AcquisitionCo.       Section 4.5  The Company s Deliveries   .  Subject to fulfillment or waiver of the conditions set forth in Article XI, at the Closing, the Company shall deliver to Parent all of
the following (in each case in a form reasonably acceptable to Parent):      (a) a copy of the Amended and Restated Certificate of
Incorporation of the Company, as amended (the   Company Charter  ), certified as of a recent date by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware;      (b) a certificate of good standing of the Company, issued as of a recent date by the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware and by the Secretary of State of each other state set forth on  Schedule
5.1(a) ;      (c) a certificate of the Secretary of the Company, dated the Closing Date, in form and substance reasonably
satisfactory to Parent, as to: (i) no amendments to the Company Charter since a specified date; (ii) the by-laws of the Company (the   Company Bylaws  ) in effect from the date of the board approval referenced in the next
clause to immediately prior to the Effective Time; (iii) the resolutions of the board of directors of the Company and of the Stockholders authorizing the execution and performance of this Agreement and the transactions contemplated hereby; and
(iv) the incumbency of the officers of the Company executing this Agreement and any Company Ancillary Agreements;      (d)
the Exchange Agent Agreement, dated the Closing Date, duly executed by the Representative;      (e) the Escrow Agreement, dated
the Closing Date, duly executed by each of the Company and the Representative;      (f) payoff letters or other evidence that all
Closing Indebtedness of the Company has been repaid in full, including any pre-payment penalties or change of control premiums or penalties, make-whole amounts or similar payments required in connection with the Merger or prepayment or early
termination of such Closing Indebtedness which, in each case, are due and payable prior to the Effective Time, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent; all Encumbrances relating to or securing such Closing Indebtedness have been
released; related UCC-3 Termination Statements shall have been filed with respect to any such Encumbrances; and there are no further obligations of the Company in respect of that Closing Indebtedness or any agreement or instrument that evidenced the
same, in each case prior to the Closing Date;   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         10   

(g) general releases, in substantially the form set forth on  Exhibit D  (the
  Release Agreements  ), in favor of the Company and Parent, to be effective as of the Effective Time, signed by the Persons listed on  Schedule 4.5(g) ;      (h)  [*] ;      (i) offer letters with the Specified Employees;   
  (j) evidence of the termination of the Company Co-Sale Agreement, the Company Investor Rights Agreement and the Company Voting Agreement,
in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent, and effective waivers under such agreements of any rights of any party thereto in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby;   
  (k) evidence of the termination, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent, of each of the agreements listed on  Schedule
4.5(k)  and the satisfaction in full of all obligations of the Company thereunder;      (l) duly executed resignations,
effective as of the Effective Time, of each of the directors of the Company, in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent;      (m) estoppel certificates from all landlords under the Leased Real Properties, in substantially the form set forth on  Exhibit E  with such changes as the applicable landlords shall reasonably
request prior to the Closing;      (n) the certificates contemplated by Sections 10.1(c) and 10.2, each duly executed on behalf of
the Company by the Chief Executive Officer or any Senior Vice President of the Company;      (o) a statement, in substantially the
form set forth on  Exhibit F , in accordance with Treas. Reg. Section 1.1445-2(c)(3) and 1.897-2(h) certifying that the Company is not, and has not been, a  United States real property holding corporation  for purposes of
Sections 897 and 1445 of the Code (the   FIRPTA Certificate  ) not more than 20 days prior to the Closing Date and a notification to the Internal Revenue Service described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.897-2(h)(2) regarding
delivery of the FIRPTA Certificate to Parent, signed on behalf of the Company by a responsible corporate officer of the Company;      (p) evidence (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent) of the Company s compliance with the actions required on its part pursuant to Section 8.8 with respect to the assumption of
certain Company Options and the cancellation of the remaining Company Options and the termination of the Company s 401(k) Plan as required pursuant to Section 9.2(e);   
  (q) an opinion from Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin   Hachigian, counsel to the Company, in substantially the form
of  Exhibit G  hereto, addressed to Parent and dated the Closing Date;      (r) evidence (in form and substance reasonably
satisfactory to Parent) of adoption of resolutions of the Company s board of directors with respect to each Company Benefit Plan that is a health and welfare plan, including any medical, dental, life insurance,
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         11   

AD D, short-term disability (STD), long-term disability (LTD) and section 125 cafeteria benefit plans, to exclude Parent s employees from participation in such plans on and after the
Closing Date, and providing that such plans shall be subject to Parent s settlor, fiduciary and governance delegations in the same manner as Parent s similar health and welfare plans; and   
  (s) all consents, waivers or approvals obtained by the Company with respect to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement.       ARTICLE V        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE COMPANY       As an inducement to Parent and
AcquisitionCo to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby, the Company represents and warrants to Parent and AcquisitionCo as set forth in this Article V, subject (to the extent provided below) to the
qualifications set forth in the written disclosure schedules attached hereto (the   Disclosure Schedule  ). The Disclosure Schedule shall be arranged in sections and subsections corresponding to the numbered and lettered sections and
subsections contained in this Article V. The disclosure in any section or subsection of the Disclosure Schedule shall qualify the representations and warranties set forth in the correspondingly numbered section or subsection of this Agreement, and
shall qualify the representations and warranties set forth in other sections and subsections of this Article V only to the extent that (a) the disclosure in one subsection of the Disclosure Schedule is specifically referred to in another
subsection of the Disclosure Schedule by a clear and explicit cross-reference or (b) the relevance of a disclosure in one subsection of the Disclosure Schedule to another subsection of the Disclosure Schedule is reasonably apparent on the face
of such disclosure.       Section 5.1  Organization and Authority of the Company .    
  (a) The Company is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware. The
Company is duly qualified to transact business as a foreign corporation and is in good standing in each of the jurisdictions listed on  Schedule 5.1(a) , which jurisdictions are the only jurisdictions in which the ownership or leasing of the
Company s properties or the conduct of the Company s business requires such qualification, except where the lack of such qualification would not have and could not reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect. No other
jurisdiction has demanded, requested or otherwise indicated that the Company is required to so qualify. The Company has full corporate power and authority to own or lease and operate its properties and assets and to carry on its business as now
conducted. The Company has delivered to Parent true and complete copies of the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws and the Company s minute books, and such minute books contain true and complete records of all meetings and other corporate
actions taken by the board of directors and stockholders of the Company.      (b) The Company has all requisite corporate power
and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and each of the Company Ancillary Agreements and to perform its obligations hereunder and thereunder. The board of directors of the Company, by resolutions duly adopted at a meeting duly called and
held, has, by unanimous vote of those present at the meeting, (i) approved and authorized the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Company Ancillary Agreements, (ii) approved the consummation of the transactions
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         12   

contemplated hereby and thereby, including the Merger, (iii) determined that the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the Company Ancillary Agreements and the consummation of the
transactions contemplated hereby and thereby is advisable, (iv) recommended that the Stockholders adopt this Agreement, and (v) directed that this Agreement be submitted to the stockholders of the Company for their adoption. Except for the
adoption of this Agreement by the Necessary Stockholder Approval and the filing contemplated by Section 4.2(b), no other corporate proceedings on the part of the Company are necessary to authorize this Agreement or the Company Ancillary
Agreements or any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Company and (assuming the valid authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by each of Parent
and AcquisitionCo) is a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms, and each of the Company Ancillary Agreements has been duly authorized by the Company and upon execution and delivery by the Company
will be (assuming the valid authorization, execution and delivery by each of the other parties thereto) a legal, valid and binding obligation of the Company enforceable in accordance with its terms, in each case, subject to bankruptcy, insolvency,
reorganization, moratorium and similar Laws of general application relating to or affecting creditors  rights and to general principles of equity (the   General Exceptions  ).   
  (c) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.1(c)  and subject to the Necessary Stockholder Approval, neither the execution and delivery
by the Company of this Agreement or any of the Company Ancillary Agreements nor the consummation by the Company of any of the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby nor compliance with or fulfillment of the terms, conditions or provisions
hereof or thereof by the Company will:      (i) conflict with, result in a breach of the terms, conditions or
provisions of, or constitute a default, an event of default or an event creating rights of acceleration, termination or cancellation or a loss of rights under, or result in the creation or imposition of any Encumbrance upon any of the assets or
business of the Company, under (A) the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws, the Company Investor Rights Agreement, the Company Voting Agreement or the Company Co-Sale Agreement, (B) any note, instrument, Contract, mortgage, lease, license,
franchise, permit or other authorization, right, restriction or obligation to which the Company is a party or any of its assets or business is subject or by which the Company is bound, (C) any Court Order to which the Company is a party or by
which any of its assets or business is subject or by which the Company is bound or (D) any Law applicable to the Company or its assets or business; or      (ii) require the approval, consent, authorization or act of, or the making by the Company of any declaration, filing or registration with, any Person, except for the filing of the certificate of merger as
contemplated by Section 4.2(b) with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware.       Section 5.2  Capital
Structure .       (a) The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of 28,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock and
21,100,000 shares of Company Preferred Stock. Of the   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         13   

Company Preferred Stock, 6,000,000 shares have been designated Series A Preferred Stock, 6,400,000 shares have been designated Series B Preferred Stock, and 8,700,000 shares have been designated
Series C Preferred Stock.      (b) At the close of business on the date hereof:   
  (i) 5,487,004 shares of Company Common Stock were issued and outstanding, all of which were validly issued, fully paid and
nonassessable, 3,597,900 shares of Company Common Stock have been authorized for issuance pursuant to the Company Stock Plan over the term of such plan, and 3,160,076 shares of Company Common Stock had been issued under the Company Stock Plan,
267,655 shares of Company Common Stock were subject to outstanding options, whether vested or unvested, and 526,342 shares of Company Common Stock remained available for future award under the Company Stock Plan;   
  (ii) 6,000,000 shares of Series A Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding, all of which were validly issued, fully
paid and nonassessable and are, as of the date hereof, convertible into 6,000,000 shares of Company Common Stock;      (iii) 6,400,000 shares of Series B Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding, all of which were validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and are, as of the date hereof, convertible into 6,400,000
shares of Company Common Stock;      (iv) 6,907,406 shares of Series C Preferred Stock were issued and outstanding,
all of which were validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and are, as of the date hereof, convertible into 6,907,406 shares of Company Common Stock;      (v) no shares of Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock were held in the treasury of the Company; and      (vi) no other equity interests in the Company are outstanding.      (c)  Schedule
5.2(c)(i)  contains a correct and complete list as of the date hereof of each outstanding option to acquire Shares from the Company, whether vested or unvested, and whether granted under the Company Stock Plan or otherwise (  Company
Option  ) as of the date hereof, including the name of the holder, date of grant, current exercise price per Share and number of Shares subject thereto, the expiration date of the option term, the plan under which such option was granted,
the schedule and other terms and conditions on which the option became or will become vested or exercisable and whether such Company Option is an incentive stock option under Section 422 of the Code.  Schedule 5.2(c)(i)  also lists as of
the date hereof each outstanding award of unvested shares of Company Common Stock, whether issued under the Company Stock Plan or otherwise (  Unvested Share Awards  ) and includes, as to each such Unvested Share Award, the name of
the holder, the number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to that award, the vesting schedule for those Shares and the purchase price paid per share for those Shares. On the Closing Date, the Company shall deliver to Parent an updated list of
all Company Options and Unvested Share Awards that is current as of that date. Each Company Option and Unvested Share Award has been granted in compliance with applicable federal and state securities Laws and, each Company Option either has an
exercise price per share not less   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         14   

than the fair market value per share of Company Common Stock on the applicable grant date or has been structured so as to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code applicable
to options granted with a below fair market value exercise price. Except as described in  Schedule 5.2(c)(i) , no Company Option or Unvested Share Award shall vest in whole or in part on an accelerated basis as a result of the execution of this
Agreement or the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby.      (d) Except for the Company Charter, the Company
Co-Sale Agreement, the Company Investor Rights Agreement and the Company Voting Agreement, each as in effect on the date hereof, and except as set forth on  Schedule 5.2(c)(i)  and  Schedule 5.2(d) , there are no options, warrants, puts,
calls, rights, arrangements, commitments or agreements to which the Company is a party or by which it is bound or, to the Knowledge of the Company, to which any other Person is a party, relating to the issuance, sale, purchase, repurchase,
conversion, exchange, registration, voting, transfer or redemption of any Shares or other equity interests or equity equivalents of the Company, whether on conversion of other securities or otherwise, or obligating the Company to grant, extend or
enter into any such option, warrant, put, call, right, arrangement, commitment or agreement, and there are no outstanding contractual rights to which the Company is a party, the value of which is based on the value of any Shares. There are no
outstanding contractual obligations of the Company to repurchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any Shares.      (e) Except for the
Company Voting Agreement, as in effect on the date hereof, and as set forth on  Schedule 5.2(e) , the Company is not a party to and, to the Knowledge of the Company, there does not exist any stockholder agreement, voting trust agreement or any
other similar Contract restricting or otherwise relating to the voting, dividend, ownership or transfer rights of any shares of capital stock of the Company.      (f) The Company does not have any outstanding bonds, debentures, notes or other obligations the holders of which have the right to vote (or that are convertible into or exercisable for securities having
the right to vote) with the Stockholders on any matter.      (g) None of the Shares has been issued in violation of, or are
subject to, any preemptive or subscription rights, and all of the Shares have been offered, issued, sold and delivered by the Company in compliance with all applicable federal and state securities Laws.   
  (h) The Company Stock Plan is the only benefit plan of the Company under which any securities of the Company are issuable to officers,
managers, employees and consultants of the Company and the non-employee members of the Company s board of directors. Except as set forth in Section 5.2(b)(i) and Section 5.2(c), no securities of the Company are issued, reserved for
issuance or outstanding under the Company Stock Plan. The terms of the Company Stock Plan and the outstanding Company Options thereunder permit the treatment of the Company Stock Plan and such Company Options in accordance with Section 8.8 and
the actions to be taken by the Company s board of directors thereunder, and do not require the consent or approval of the holders of those Company Options with respect to the disposition of those Company Options in accordance with the
provisions of Section 8.8 applicable to those Options. To the Company s Knowledge, elections under Section 83(b) of the Code have been timely filed with the applicable Internal Revenue Service Center with respect to all unvested
shares of Company Common Stock that have been issued to officers, managers, employees,   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         15   

non-employee members of the board of directors or consultants of the Company, and the Company has provided Parent with a true and correct copy of each such filed election under Section 83(c)
of the Code in its possession.      (i)  Schedule 5.2(i)  sets forth (i) as of the date hereof, the aggregate unpaid
accrued dividends (whether or not declared) with respect to all outstanding Shares of each series of Company Preferred Stock and (ii) the aggregate applicable per diem amount of dividends with respect to all outstanding Shares of each series of
Company Preferred Stock as of the date hereof. Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.2(i) , no share of any series of Company Preferred Stock entitles the holder thereof to any dividends (whether or not declared) to which each other share of such
series of Company Preferred Stock is not entitled.       Section 5.3  Subsidiaries and Investments   .  The
Company does not, directly or indirectly, (a) own, of record or beneficially, any outstanding voting securities or other equity interests in any Person or (b) Control any Person. Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.3 , the Company has
never, directly or indirectly, (y) owned, of record or beneficially, any outstanding voting securities or other equity interests in any Person or (z) Controlled any Person.   
   Section 5.4  Financial Statements   .   Schedule 5.4  contains (a) the audited balance sheet of the
Company as of December 31, 2009 and the related statements of (i) operations, (ii) changes in redeemable convertible preferred stock, stockholders  equity (deficit) and comprehensive loss and (iii) cash flows for the fiscal
year ended December 31, 2009, together with the appropriate notes to such financial statements, and (b) the unaudited balance sheet of the Company as of November 30, 2010 and the related statements of operations and cash flows for the
fiscal quarter then ended (the   Most Recent Financial Statements  ). Except as set forth therein or in the notes thereto, such financial statements have been prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and fairly present the financial
position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company as of their respective dates and for the respective periods covered thereby;  provided ,  however , that the Most Recent Financial Statements are subject to normal year-end
adjustments and lack footnotes and other presentational items.       Section 5.5  No Undisclosed
Liabilities   .  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.5 , the Company is not subject to any liabilities of any nature (including unasserted claims, whether known or unknown), whether absolute, contingent, accrued or otherwise, other
than (a) those shown or reserved for on the Balance Sheet, other than immaterial liabilities incurred after the Balance Sheet Date in the ordinary course of the Company s business consistent with past business practices or (b) those
arising under the Company s contracts listed on Schedule 5.14, assuming no breach thereof or default thereunder.   
   Section 5.6  Operations Since Balance Sheet Date   .    
  (a) Except as set forth on Schedule 5.6, since the Balance Sheet Date, there has not been:   
  (i) any change, event or development or, to the Knowledge of the Company, prospective change, event or development that,
individually or in the aggregate, has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect;   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         16   

(ii)  [*] ;   
  (iii) any loss, damage, destruction or other casualty affecting any of the Company s material properties or assets,
whether or not covered by insurance; or      (iv) any loans or guarantees made by the Company to or for the benefit
of any Person, or any arrangement or commitment therefor made by the Company, other than with respect to travel advances and other advances made in the ordinary course of its business and in compliance with Company policy.   
  (b) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.6 , since the Balance Sheet Date, the Company has conducted its business only in the ordinary
course of its business consistent with past business practices. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, since the Balance Sheet Date, except as set forth on  Schedule 5.6 , the Company has not taken any action that, if taken after the
date hereof, would constitute a breach of any of the covenants set forth in Section 8.6.       Section 5.7
 Taxes .       (a) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.7 : (i) the Company has filed all Tax Returns required to
be filed; (ii) all such Tax Returns are complete and accurate in all material respects and disclose all Taxes required to be paid by the Company for the periods covered thereby; (iii) all Taxes (whether or not shown on any Tax Return) owed
by the Company have been timely paid; (iv) the Company has not waived or been requested to waive any statute of limitations in respect of Taxes which waiver is currently in effect; (v) there is no action or suit pending or, to the
Knowledge of the Company, proposed or threatened with respect to Taxes of the Company and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no basis exists therefor; (vi) there is no investigation, audit, claim or assessment pending, or to the Knowledge of the
Company, proposed or threatened with respect to Taxes of the Company; (vii) all deficiencies asserted or assessments made as a result of any examination of the Tax Returns referred to in clause (i) have been paid in full; (viii) all
Tax Sharing Arrangements and Tax indemnity arrangements relating to the Company (other than this Agreement) will terminate prior to the Effective Time and the Company will not have any liability thereunder on or after the Effective Time;
(ix) there are no liens for Taxes upon the assets of the Company except liens relating to current Taxes not yet due; (x) all Taxes which the Company is required by Law to withhold or to collect for payment have been duly withheld and
collected, and have been paid to the appropriate taxing authority or accrued, reserved against and entered on the books of the Company; (xi) the Company has not been a member of any Company Group and the Company has not had at any time any
direct or indirect ownership in any corporation, partnership, limited liability company, trust, joint venture or other entity; (xii) the Company is not currently the beneficiary of any extension of time within which to file any Tax Return;
(xiii) no claim has ever been made in writing by a taxing authority in a jurisdiction where the Company has never paid Taxes or filed Tax Returns asserting that the Company is or may be subject to Taxes assessed by such jurisdiction;
(xiv) there are no Tax rulings, requests for rulings or closing agreements relating to the Company which could affect the Company s liability for Taxes for any taxable period ending after the Effective Time; (xv) the Company will not
be required to include any adjustment under Section 481(c) of the Code (or any corresponding provision of state, local or other Tax law) in taxable income for any taxable period ending after the Effective Time as a result of a change in
accounting method for a taxable period   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         17   

beginning at or before the Effective Time or for any Straddle Period; (xvi) the Company does not have any liability for Taxes of another Person under Treasury Regulation
Section 1.1502-6 (or any other similar provision of state, local or foreign Law); (xvii) to the extent that the Company has participated in a transaction that is a  reportable transaction  within the meaning of Treasury
Regulation Section 1.6011-4(b)(1), such participation has been adequately disclosed to the IRS on IRS Form 8886 (or predecessor form); (xviii) during the last three years, the Company has not been a party to any transaction (other than a
transaction described in Section 355(e)(2)(C) of the Code) treated by the parties thereto as one to which Section 355 of the Code (or similar provision of state, local or foreign Law) applied; (xix) there are no Tax credits, grants or
similar amounts that are or will be subject to  clawback  or recapture as a result of (A) the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or (B) an act (or failure to act) by the Company to satisfy certain requirements on which
the credit, grant or similar amount is or was conditioned; and (xx) no intercompany obligation (as described in Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-13(g)) between the Company and a member of any Company Group will remain outstanding
following the Effective Time; (xxi) none of the assets reflected on the Balance Sheet is  tax-exempt use property  within the meaning of Section 168(h) of the Code and none of the property of the Company is properly treated as
owned by persons other than the Company for income Tax purposes; (xxii) the Company has not participated in or cooperated with an international boycott, within the meaning of Section 999 of the Code, nor has any such corporation had
operations which are or may hereafter become reportable under Section 999 of the Code; (xxiii) the Company has not disposed of property in a transaction being accounted for under the installment method pursuant to Section 453 or 453A
of the Code; (xxiv) the Company does not have corporate acquisition indebtedness, as described in Section 279(b) of the Code; and (xxv) during the four taxable years ending on December 31, 2009, for federal (and corresponding
state, local and foreign) income Tax purposes, the Company has not been subject to the alternative minimum tax imposed by Section 55 of the Code (or comparable provisions of state, local and foreign income Tax laws).   
  (b) The Company has delivered to Parent a schedule of any net operating loss (or alternative minimum tax net operating loss) carryover of
the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2009 as reported on its Tax Return for such year (without regard to any limitations under Sections 382 and 384 of the Code) and with respect to such net operating loss carryover, (i) the
amount of such carryover and (ii) the year in which the carryover arose.      (c) No transaction contemplated by this
Agreement is subject to withholding under Section 1445 of the Code (relating to   FIRPTA  ).      (d) The
Company has collected and deposited on a timely basis with the applicable taxing authorities all applicable federal, state and local income, employment and payroll withholding taxes with respect to wages and other compensation, whether payable in
cash, equity or other form of consideration, paid or made available to its current or former employees and has, with respect to all elections filed under Section 83(b) of the Code, collected and deposited on a timely basis with the applicable
taxing authorities the applicable federal, state and local income, employment and payroll withholding taxes with respect to any income resulting from the excess (if any) of the fair market value of the property subject to each such election and the
amount paid for that property.       Section 5.8  Governmental Permits; Regulatory Matters .    
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         18   

(a) The Company owns, holds or possesses (and at the time of the performance of all
preclinical research, clinical development and manufacturing that it has conducted or sponsored, it did own, hold or possess) all material licenses, franchises, permits, privileges, immunities, approvals and other authorizations from Governmental
Bodies which are (or at the time of the performance of such preclinical research, clinical development and manufacturing, were) necessary to entitle it to own or lease, operate and use its assets and to carry on and conduct its business
substantially as currently conducted including, for the avoidance of doubt, the conduct of all preclinical research, clinical development and manufacturing (collectively, the   Governmental Permits  ).  Schedule 5.8(a)  sets
forth a list of each Governmental Permit, except for such licenses, permits and other authorizations which would be readily obtainable by any qualified applicant without undue burden in the event of any lapse, termination, cancellation or forfeiture
thereof. Complete and correct copies of all of the Governmental Permits have been delivered to Parent.      (b) Except as set
forth in  Schedule 5.8(b) : (i) the Company has fulfilled and performed its obligations in all material respects under each of the Governmental Permits, and, to the Knowledge of the Company, no event has occurred or condition or state of
facts exists which constitutes or, after notice or lapse of time or both, would constitute a breach or default under any such Governmental Permit or which permits or, after notice or lapse of time or both, would permit revocation or termination of
any such Governmental Permit, or which could materially and adversely affect the rights of the Company under any such Governmental Permit; (ii) no written notice of cancellation, of default or of any dispute concerning any Governmental Permit,
or of any event, condition or state of facts described in the preceding clause, has been received by the Company; and (iii) each of the Governmental Permits is valid, subsisting and in full force and effect and will continue in full force and
effect following the Effective Time, in each case without (A) the occurrence of any breach, default or forfeiture of rights thereunder or (B) the consent, approval, or act of, or the making of any filing with, any Governmental Body.
     (c) The Company has not engaged in activities which require compliance with 21 U.S.C. Section 355, 42 U.S.C.
Section 262, FDA implementing regulations under 21 C.F.R. Parts 312, 314, 600 and 601 or similar Laws in countries other than the United States. Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.8(c) , the Company has not conducted or sponsored, and is
not currently conducting or sponsoring, any clinical trials, nor have any clinical trials been conducted or sponsored on the Company s behalf. Each of the clinical trials set forth in Schedule 5.8(c) was conducted or are being conducted in
compliance with all applicable Laws. As of the date hereof, no investigational new drug application filed by or on behalf of the Company with the FDA has been terminated or suspended by the FDA, and the FDA has not commenced, or threatened to
initiate, any action (i) to place a clinical hold order on, or otherwise terminate, delay or suspend, any proposed or ongoing clinical investigation conducted or proposed to be conducted by the Company.   
  (d) None of the Company nor any of its officers, employees or agents has made an untrue statement of a material fact or fraudulent
statement to the FDA or other Governmental Body, failed to disclose a material fact required to be disclosed to the FDA or any other Governmental Body, or committed an act, made a statement, or failed to make a statement that, at the time such
disclosure was made, could reasonably be expected to provide a basis for the FDA or any other Governmental Body to invoke its policy respecting  Fraud, Untrue Statements   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         19   

of Material Facts, Bribery, and Illegal Gratuities  set forth in 56 Fed. Reg. 46191 (September 10, 1991) or any similar policy. None of the Company nor any of its respective officers,
employees or agents has been convicted of any crime or engaged in any conduct for which debarment is mandated by 21 U.S.C. Section 335a(a) or any similar Law or authorized by 21 U.S.C. Section 335a(b) or any similar Law. The Company has
not used the services of any person debarred under Section 306 of the Federal Food Drug and Cosmetic Act in connection with the development of any information related to any Product, which information was or is intended to be submitted to the
FDA.      (e) Neither the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any Affiliate of the Company, has ever participated as a
provider in any Federal Health Care Program. To the Knowledge of the Company, no officers, directors, managing employees, agents, or individuals with direct or indirect ownership interests (or any combination thereof) of 5% or more in the Company
(as those terms are defined in 42 C.F.R.   1001.1001) or any of its Affiliates has ever been excluded from participation as a provider in any Federal Health Care Program. The Company is not currently, nor has it been in the past: (i) to
the Knowledge of the Company, under investigation by the Department of Justice, the Office of the Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, any state Attorney General,
state Medicaid Agency, or the FDA for promotional or other fraud and abuse or related issues; (ii) excluded from participation under any Federal Health Care Program under Section 1128 of the SSA; or (iii) suspended or debarred from
contracting with the federal government. The Company has not engaged in any activity constituting fraud or abuse under any Law relating to healthcare insurance or reimbursement, and no offers or payments of either cash or other consideration to any
person by or on behalf of the Company have been made by or on behalf of the Company in violation of any applicable Law.      (f)
The Company has not billed or caused to be billed any commercial insurance plan or any health care program administered or funded, in whole or in part, by the government of the United States of America, including Medicare, Medicaid and TRICARE
programs (described in Title XVIII of the United States the SSA, Title XIX of the SSA, and Title 10, Chapter 55 of the U.S.C., respectively for any item or service.      (g) All preclinical research, clinical development and manufacturing that the Company has conducted or sponsored involving any Product was conducted in compliance with the good laboratory practice
requirements and standards of 21 C.F.R. part 58, to the extent that such requirements and standards were applicable thereto.   
  (h) Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.8(h) , the Company is not aware of any information that to the Knowledge of the Company would
be reasonably expected to prevent the acceptance, or the subsequent approval, of any filing, application or request for approval of any Product.      (i) The Company has delivered to Parent all applications, registrations, licenses, authorizations and approvals, correspondence submitted to or received from FDA or another regulatory authority (including
minutes and official contact reports relating to any communications with any regulatory authority) and all supporting documents and all preclinical studies and other data, relating to the Products (  Regulatory Documentation  ) in the
Company s   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         20   

possession or control, requested by Parent, or to the Knowledge of the Company, that is material to the development of such Products. To the Knowledge of the Company, all Regulatory Documentation
regarding such Products is true and correct in all material aspects.       Section 5.9  Real Property . 
     (a)  Schedule 5.9(a)  sets forth a list and brief description of each lease or similar agreement (showing the parties
thereto, annual rental, expiration date, renewal and purchase options, if any, the improvements thereon, and the location of the real property covered by, and the space occupied under, such lease or other agreement) under which the Company is lessee
of, or holds, uses or operates, any real property owned by any third Person (the   Leased Real Property  ). Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.9(a) , and except for Permitted Encumbrances, there are no agreements or other
documents governing or affecting the occupancy or tenancy of any of the Leased Real Property by the Company. Complete and correct copies of any instruments evidencing Encumbrances, commitments for the issuance of title insurance, title opinions,
surveys and appraisals in the Company s possession and any policies of title insurance currently in force and in the possession of the Company with respect to each such parcel of Leased Real Property have been delivered to Parent.   
  (b) Neither the whole nor any part of any real property leased, used or occupied by the Company is subject to any pending suit for
condemnation or other taking by any public authority, and no such condemnation or other taking is threatened or contemplated.   
  (c) The Company does not own and has never owned any real property, and does not have any right or obligation to acquire any real
property.       Section 5.10  Personal Property Leases   .   Schedule 5.10  contains a brief description
of each lease or other Contract (including in each case the annual rental, the expiration date thereof and a brief description of the property covered) under which the Company is lessee of, or holds or operates, any machinery, equipment, vehicle or
other tangible personal property owned by a third Person, except for any such lease, Contract or right that is terminable by the Company without penalty or payment on 30 days  or less notice or which provides for annual lease payments of less
than  [*] .       Section 5.11  Intellectual Property .    
  (a)  Schedule 5.11(a)  contains a list and description (showing in each case the registered or other owner, applicant, expiration
date and number, if any) of all (i) Patents owned by the Company and (ii) Patents exclusively licensed to the Company, (iii) Patents non-exclusively licensed to the Company; (iv) Trademarks (including all assumed or fictitious
names under which the Company is conducting or has conducted its business) owned by or exclusively licensed to the Company and (v) registered Copyrights owned by or exclusively licensed to the Company (it being understood and agreed that
 Schedule 5.11(a)  is not limiting with respect to the Intellectual Property directly or indirectly being acquired by Parent pursuant to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement). Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(a) , no
Intellectual Property owned by or exclusively licensed to the Company that are United States Patents are subject to a terminal disclaimer against another Patent.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         21   

(b)  Schedule 5.11(b)  contains a list and description (showing in each case any owner,
licensor or licensee) of all material Software owned by or licensed to the Company (except for Software licensed to the Company that is commercially available subject to  shrink-wrap  or  click-through  license agreements).
     (c)  Schedule 5.11(c)  contains a list and description (showing in each case the parties thereto) of all material
Contracts, assignments and indemnities to which the Company is a party and which relate to: (i) any Copyrights, Patents or Trademarks listed on  Schedule 5.11(a) ; or (ii) any Material Trade Secrets owned by, licensed to or used by
the Company. Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.11(b)  or  Schedule 5.11(c) , the Company is not a party to any Contract pursuant to which it has been granted a license, sublicense, covenant not to sue or any similar right or benefit to
any Intellectual Property and is obligated, or may become obligated, to pay any royalties, milestones, license fees or other similar payments.      (d) The Company has documented in sufficient detail, and the Company has used reasonable efforts to maintain the confidentiality of its Trade Secrets that are (i) required in order to research,
develop, manufacture, market or sell any product researched, developed, manufactured, marketed or sold by the Company, or (ii) otherwise material to the Company (collectively, the   Material Trade Secrets  ), in each case to
allow the Company to be able to continually use and exploit all such Material Trade Secrets as such Material Trade Secrets are currently used and exploited. The Company operates and enforces reasonable procedures designed to ensure the recording and
maintenance of all know-how and other Intellectual Property and assignment to the Company of all Owned Intellectual Property, which include requiring all employees, consultants, contractors, officers, service providers and agents of the Company
involved in the creation, development or implementation of such Intellectual Property to maintain notebooks describing such activities in reasonable detail sufficient to enable the Company to document and otherwise protect, enforce and defend its
rights in and to such Intellectual Property.      (e) Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(e) , the Company: (i) owns
the entire right, title and interest in and to the Intellectual Property purported to be owned by the Company (including as set forth in  Schedule 5.11(a) ), free and clear of Encumbrances except for Permitted Encumbrances (  Owned
Intellectual Property   (ii) has the perpetual, world-wide, royalty-free right to use the Intellectual Property and Software purported to be licensed to the Company (including as set forth in  Schedule 5.11(a) )
(  Licensed Intellectual Property   (iii) to the Knowledge of the Company, has the exclusive right to use the Intellectual Property purported to be exclusively licensed to the Company (  Exclusively Licensed Intellectual
Property  ) and (iv) has not granted any option, license, covenant not to sue or similar interest or benefit, exclusive or otherwise, in, to or under the Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property. Except as disclosed
on  Schedule 5.11(e)  to the Knowledge of the Company, there is no other Intellectual Property necessary for the Company to conduct its business as currently conducted. Except as set forth in Schedule 5.11(e), the Company s ability to use
Licensed Intellectual Property necessary for the Company to conduct its business substantially as currently conducted will not be adversely affected by the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.11(e) ,
the Company is listed in the records of the appropriate United States, state or non-U.S. registry as the sole current owner of record for each application and registration required to be identified on  Schedule 5.11(a)  as being owned by the
Company.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         22   

(f) Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(f) : (i) all Owned Intellectual Property
and, to the Knowledge of the Company, all Licensed Intellectual Property and all registrations for Owned Intellectual Property and, to the Knowledge of the Company, Licensed Intellectual Property are valid and in force and all maintenance fees and
annuity fees relating thereto and currently and previously due have been paid, and all applications to register any unregistered Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property are pending and in good standing, all without challenge of
any kind; (ii) the issued Patents, and registered Trademarks within the Owned Intellectual Property are valid and enforceable and the Company has not, to the Knowledge of the Company, taken or failed to take any action in the prosecution or
maintenance of such issued Patents or the registration of the registered Trademarks that has caused them not to be valid and enforceable; (iii) to the Knowledge of the Company, the issued Patents within the Exclusively Licensed Intellectual
Property are valid and enforceable and the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, the licensor has taken or failed to take any action in the prosecution or maintenance of such issued Patents that has caused them not to be valid and
enforceable; (iv) there are no pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened interference, re-examination, reissue, opposition, cancellation or other similar proceedings involving the Owned Intellectual Property or the Licensed
Intellectual Property; (v) the Company has the sole and exclusive right to bring actions for infringement or unauthorized use of the Owned Intellectual Property and the Exclusively Licensed Intellectual Property; (vi) the Company has taken
all actions reasonably necessary to protect, including where necessary to register, the material Copyrights, Trademarks, Patents and Trade Secrets owned by or licensed to the Company; and (vii) the Company has not materially breached, and is
not in material breach of, any agreement affecting the Intellectual Property used by the Company, and has not taken any action that would impair or otherwise adversely affect its rights in the Intellectual Property used by the Company.   
  (g) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.11(g) : (i) to the Knowledge of the Company, no infringement, misappropriation,
dilution, violation or other unauthorized use of any Intellectual Property of any other Person has occurred or resulted in any way from the operation of the Company s business; (ii) no claim of any infringement, misappropriation or other
unauthorized use of any Intellectual Property right of any other Person has been made or asserted in respect of the operation of the Company s business; (iii) no written claim, and to the Knowledge of the Company, no other claim, of
invalidity of any Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property has been made to Company; (iv) no proceedings are pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened which challenge the validity, ownership or use of any
Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property; (v) the Company has not received any written notice, and to the Knowledge of Company, any other notice, of any claim that the operations of the Company s business infringe,
misappropriate, dilute, violate or otherwise use without authorization any Intellectual Property right of any other Person and, to the Knowledge of the Company, there is no basis for any such claim; and (vi) to the Knowledge of the Company, no
Person has infringed, misappropriated, violated, diluted or otherwise violated any Owned Intellectual Property or any Intellectual Property exclusively licensed to the Company.   
  (h) Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(h) , to the Knowledge of the Company, there are no Patents of any other Person dominating,
interfering, or potentially dominating or interfering, with the Patents included in the Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property of the Company, or that could be asserted by a Person to exclude or
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         23   

prevent the Company from practicing the methods or other inventions in Patents included in the Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property or that are otherwise necessary to
conduct the business of the Company as currently conducted. To the Knowledge of the Company, no Intellectual Property owned or controlled by the Company has been developed or otherwise obtained using any funding or other resources provided by any
Governmental Body or institution of higher education except as indicated in  Schedule 5.11(h) .      (i) The Company has
delivered to Parent all information, including prior art, that is material to the patentability, inventorship or ownership of any of the Patents. Except as set forth on Schedule 5.11(i), to the Knowledge of the Company, there are no published
(whether by physical or electronic publication) Patent applications or issued Patents, articles or other prior art references, or any other prior art or material information, that could reasonably be expected to render invalid or unenforceable or
could prevent the issuance of any Patent listed in  Schedule 5.11(a) . For each of the Patents listed in  Schedules 5.11(a)(i)  and  (ii) , each of the Company its attorneys, agents and relevant employees and representatives (and, to
the Knowledge of the Company, the owners and inventors, and their attorneys, agents and relevant employees and representatives, of the Patents listed in  Schedule 5.11(a)  that are otherwise controlled by the Company) has met its duty of candor
as required under 37 C.F.R. 1.56 and complied with analogous Law outside the United States requiring disclosure of references.  [*]       (j) Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(j) , each inventor named on the Patents listed in  Schedule 5.11(a)  that were filed or are owned by the Company (and, to the Knowledge of the Company,
each inventor named on the Patents listed in  Schedule 5.11(a)  that are otherwise controlled by the Company), alone or together with any joint owners, has executed an agreement actually assigning his or her entire right, title and interest in
and to such Patent, and the inventions embodied and claimed therein, to the Company (or to the Person who has entered into a written agreement to license such Patent to the Company as reflected on  Schedule 5.11(a) ), alone or together with any
joint owners as reflected in  Schedule 5.11(a) , except as indicated in  Schedule 5.11(a) . No such inventor has any contractual or other obligation that would preclude or render void or voidable any such assignment or otherwise conflict
with the obligations of such inventor to the Company or the appropriate owners under such agreement with the Company or such appropriate owners, as the case may be.      (k) Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(k) , no Owned Intellectual Property or Exclusively Licensed Intellectual Property is subject to any transfer, assignment, site, equipment or other
operational limitations, whether pursuant to Contract or any order, judgment, writ, injunction or decree of any court or other Governmental Body.      (l) Except as disclosed on  Schedule 5.11(l) , all employees, consultants, contractors, officers, service providers and agents who have contributed to or participated in the creation or development
of any Owned Intellectual Property on behalf of the Company or any predecessor in interest thereto has executed an assignment or an agreement to assign in favor of the Company (or such predecessor in interest, as applicable) of all right, title and
interest in such Intellectual Property. Except as disclosed on Schedule 5.11(l), no current or former employees, consultants, contractors, officers, service providers and agents of the Company have any right, license, claim or interest whatsoever in
or with respect to any Owned Intellectual Property that is necessary to conduct the business of the Company as currently conducted.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         24   

(m) Except as disclosed in  Schedule 5.11(m) , the Company has entered into agreements
with employees, consultants, contractors, officers, service providers and agents sufficient to protect the confidentiality of the Trade Secrets of the Company. There is no breach or violation by the Company under, and, to the Knowledge of the
Company, no breach or violation by any other party to, any such agreement. To the Knowledge of the Company, there has been no unauthorized disclosure or use of Material Trade Secrets of the Company. The Company has taken reasonable steps to prevent
the unauthorized disclosure or use of its Trade Secrets.      (n) Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.11(n) , the Company does
not manufacture and/or distribute, and has never manufactured and/or distributed, any products, nor have any products been manufactured or distributed on the Company s behalf. Each of the Products at all times has been, developed, tested,
manufactured and stored, as applicable, in compliance with all applicable Laws. The Company has not been subject to any FDA investigation or inquiry with respect to its preclinical, clinical or manufacturing activities for any of its Products. The
Company has full right to manufacture and has manufactured the Products, either through existing manufacturers or any potential future manufacturer. Except as set forth in  Schedule 5.11(n) , with respect to each Product, the Company has
obtained full and transferable (to any existing or future manufacturer) rights under (either by license or otherwise) any Intellectual Property owned or controlled by the manufacturer of such Product or any Third Person providing or having provided
services to the Company with respect to such Product, that covers the manufacture (including formulation) of such Product. The Company has received all necessary technology transfer (including the receipt of process, methodology, documentation,
materials, regulatory filings and the like) and is fully enabled to manufacture the Products, either by itself or through any contract manufacturer.       Section 5.12  Title to Property   .  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.12 , the Company has good and marketable title to each item of equipment, other tangible property and all
Owned Intellectual Property, free and clear of Encumbrances except for Permitted Encumbrances.       Section 5.13  No
Violation, Litigation or Regulatory Action   .  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.13 :      (a) the Company is
not subject to any Court Order;      (b) the assets of the Company and their uses comply in all material respects with all
applicable Law and Court Orders;      (c) the Company has complied in all material respects with all Laws and Court Orders that
are applicable to its assets or business;      (d) the Company has not voluntarily disclosed to any Governmental Body any
violations of Law within the last five years;      (e) there are no Actions or notices of violation pending or, to the Knowledge
of the Company, threatened, against or affecting the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, is there any basis for any of the same, and there are no Actions pending in which the   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         25   

Company is the plaintiff or claimant;      (f) there is no Action pending
or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened that questions the legality, validity or fairness of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement; and      (g) to the Knowledge of the Company, no Law or the interpretation thereof has been adopted or is pending that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect.   
   Section 5.14  Contracts   .  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.14 , the Company is not a party to or bound by:
     (a) any Contract for the purchase, sale or lease of real property;   
  (b) any Contract for the purchase of supplies or raw materials or other goods or services (other than consulting or employment agreements
entered into by the Company in the Company s standard form (provided to Parent prior to the date hereof)) which involved the payment of more than  [*]  in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009, which the Company reasonably
anticipates will involve the payment of more than  [*]  in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 or in any fiscal year which extends beyond December 31, 2010, other than any such Contract terminable by the Company without penalty
on 30 days or less notice;  provided ,  however , that with respect to any such Contract listed or required to be listed on  Schedule 5.14(b) ,  Schedule 5.14(b)  shall indicate whether the amount payable by the Company is
reimbursable by any third party;      (c) any Contract for the sale of goods or services which involved the payment of more than
 [*] in the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 or which involves or the Company reasonably anticipates will involve the payment of more than  [*]  in the fiscal year ending December 31, 2010 or in any fiscal year which extends
beyond December 31, 2010, other than any such Contract terminable by the Company without penalty on 30 days or less notice;      (d) any Contract for the purchase, licensing or development of material Software (other than Contracts pursuant to which the Company licenses Software that is available in consumer retail stores or is
otherwise commercially available subject to  shrink-wrap  or  click-through  license agreements), other than any such Contract terminable by the Company without penalty on 30 days or less notice;   
  (e) any Contract relating to the conduct of clinical trials for which the Company is the sponsor or involving the conduct of clinical
trials for any Product, including any Contract with an investigator, site, contract research organization, or clinical trial support service;      (f) any consignment, distributor, dealer, manufacturers representative, sales agency, advertising representative or advertising or public relations Contract, other than any such Contract terminable by the
Company without penalty on 30 days or less notice;      (g) any partnership, joint venture, franchise or other similar Contract,
or any Contract involving a research or development collaboration or similar arrangement;   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         26   

(h) any Contract or instrument that provides for, or relates to, the incurrence by the
Company of any Indebtedness;      (i) any guarantee of the obligations of customers, suppliers, officers, directors, employees,
Affiliates or others;      (j) any Contract that limits or restricts where the Company or any Affiliate thereof may conduct
business or any Contract containing any covenant or provision prohibiting the Company or any Affiliate thereof from engaging in any line or type of business or otherwise restricting the operations or business of the Company or any Affiliate thereof;
     (k) any Contract that provides for, or relates to, any non-competition or confidentiality arrangement with any Person,
including any current or former officer or employee of the Company other than employment offer letters in the Company s standard form (provided to Parent prior to the date hereof) entered into by the Company in the ordinary course of business;
     (l) any Contract with any Governmental Body;      (m) any Contract containing any  non-solicitation  or  no-hire  provision that restricts the Company or any Affiliate thereof;   
  (n) any Contract with or involving (i) any Stockholder or any Affiliate (other than the Company) of the Company or of any
Stockholder or (ii) any former holder of Shares of the Company or any Affiliate (other than the Company) thereof;      (o)
any Contract relating to the manufacture or supply of any Product;      (p) any Contract that requires or obligates the Company or
any Affiliate thereof to purchase specified minimum amounts of any product or material; or      (q) any Contract not made in the
ordinary course of business, other than any such Contract terminable by the Company without penalty on 30 days or less notice, or any Contract not otherwise set forth above that is material to the Company.   
   Section 5.15  Status of Contracts   .  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.15 , each of the Contracts listed or
required to be listed on  Schedule 5.9(a) ,  Schedule 5.10 ,  Schedule 5.11(c) ,  Schedule 5.14  or  Schedule 5.17(a)  (collectively, the   Company Agreements  ) (a) constitutes a valid and binding
obligation or confers any valid and binding right, enforceable in accordance with its terms, with respect to the Company and, to the Knowledge of the Company, the other parties thereto, subject only to the General Exceptions, (b) is in full
force and effect (except for those Company Agreements which by their terms will expire prior to the Effective Time), and (c) will continue in full force and effect following the Effective Time without breaching the terms thereof or resulting in
the forfeiture or impairment of any rights thereunder and without the consent, approval or act of, or the making of any filing with, any other Person. The Company has fulfilled and performed its obligations required to be performed by it under each
of the Company Agreements in all material respects, and the Company is not in, or alleged to be in, material breach or default under, nor is there or, to the Knowledge of the Company, is there alleged to be any basis for termination of, any of the
Company Agreements and, to the   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         27   

Knowledge of the Company, no other party to any of the Company Agreements has materially breached or defaulted thereunder, and no event has occurred and no condition or state of facts exists
which, with the passage of time or the giving of notice or both, would constitute such a material default or breach by the Company or, to the Knowledge of the Company, by any other such party. The Company is not currently paying liquidated damages
in lieu of performance under any of the Company Agreements or, other than in the ordinary course of business, currently renegotiating any of the Company Agreements. Complete and correct copies of each of the Company Agreements have been delivered to
Parent.       Section 5.16  Insurance   .   Schedule 5.16  sets forth a list and brief description
(including nature of coverage, limits, deductibles, premiums and the loss experience for the most recent five years with respect to each type of coverage) of all policies of insurance maintained, owned or held by the Company on the date hereof. The
Company has complied with each of such insurance policies in all material respects and has not failed to give any notice or present any claim, incident or occurrence thereunder in a due and timely manner. The Company shall keep its current insurance
in full force and effect through the Effective Time and shall not cancel, terminate or amend any such insurance policy without Parent s written consent.       Section 5.17  Employees and Related Agreements; ERISA   .    
  (a)  Schedule 5.17(a)  sets forth the name of each Company Benefit Plan. The Company has delivered to Parent with respect to each
Company Benefit Plan, as applicable, current and complete copies of (i) all written plan documents, related trust Contracts, insurance Contracts and policies and all amendments thereto, (ii) all current summary plan descriptions,
(iii) the Form 5500 annual reports and accompanying schedules and actuarial reports, as filed, for the most recently completed three plan years and (iv) summaries of any Company Benefit Plans for which there is not a written plan document.
     (b) Each Company Benefit Plan that is intended to be a qualified plan within the meaning of Section 401(a) of the Code
is so qualified, and the Company has delivered or caused to be delivered to Parent the most recently received IRS determination, opinion, advisory or notification letter issued with respect to each such plan. No event has occurred and to the
Company s Knowledge no circumstances exist that would adversely affect the tax qualification of such Company Benefit Plan, and such Company Benefit Plan has not been amended since the effective date of its most recent determination, opinion,
advisory or notification in any respect that might adversely affect its qualification, materially increase its cost.      (c) Each
Company Benefit Plan has been in all material respects maintained and operated in conformity with all applicable Law, including the Code, ERISA and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (  HIPAA  ), and in
accordance with the terms of such Company Benefit Plan.      (d) Neither the Company nor any ERISA Affiliate sponsors, has
sponsored, contributes to, has contributed to, or has or had any obligation or liability with respect to (i) a plan subject to Title IV of ERISA, including any defined benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(35) of ERISA), a multiemployer
plan (as defined in Section 3(37) of ERISA) or a multiple employer plan subject to Section 4063 or 4064 of ERISA, (ii) a multiple employer welfare benefit arrangement (as defined in Section 3(40)(A) of ERISA) or (iii) a plan
subject to Section 302 of   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         28   

ERISA or Section 412 of the Code.      (e) With respect to managers,
officers, employees, non-employee members of the board of directors or consultants of the Company, none of the Company Benefit Plans provides any continuation of welfare benefits (including medical and life insurance benefits) after such person
terminates employment or services due to retirement or other reason, except for the coverage continuation requirements of Part 6 of Title I of ERISA or similar state Law.      (f) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.17(f) , the Company has no liability of any kind whatsoever, whether direct, indirect, contingent or otherwise, (i) on account of any violation of the
health care requirements of Part 6 or 7 of Title I of ERISA or Section 4980B or 4980D of the Code or (ii) under Section 502(i) or 502(l) of ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code.   
  (g) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.17(g) , for each current or former officer, manager, employee or consultant of the Company,
all contributions (including all employer contributions and employee salary reduction contributions) required to have been made under any Company Benefit Plan, or by Law, to any funds or trusts established thereunder or in connection therewith have
been made by the Company or its ERISA Affiliates by the due date thereof (including any valid extension), and all contributions required to be made for any period ending at or before the Effective Time have been, or will be, paid by the Company
prior to the Effective Time. All premiums, fees and administrative expenses required to be paid under the Company Benefit Plans for the period at or before the Effective Time have been, or will be, paid by the Company prior to the Effective Time.
     (h) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.17(h) , to the Company s Knowledge, there has been no violation of ERISA or
other applicable Law with respect to the filing of applicable reports, documents or notices regarding the Company Benefit Plans with the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of the Treasury or any other agency or the furnishing of such documents to the
participants or beneficiaries of the Company Benefit Plans. All such reports, documents and notices were true, complete and correct in all material respects when filed or distributed.   
  (i) No Actions have been filed or are currently pending with respect to the operation of the Company Benefit Plans (other than routine
claims for benefits) which have been asserted or instituted against the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates, the assets of any of the trusts under such plans or the plan sponsor, plan administrator or any fiduciary of the Company Benefit Plans,
nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, is there any such threatened litigation. There are no pending audits, investigations or inquiries by any Governmental Body with respect to the Company Benefit Plans.   
  (j) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.17(j) , the Company has not entered into any Contract that has not expired or been terminated
with or for the benefit of any current or former officer, manager, employee or consultant of the Company, and no current or former officer, manager, employee or consultant of the Company owns, or has any right granted by the Company to acquire, any
interest in the Company.      (k) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.17(k) , no Company Benefit Plan or Contract described in
Section 5.17(j) provides for any bonus, retirement, severance, retention, job security or similar benefit or any change of control, accelerated or enhanced payment or benefit as   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         29   

a result of the transaction contemplated by this Agreement, either alone or together with any other event (including, without limitation, the subsequent termination of employee or other service
provider status), nor do such transactions or this Agreement create any liabilities or trigger any expenses under any Company Benefit Plan or Contract described in Section 5.17(j).   
  (l) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.17(l) , there is no agreement, plan, arrangement or Contract to which the Company or any
Affiliated Person and any current or former employee or other service provider are parties that considered either individually or collectively with any other such agreements, plans, arrangements or Contracts will, as a direct or indirect result of
the transactions contemplated by this Agreement (whether alone or upon the occurrence of any additional or subsequent event, including (without limitation) termination of employee or other service provider status), give rise to an amount that could
reasonably be expected to constitute a   parachute payment  to a  disqualified individual,  as those terms are defined in Section 280G of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.  Schedule 5.17(l)  also lists
each person who the Company reasonably believes to be such a  disqualified individual.       (m) For each officer,
manager, employee or consultant of the Company,  Schedule 5.17(l)  sets forth as of the date hereof the name, position, date of hire, current annual salary, hourly rate of pay, on-target commission or target bonus (if and as applicable),
service credited for purposes of vesting and eligibility under any Company Benefit Plan, current status as either active or on leave and, if on leave, the type and date of such leave and the date on which such person is expected to return to active
service.      (n) No condition exists that would prevent the Company from amending or terminating any Company Benefit Plan without
material cost.      (o) Each Company Benefit Plan that is subject to Section 409A of the Code (i) has been operated and
administered in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code prior to January 1, 2009 and (ii) has been documented, operated and administered in full compliance with Section 409A of the Code on or after January 1,
2009.      (p) The Company has complied with all Department of Homeland Security, Department of Labor and State Department
regulations governing the employment of foreign national workers. The Company has also complied with all Laws related to H-1B workers, including the payment of wages and the maintenance of public access files related to the filing of all ETA-9035
Labor Condition Applications. The Company has delivered to Parent I-9 files for all current employees of the Company and for all former employees of the Company with respect to whom I-9 record retention requirements apply. The Company has complied
with required I-9 laws and regulations at the time it hired all current and former employees and has not knowingly hired or continued to employ unauthorized workers. The Company has not used the services of any person through a staffing agency,
Contract or subcontract knowing that the person was an unauthorized worker.      (q) Except as contemplated by this Agreement, the
Company does not have any obligation to indemnify, hold harmless or provide any tax gross-up payment to, any individual with respect to any penalty tax, interest payments or other liability such individual may incur under Section 409A of the
Code.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         30   

Section 5.18  Environmental Matters   .    
  (a) Neither the Company, nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any previous owner, occupant or user of any Leased Real Property or Former
Real Property or any other Person has engaged in or permitted any activity at or upon, or any use or occupancy of, any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property in any way involving the handling, manufacture, treatment, storage, use, generation,
Release or disposal (whether legal or illegal, accidental or intentional, integral or incidental to the operations at the affected site) of any Hazardous Materials on, under, in or about any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property, or
transported any Hazardous Materials to, from or across any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property, except as: (i) in compliance with Environmental Laws and (ii) such that the Company will not incur Environmental Damages. No Hazardous
Materials currently are produced, incorporated in any construction on, deposited, stored or otherwise located on, under, in or about any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property except as: (x) used in the ordinary course of business of the
Company; (y) in compliance with Environmental Laws; and (z) such that the Company will not incur Environmental Damages.      (b) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.18(b) :      (i) the
Company has complied with all applicable Environmental Laws;      (ii) the Company has not received any written
notice or other written communication concerning (A) any violation or alleged or probable violation of any Environmental Law or (B) alleged liability for Environmental Damages in connection with any Leased Real Property or Former Real
Property or Hazardous Materials transported to, from or across any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property;   
  (iii) the Company has delivered to Parent (A) information that is accurate and complete in all material respects
pertaining to the operational history of the Company and its facilities, (B) a complete copy of all test results for any samples taken of any environmental media (i.e., water, soil, soil gas, air, surface water or ground water) at or around any
part of its facilities, and (C) information that is accurate and complete in all material respects pertaining to any Hazardous Materials handled or generated by, disposed of, or Released from the Company or its facilities;   
  (iv) (A) the Company has obtained all Governmental Permits necessary under Environmental Law for the operation of the
Company s business and the use and operation of any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property, and such Governmental Permits are listed on  Schedule 5.18(b) ; (B) all such Governmental Permits are in full force and effect;
(C) the Company has been in compliance in all material respects with all terms and conditions of such Governmental Permits; and (D) there is no Action pending, alleged or threatened against the Company to revoke or modify such Governmental
Permits;      (v) to the Knowledge of the Company, there has been no Release of any Hazardous Materials at any
Leased Real Property, Former Real Property, properties previously owned, leased or operated by any predecessor of the Company or at any   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         31   

third-party location to which the Company or its predecessors transported or arranged for the disposal or treatment of Hazardous Materials;   
  (vi) the Company has delivered to Parent correct and complete copies of all environment, health and safety-related
permits, licenses, registrations, inspection reports, government submittals, audits, studies, reports, analyses and results of investigations that have been performed with respect to Leased Real Property or Former Real Property;   
  (vii) to the Knowledge of the Company, there is not now, nor has there ever been, on, in or under any Leased Real Property
or Former Real Property (A) any treatment, recycling, storage or disposal of any Hazardous Materials that require or required a Governmental Permit, (B) any underground storage tanks, above-ground storage tanks, dikes, ponds, lagoons,
impoundments or landfill or waste piles, (C) any asbestos-containing or asbestos-related materials, (D) any polychlorinated biphenyls, or (E) any radioactive substances;   
  (viii) none of the products the Company manufactures, distributes or sells, or has manufactured, distributed or sold,
contains asbestos or asbestos-containing material and none of the products manufactured, distributed or sold by any Company predecessor, former businesses or by any entities whose liabilities the Company has assumed by Contract, operation of law or
otherwise contained asbestos or asbestos-containing material; and      (ix) the Company has not entered into any
Contracts pursuant to which it has assumed any obligations or liabilities of any third party under or pursuant to any Environmental Law or agreed to indemnify, defend or hold harmless any third party from any liabilities, costs or claims arising
under or pursuant to any Environmental Law.       Section 5.19  Employee Relations   .    
  (a) The Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement or other labor agreement relating to the business. There is no
pending or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened labor dispute, grievance, strike or work stoppage by any employees of the Company. There has not been any union organizing or election activities involving any of the Company s employees,
and, to the Knowledge of the Company, none is threatened.      (b) The Company is in compliance in all material respects with all
Laws and orders relating to the employment of labor, including all Laws and orders relating to wages, hours, discrimination, sexual harassment, civil rights, immigration, safety and health, workers  compensation, employee classification and the
collection and payment of withholding taxes, including income, FICA and similar taxes.       Section 5.20
 Suppliers   .  Set forth on  Schedule 5.20  hereto are: (a) a list of names and addresses of all suppliers of the Company (the   Company Suppliers  ) and the percentage of purchases by the Company which each
Company Supplier represented during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and the five months ended November 30, 2010 and (b)  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         32   

copies of the forms of purchase order for supplies and equipment and sales Contracts for finished goods used by the Company. Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.20 , there exists no actual or
threatened in writing, or to the Knowledge of the Company otherwise threatened, termination, cancellation or limitation of, or any adverse change in, the business relationship of the Company with any Company Supplier.  Schedule 5.20  sets forth
a list of all preferred vendor arrangements with any Company Supplier.       Section 5.21  Availability of
Assets   .  Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.21 , the assets owned, leased or licensed by or licensed to the Company constitute all the assets and properties used in, or reasonably necessary for, the operation of the business of
the Company in substantially the same manner in which it currently is being conducted (including all books, records, computers and computer programs and data processing systems), and all such tangible assets are in good condition and repair (subject
to normal wear and tear). The Company has unencumbered access to all such assets owned or leased by or licensed to the Company.   
   Section 5.22  Inventories   .  The Company has no inventories (as that term is used for purposes of U.S. GAAP).
      Section 5.23  Product Liabilities   .    
  (a) The Company has not received any written claim and to the Knowledge of the Company any other claim, and, to the Knowledge of the
Company, there are no incidents that could reasonably be expected to give rise to a claim for or based upon breach of product warranty (other than warranty service and repair claims in the ordinary course of business not material in amount or
significance), strict liability in tort, negligent manufacture of product, negligent provision of services or any product complaint, adverse event report or any other similar allegation of liability, including or resulting in product recalls and
including or resulting in bodily injury or property damage, arising from the materials, design, testing, manufacture, packaging, labeling (including instructions for use) or sale of its products or from the provision of services, and to the
Knowledge of the Company, there is no basis for any such claim. Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.23 , the Company does not sell and has never sold any products.      (b) The Company has not conducted any product recalls, market withdrawals, product corrections or product removals.       Section 5.24  Transactions with Affiliates   .       (a) For
purposes of this Agreement, the term   Affiliated Person   means (i) any holder of capital stock of the Company, (ii) any director, officer or senior executive of the Company, (iii) any Person that directly or
indirectly Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with the Company or (iv) any member of the immediate family of any of such natural Persons described in the preceding clauses (i), (ii) or (iii) and any Person that
directly or indirectly Controls, is Controlled by, or is under common Control with any such immediate family member.      (b)
Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.24(b) , since its formation, the Company has not, in the ordinary course of business or otherwise, (i) purchased, leased or otherwise acquired any property or assets or obtained any services from,
(ii) sold, leased or otherwise   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         33   

disposed of any property or assets or provided any services to (except with respect to remuneration for services rendered in the ordinary course of business as director, officer or employee of
the Company), (iii) entered into or modified in any manner any Contract with or (iv) borrowed any money from, or made or forgiven any loan or other advance (other than expenses or similar advances made in the ordinary course of business)
to, any Affiliated Person.      (c) Except as set forth on  Schedule 5.24(c) , (i) the Contracts of the Company do not
include any obligation or commitment between the Company and any Affiliated Person, (ii) the assets of the Company do not include any receivable or other obligation or commitment from any Affiliated Person to the Company except for those
obligations or commitments incurred in the ordinary course of business and (iii) the liabilities of the Company do not include any payable or other obligation or commitment from the Company to any Affiliated Person except for such obligations
or commitments incurred in the ordinary course of business.      (d) To the Knowledge of the Company and except as set forth on
 Schedule 5.24(d) , no Affiliated Person of the Company is a party to any Contract with any supplier of the Company that affects in any material respect the business of the Company.   
   Section 5.25  Budgets   .   Schedule 5.25  sets forth as of the date hereof the budgets of capital, payroll and
other expenditures of the Company prepared in the ordinary course of business for the fiscal quarter ending December 31, 2010.       Section 5.26  Healthcare Data Privacy and Security   .       (a)
The Company (i) has operated its business in compliance with all Laws and contractual requirements relating to medical records and medical information privacy that regulate or limit the maintenance, use, disclosure or transmission of medical
records, patient information or other personal information made available to or collected by the Company in connection with the operation of its business (the   Healthcare Data Requirements  ), (ii) has implemented all
confidentiality, security and other protective measures required by the Healthcare Data Requirements and, (iii) if and to the extent applicable to the Company, has implemented or will have implemented, upon effectiveness, all such measures
required by the Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable Health Information at 45 C.F.R. Parts 160 and 164 (subparts A and E) (the   Privacy Rule  ), the Security Standards at 45 C.F.R. Parts 160 and 164 (subparts A and C)
(the   Security Rule  ), the Standards for Electronic Transactions and Code Sets at 45 C.F.R. Parts 160 and 162 promulgated under HIPAA, the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act (Pub. L. No. 111-5)
(  HITECH  ) and HITECH implementing regulations. The Company is and has at all times been in compliance with the privacy and security requirements of HIPAA and HITECH.   
  (b) All Personal Data and all Protected Health Information, if any, that the Company has shared, or will share, with Parent, or that the
Surviving Corporation will hold at or following the Effective Time, has been collected, maintained and used at all times by the Company in compliance with (i) the requirements of all Laws, (ii) the requirements of Contracts to which the
Company is a party and (iii) policies and practices relating to Personal Data that the Company has communicated to Persons about whom the Personal Data relates (  Data Subjects  ).   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         34   

Section 5.27  Unlawful Payments; etc .    
  (a) Neither the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any manager, director, officer, agent, employee or other person acting on
behalf of or in the name of the Company has: (i) offered or used any corporate funds for any unlawful contribution, gift, entertainment or other unlawful expense relating to any political campaign or activity; (ii) offered or made a direct
or indirect unlawful payment or conveyance of something of value to any foreign or domestic government official, employee or political candidate or established or maintained any unlawful or unrecorded funds; (iii) violated any provision of the
U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977 (the   FCPA  ) or any Law equivalent to the FCPA or concerning such unlawful payments or gifts in any jurisdiction; (iv) offered or given any unlawful bribe, rebate, payoff, influence
payment, kickback or other unlawful payment or gift of money or anything of value to any foreign or domestic government official or employee of any Governmental Body; (v) received any unlawful discounts or rebates in violation of any Law
relating to antitrust or competition; or (vi) breached or waived any code of ethics or similar foreign, federal or state policy regarding business conduct.      (b) Neither the Company nor, to the Knowledge of the Company, any manager, director, officer, agent, distributor, employee or other person acting on behalf of or in the name of the Company: (i) is,
or is owned or Controlled by, a Person subject to the sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury (the   OFAC  ) or included on any list of restricted entities, persons or
organizations published by the government of the United States of America including the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons, Denied Persons List, Entities List, Debarred Parties List, Excluded Parties List and Terrorism
Exclusion List, or any similar Law (any such Person, a   Restricted Party  ) or (ii) has engaged in any unlicensed transaction with any Restricted Party or has otherwise been in breach of any such sanctions, export controls,
restrictions or any similar foreign, federal or state Law.       Section 5.28  No Finder   .  Neither Company
nor any Person acting on its behalf has paid or become obligated to pay any fee or commission to any broker, finder or intermediary for or on account of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.   
   Section 5.29  Necessary Stockholder Approval   .  The affirmative vote of at least (a) 66-2/3% of the issued
and outstanding shares of the Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock, voting together as a single class and on an as-converted to Company Common Stock basis; and (b) a majority of the issued and
outstanding shares of Company Common Stock and Company Preferred Stock (voting on an as-converted to Company Common Stock basis), voting together as a single class, is required to adopt this Agreement under applicable Law, the Company Charter, the
Company Bylaws and the Company Voting Agreement (the   Necessary Stockholder Approval  ). No other vote of the Stockholders is required by applicable Law, the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws, the Company Voting Agreement or
otherwise in order for the Company to consummate the Merger and the transactions contemplated by this Agreement. None of the holders of Shares has purported to vote under Section 251 of the DGCL (or execute or deliver a written consent under
Section 228 of the DGCL) for the adoption of this Agreement prior to both the approval of this Agreement   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         35   

and the declaration of its advisability by the Company s board of directors and the execution and delivery of this Agreement.   
   Section 5.30  Disclosure   .  None of the representations and warranties of the Company contained herein, none of
the information contained in the Schedules referred to in this Article V and none of the certificates furnished to Parent or any of its representatives by the Company or its representatives pursuant to the terms of this Agreement is false or
misleading in any material respect or omits to state a fact herein or therein necessary to make the statements herein or therein not misleading in any material respect in light of the circumstances under which they were made.   
   ARTICLE VI    
   MATTERS WITH RESPECT TO THE REPRESENTATIVE        Section 6.1  Appointment   .       (a) In order to efficiently
represent the interests of the Participants with respect to all matters arising under this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement after the Effective Time, by virtue of the adoption of this Agreement by the Necessary Stockholder Approval (and without any
individual act of any Participant), each Participant appoints and shall be deemed to have appointed the Representative as agent for such Participant and as such Participant s true and lawful attorney-in-fact effective upon the Effective Time,
with full power and authority in such Participant s name and on such Participant s behalf to (x) act according to the terms of this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement in the absolute discretion of the Representative,
(y) represent such Participant and such Participant s successors with respect to all matters arising under this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement and (z) in general to do all things and to perform all acts, including executing and
delivering any agreements, certificates, receipts, instructions, notices or instruments contemplated by or deemed advisable in connection with this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement, and (ii) the Representative agrees to act as the
representative, agent and attorney-in-fact of each Participant. Each Participant agrees, by virtue of the adoption of this Agreement (and without any individual act of such Participant), that all actions taken by the Representative from and after
the Effective Time under this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement shall be binding upon such Participant and such Participant s successors as if expressly confirmed and ratified in writing by such Participant.   
  (b) The power of attorney and all authority conferred under Section 6.1(a) shall be irrevocable and be deemed coupled with an
interest and shall not be terminated by any act of any Participant, by operation of law, by such Participant s death or disability or any other event. Without limiting the foregoing, the power of attorney shall be to ensure the performance of a
special obligation and, accordingly, each Participant, by virtue of the adoption of this Agreement by the Necessary Stockholder Approval (and without any individual act of such Participant), renounces such Participant s right to renounce this
power of attorney unilaterally any time before the termination of all obligations of the Participants hereunder or under the Escrow Agreement.      (c) By virtue of the adoption of this Agreement by the Necessary Stockholder Approval (and without any individual act of any Participant), each Participant waives any and all defenses which may be
available to contest, negate or disaffirm the action of the Representative taken in good faith under this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         36   

(d) The Representative agrees to be bound by all obligations of the Representative under
this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement and shall take any and all actions from and after the Effective Time which are necessary or appropriate under this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement for and on behalf of the Participants, including defending
all indemnity claims pursuant to Section 12.1 (each, an   Indemnity Claim  ), consenting to, compromising or settling all Indemnity Claims, conducting negotiations with Parent and the Surviving Corporation and their
representatives regarding Indemnity Claims, dealing with Parent, the Surviving Corporation and their representatives under this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement with respect to all matters arising hereunder or thereunder, taking any and all other
actions of the Representative specified in or contemplated by this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement and engaging counsel and accountants in connection with the foregoing matters. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, by virtue of the
adoption of this Agreement (and without any individual act of any Participant), each Participant grants the Representative full power and authority to interpret all the terms and provisions of this Agreement and the Escrow Agreement and to consent
to any amendment hereof or thereof on behalf of such Participant and its or his successors.       Section 6.2
 Indemnification of Representative; Expenses   .       (a) The Representative shall not be liable to the Participants
in connection with the performance by the Representative of the Representative s duties pursuant to this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement, except for the Representative s own willful misconduct or gross negligence. By virtue of the
adoption of this Agreement by the Necessary Stockholder Approval (and without any individual act of any Participant), each Participant agrees that the Representative shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Participants severally but not
jointly based on the Participants  respective Escrow Percentages, from all Losses and Expenses that may be incurred by the Representative as a result of the Representative s performance of the Representative s duties under this
Agreement or the Escrow Agreement;  provided ,  however , that the Representative shall not be entitled to payment of or indemnification for Losses and Expenses that result from any action taken or omitted by the Representative as a result
of the Representative s willful misconduct or gross negligence.      (b) With respect to the relationship between the
Representative and the Participants, the Representative may engage attorneys, accountants and other professionals and experts. The Representative may in good faith rely conclusively upon information, reports, statements and opinions prepared or
presented by such professionals, and any action taken by the Representative based on such reliance shall be deemed conclusively to have been taken in good faith and in the exercise of reasonable judgment. The Participants (in accordance with their
respective Escrow Percentages) shall indemnify the Representative and hold the Representative harmless against any expense incurred by the Representative and arising out of or in connection with the acceptance or administration of the
Representative s duties hereunder, including the reasonable fees and expenses of any legal counsel retained by the Representative. For the avoidance of doubt it is hereby clarified that neither Parent nor the Surviving Corporation nor any other
Affiliate of Parent shall be responsible for any fees, costs and expenses incurred by the Representative.       Section 6.3
 Reasonable Reliance   .  In the performance of the Representative s duties under this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement, the Representative shall be entitled to   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         37   

rely upon any document or instrument reasonably believed by the Representative to be genuine, accurate as to content and signed by any Participant, the Company, AcquisitionCo or Parent. The
Representative may assume that any Person purporting to give any notice in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement or the Escrow Agreement has been duly authorized to do so.   
   Section 6.4  Replacement of Representative; Termination   .    
  (a) Prior to the Effective Time, the Representative may resign at any time by giving 15 days  prior written notice to Parent and the
Company;  provided ,  however , that such resignation shall not be effective unless and until a successor Representative has been appointed and accepts such position and the terms hereof and of the Escrow Agreement. In such event, the
Company shall appoint a successor Representative reasonably acceptable to Parent. Prior to the Effective Time, if the Representative becomes bankrupt, insolvent or ceases to exist or, in the case of a successor Representative that is a natural
Person, dies or is otherwise unable to perform the Representative s obligations under this Agreement, then the Company shall appoint a successor Representative reasonably acceptable to Parent.   
  (b) After the Effective Time, the Representative may resign at any time by giving 30 days  written notice to Parent and the
Participants;  provided ,  however , that such resignation shall not be effective unless and until a successor Representative has been appointed and accepts such position and the terms hereof and of the Escrow Agreement. In such event, the
Participants holding, in the aggregate, greater than 50% of the Escrow Percentages, shall appoint a successor Representative reasonably acceptable to Parent;  provided ,  however , that in the event such Participants shall fail to appoint
a successor Representative within 30 days of the Representative s written notice of resignation to the Participants, the Representative shall appoint a successor Representative reasonably acceptable to Parent. After the Effective Time, if the
Representative becomes bankrupt, insolvent or ceases to exist or, in the case of a successor Representative that is a natural Person, dies or is otherwise unable to perform the Representative s obligations under this Agreement, then the
Participants holding, in the aggregate, greater than 50% of the Escrow Percentages, shall appoint a successor Representative reasonably acceptable to Parent.       ARTICLE VII        REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF PARENT AND ACQUISITIONCO
      As an inducement to the Company to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the transactions contemplated hereby,
Parent and AcquisitionCo hereby represent and warrant to the Company as follows:       Section 7.1  Organization;
Capitalization of AcquisitionCo   .  Parent is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware. AcquisitionCo is a corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good
standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware. AcquisitionCo was organized solely for the purpose of engaging in the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and has not engaged in any business since it was incorporated which is not in
connection with this Agreement. The authorized capital of AcquisitionCo consists of 100 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which 100 shares have been issued and are outstanding and none are held as treasury
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         38   

shares. All of the outstanding shares of capital stock of AcquisitionCo are validly issued, fully paid and nonassessable and owned of record and beneficially by Parent.   
   Section 7.2  Authority; Conflicts   .       (a) Parent has all requisite corporate power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder. The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by
Parent have been duly authorized and do not require any further authorization or consent of Parent or its stockholders. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Parent and (assuming the valid authorization, execution and
delivery of this Agreement by each of the Company and the Representative) is a legal, valid and binding agreement of Parent enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject only to the General Exceptions.   
  (b) AcquisitionCo has all requisite power and authority to execute and deliver this Agreement and to perform its obligations hereunder.
The execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by AcquisitionCo have been duly authorized and, except for the adoption of this Agreement by Parent in accordance with Section 8.2 and the filing of the certificate of merger as
contemplated by Section 4.2(b), no other corporate proceedings on the part of AcquisitionCo are necessary to authorize this Agreement or any of the transactions contemplated hereby. This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and
delivered by AcquisitionCo and (assuming the valid authorization, execution and delivery of this Agreement by each of the Company and the Representative) is a legal, valid and binding obligation of AcquisitionCo enforceable in accordance with its
terms, subject only to the General Exceptions.      (c) Neither the execution and delivery by Parent or AcquisitionCo of this
Agreement nor the consummation by Parent or AcquisitionCo of any of the transactions contemplated hereby nor compliance with or fulfillment of the terms, conditions and provisions hereof by Parent or AcquisitionCo will:   
  (i) conflict with, result in a breach of the terms, conditions or provisions of, or constitute a default, an event of
default or an event creating rights of acceleration, termination or cancellation or a loss of rights under, or result in the creation or imposition of any Encumbrance upon any of Parent s or AcquisitionCo s assets, under (A) the
certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Parent or the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of AcquisitionCo, (B) any material note, instrument, Contract, mortgage, lease, license, franchise, permit or other authorization, right, restriction
or obligation to which either Parent or AcquisitionCo is a party or any of their respective assets or business is subject or by which either Parent or AcquisitionCo is bound, (C) any Court Order to which either Parent or AcquisitionCo is a
party or by which any of their respective assets or business is subject or by which either Parent or AcquisitionCo is bound or (D) any Law affecting either Parent or AcquisitionCo or their respective assets or business; or   
  (ii) subject to the accuracy of the Company s representations and warranties set forth in Section 5.4, and given
Company s confirmation that it is its own  ultimate parent entity  and that its financial statements will, at closing, result in a failure to meet the  size-of-person  test under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         39   

Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (  HSR  ) such that no HSR filing is required in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, require the approval,
consent, authorization or act of, or the making by Parent or AcquisitionCo of any declaration, filing or registration with, any Person, except for the filing of the certificate of merger as contemplated by Section 4.2(b) with the Secretary of
State of the State of Delaware.       Section 7.3  Litigation   .  There are no Actions pending or, to
Parent s knowledge, threatened against Parent or to which Parent is a party or by which Parent or any of its assets or properties is bound that relate to this Agreement or any action taken or to be taken by Parent in connection herewith or
therewith, in each case which could reasonably be expected to impair the ability of Parent to consummate any of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.       Section 7.4  No Finder   .  Neither Parent, AcquisitionCo nor any Person acting on behalf of Parent or AcquisitionCo has paid or become obligated to pay any fee or commission to any
broker, finder or intermediary for or on account of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.       Section 7.5
 Funds   .  Parent will have at the Closing the funds necessary to make all of the payments in full in accordance with Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement.       ARTICLE VIII        ACTION PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE TIME    
  The respective parties hereto covenant and agree to take the following actions between the date hereof and the Effective Time:
      Section 8.1  Written Consents   .    
  (a) The Company shall, through the unanimous approval of its board of directors, recommend to its Stockholders the adoption of this
Agreement (the   Board Recommendation  ).      (b) Promptly following the execution and delivery hereof, the
Company shall prepare and distribute to Stockholders holding at least the number and class of Shares sufficient to provide the Necessary Stockholder Approval an irrevocable written consent of Stockholders adopting this Agreement and waiving any
appraisal rights under Section 262 of the DGCL with respect thereto and waiving (pursuant to the Company Voting Agreement) any right to receive advance notice of written consent pursuant to the Company Voting Agreement (such waiver, being
referred to herein as the   Notice Waiver  ), in a form acceptable to Parent (the   Written Consent  ) in accordance with the applicable Law, the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws and the Company Voting Agreement. The
Company agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to cause such Stockholders to execute the Written Consent and deliver such executed Written Consent to the Company within  [*]  following the execution and delivery hereof. Upon obtaining the
Necessary Stockholder Approval, the Company shall so notify Parent and shall provide to Parent a certificate of the Company s secretary certifying as to such vote.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         40   

(c) After the receipt by the Company of Written Consents executed by Stockholders sufficient
to satisfy the Necessary Stockholder Approval, the Surviving Corporation shall, in accordance with applicable Law, including Sections 228 and 262 of the DGCL, the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws and the Company Voting Agreement, promptly send an
information statement (the   Information Statement  ) to each Stockholder that has not theretofore executed the Written Consent notifying him, her or it that (i) action has been taken by less than unanimous written consent of the
Stockholders, (ii) this Agreement was duly adopted and (iii) appraisal rights are available pursuant to Section 262 of the DGCL. Such notice shall be in a form reasonably acceptable to Parent and shall at all relevant times be in
compliance with Section 262 of the DGCL and Law. The Information Statement shall include the Board Recommendation, and the Company s Board of Directors shall not withdraw or adversely modify (or propose to withdraw or adversely modify) the
Board Recommendation unless required to do so by their fiduciary duties under the DGCL.       Section 8.2  Action by
Parent   .  Parent, as the sole stockholder of AcquisitionCo, shall take such actions as may be necessary to adopt this Agreement as required by the certificate of incorporation and bylaws of AcquisitionCo and the DGCL.   
   Section 8.3  Access to Information   .  The Company shall afford to the officers, employees and authorized
representatives of Parent (including independent public accountants, financial advisors, environmental consultants and attorneys) reasonable access during normal business hours to the offices, properties, employees and business and financial records
(including computer files, retrieval programs and similar documentation and such access and information that may be necessary in connection with an environmental audit) of the Company to the extent Parent shall reasonably deem necessary or desirable
and shall furnish to Parent or its authorized representatives such additional information concerning the Company as shall be reasonably requested, including all such information as shall be necessary to enable Parent or its representatives to verify
the accuracy of the representations and warranties contained in this Agreement, to verify that the covenants of the Company contained in this Agreement have been complied with and to determine whether the conditions set forth in Article X have been
satisfied. Parent agrees that such investigation shall be conducted in such a manner as to not interfere unreasonably with the operations of the Company.       Section 8.4  Notice of Certain Events   .  Each party hereto shall promptly notify the other parties hereto of any Action that shall be instituted or, to the Knowledge of such party,
threatened against such party to restrain, prohibit or otherwise challenge the legality, validity or fairness of the Merger or any other transaction contemplated by this Agreement. The Company shall promptly notify Parent in writing of (a) any
Action that shall be instituted or, to the Knowledge of the Company, threatened against the Company that would have been listed on  Schedule 5.13  if such lawsuit, claim, proceeding or investigation had arisen prior to the date hereof and
(b) any other event or matter that becomes known to the Company and would cause any other representation or warranty contained in Article V to be untrue in any material respect or any covenant contained in this Agreement to be breached in any
material respect. Any notification, and any information received by Parent, pursuant to Section 8.3 or this Section 8.4, shall not constitute a waiver by Parent of any rights it may have under this Agreement.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         41   

Section 8.5  Consents of Third Parties; Governmental Approvals   . 
     (a) The Company will act diligently and reasonably to secure, before the Effective Time, the consent, approval or waiver, in
form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent, from any party to any Company Agreement required to be obtained to permit the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, including those set forth on  Schedule 10.5  or
that are otherwise necessary to prevent a Material Adverse Effect, provided that the Company shall not make any agreement or understanding affecting its assets or business as a condition for obtaining any such consents or waivers except with the
prior written consent of Parent. During the period prior to the Closing Date, Parent shall reasonably cooperate with requests by the Company to assist it in obtaining the consents, approvals and waivers contemplated by this Section 8.5(a).
     (b) During the period prior to the Effective Time, the parties hereto shall act diligently and reasonably, and shall
cooperate with each other, to secure any consents and approvals of any Governmental Body required to be obtained by them in order to permit the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement or to otherwise satisfy the conditions
set forth in Sections 10.5 and 11.3;  provided ,  however , that the Company shall not make any agreement or understanding affecting its assets or business as a condition for obtaining any such consents or approvals except with the prior
written consent of Parent.      (c) Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, (i) neither the Company nor
Parent shall be obligated to contest any action or decision taken by any Governmental Body challenging the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement and (ii) in no event shall Parent or the Company be required to
(A) sell or otherwise dispose of, hold separate or agree to sell or dispose of, any assets, categories of assets or businesses of the Company or Parent or any Affiliate of Parent or (B) terminate existing relationships, contractual rights
or obligations to avoid, prevent or terminate any action by any Governmental Body which would challenge the consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.       Section 8.6  Conduct of Business Prior to the Effective Time   .       (a) Except as expressly contemplated by this Agreement, during the Pre-Closing Period the Company shall operate and carry on its business only in the ordinary course consistent with past business
practices and substantially as currently operated as of the date hereof. Consistent with the foregoing, the Company shall use commercially reasonable efforts consistent with past practice to keep and maintain its assets and properties in good
operating condition and repair (subject to normal wear and tear) and to preserve, maintain the value of, renew, extend and keep in full force and effect all Intellectual Property of the Company, and to maintain its business organization intact and
to preserve the goodwill of the material Company Suppliers, contractors, licensors, employees, customers, distributors and others having business relations with the Company (except, in each case, with the express prior written approval of Parent).
     (b) Except as expressly required by this Agreement or with the express prior written approval of Parent, during the
Pre-Closing Period the Company shall not:   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         42   

(i) (A) declare, set aside or pay any dividends on, or make any other
actual, constructive or deemed distributions in respect of, any of its capital stock, or otherwise make any payments to its Stockholders in their capacity as such, (B) split, combine or reclassify any of its capital stock or issue, sell or
authorize the issuance of any other securities in respect of, in lieu of or in substitution for shares of its capital stock (other than any issuances of its securities upon the exercise of any Company Options outstanding on the date hereof or upon
the conversion of any outstanding convertible securities that are convertible into such securities) or (C) purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire any shares of capital stock of the Company or any other securities thereof;   
  (ii) make any change in its line of business;   
  (iii) amend the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws or the Company Voting Agreement;   
  (iv) issue, grant, sell, redeem, repurchase or encumber any Shares or other securities of the Company, other than
repurchases of unvested shares of Company Common Stock from terminating employees or other service providers pursuant to Repurchase Options applicable to those shares; issue, grant, sell, redeem, repurchase or encumber any security, option, warrant,
put, call, subscription or other right of any kind, fixed or contingent, that directly or indirectly calls for the acquisition, issuance, sale, pledge or other disposition of any Shares or other securities of the Company or make any other changes in
the equity capital structure of the Company;      (v) make any capital expenditure or enter into any Contract or
commitment therefor, other than capital expenditures or commitments for capital expenditures in the ordinary course of business consistent with past business practices in an aggregate amount not to exceed  [*] ;   
  (vi) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with the Company s past business practices,
(A) enter into any Contract or other instrument which would have been required to be set forth on  Schedule 5.9(a) ,  Schedule 5.10 ,  Schedule 5.11(c) ,  Schedule 5.14  or  Schedule 5.17(a)  if in effect on the date
hereof, (B) enter into any Contract which requires the giving of notice to, or the consent or approval of, any third party to consummate the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, (C) make any modification to any existing Company
Agreement or to any Governmental Permit, (D) waive, release or assign any rights or claims under, fail to take a required action under, or commit any default under, any Company Agreement, or (E) enter into any contract that grants any
license, covenant not to sue or similar interest or benefit, exclusive or otherwise, in, to or under, or otherwise transfer, assign, or encumber, any Owned Intellectual Property or Licensed Intellectual Property or any right to any Product;
     (vii) enter into any Contract for the purchase, lease (as lessee) or other occupancy of real property or
exercise any option to purchase real property or any option to extend a lease listed on  Schedule 5.9(a) ;   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         43   

(viii) sell, lease (as lessor), transfer or otherwise dispose of, or
mortgage or pledge, or impose or suffer to be imposed any Encumbrance on, any of the assets or properties of the Company, other than inventory and minor amounts of personal property sold or otherwise disposed of for fair value in the ordinary course
of business consistent with past business practices and other than Permitted Encumbrances;      (ix) cancel any
debts owed to or claims held by the Company (including the settlement of any claims or litigation) other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past business practices;   
  (x) create, incur or assume, or agree to create, incur or assume, any Indebtedness or enter into, as lessee, any
capitalized lease obligation (as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 13);      (xi)
accelerate or delay collection of any notes or accounts receivable in advance of or beyond their regular due dates or the dates when the same would have been collected, other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past business
practices;      (xii) delay or accelerate payment of any account payable or other liability beyond or in advance of
its due date, or the date when such liability would have been paid or the dates when the same would have been collected, other than in the ordinary course of business consistent with past business practices;   
  (xiii) allow the levels of raw materials, supplies or work in process of the Company to vary in any material respect from
the levels customarily maintained by the Company unless the maintenance of such levels such materials, supplies or work in process are not necessary for the Company to conduct its business substantially as conducted as of the date hereof;
     (xiv) make, or agree to make, any payment of cash or distribution of assets to the Stockholders;   
  (xv) increase (other than as required by existing Contracts listed on  Schedule 5.17(k) ) the compensation payable to
any officer, manager, employee, non-employee member of the board of directors or consultant of the Company, or amend (other than as required by applicable Law) any existing, or establish any new, profit-sharing, bonus, incentive, deferred
compensation, insurance, pension, retirement, severance, medical, hospital, disability, welfare or other benefit plans or arrangements for officers, managers, employees, non-employee members of the board of directors or consultants of the Company,
enter into any new Contract with any officer, manager, employee non-employee member of the board of directors or consultant of the Company with respect to such compensation or benefits, or grant any new Company Options or issue any new Unvested
Share Awards to any such person;      (xvi) make any change in the accounting principles and practices used by the
Company applied in the preparation of the financial statements contained on  Schedule 5.4 , except as required by U.S. GAAP;   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         44   

(xvii) prepare or file any Tax Return inconsistent with past business
practices or, on any such Tax Return, take any position, make any election, or adopt any method that is inconsistent with positions taken, elections made or methods used in preparing or filing similar Tax Returns in prior periods, except as
otherwise required by Law;      (xviii) fail to (A) prosecute or maintain applications for registration of any
Owned Intellectual Property or any Exclusively Licensed Intellectual Property, or (B) enforce any Exclusively Licensed Intellectual Property, for which the Company has the contractual right to prosecute and maintain applications or to enforce
or any Owned Intellectual Property;      (xix) (A) make any submissions to, or correspond with, the FDA relating to
the conduct or design of clinical trials sponsored or proposed by the Company or involving any Products, including those related to new trials or changes or amendments to protocols or clinical trial documents for an existing trial, and clinical
holds or regarding any other matter, or (B) make any submissions to, or correspond with, any Institutional Review Board regarding a clinical trial sponsored or proposed by the Company or involving any Products, including those related to new
trials or changes or amendments to the protocol or clinical trial documents for an existing trial, and clinical holds, except in each case, if obtaining prior written approval of Parent is not reasonably practicable due to requirements of Law;
     (xx) acquire or agree to acquire (A) by merging or consolidating with, or by purchasing all or a
substantial portion of the assets of, or by purchasing all or a substantial portion of the capital stock of, or by any other manner, any business or any other Person or any division thereof, or (B) any assets, other than in the ordinary course
of business, that are material to the Company;      (xxi) pay, discharge, settle or satisfy any claims, liabilities
or obligations, other than in the ordinary course of business; or      (xxii) enter into any Contract or commitment
to take any action prohibited by this Section 8.6(b).       Section 8.7  Notification by the Company of Certain
Matters .  During the period from the date hereof until the Effective Time, the Company will promptly advise Parent in writing of (a) any Material Adverse Effect  [*]  or any condition, state of facts or circumstances, effect or
change that could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect  [*] , (b) any written notice from any third Person alleging that the consent of such third Person is or may be required in connection with the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and (c) any material default under any Company Agreement or event which, with notice or lapse of time or both, would become such a default.   
   Section 8.8  Company Options .    
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         45   

(a) The Company Options outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall be treated
in accordance with the following provisions based on their respective grant dates and their status as vested or unvested options at that time:      (i) Each Company Option  [*]  that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, other than any Company Option described in Section 8.8(a)(ii), shall be assumed by Parent at the
Effective Time and automatically converted into the right to purchase shares of Parent Common Stock at an adjusted exercise price per share. Accordingly, following such assumption and conversion, (A) each such assumed Company Option shall be
exercisable solely for shares of Parent Common Stock, (B) the number of shares of Parent Common Stock subject to each Company Option assumed by Parent shall be determined by multiplying the number of unvested shares of Company Common Stock
subject to such Company Option immediately prior to the Effective Time by the Option Exchange Ratio and rounding the resulting number down to the nearest whole number of shares of Parent Common Stock, (C) the per share exercise price for the
Parent Common Stock issuable upon exercise of such Company Option shall be determined by dividing the per share exercise price of Company Common Stock subject to such Company Option, as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Time, by the
Option Exchange Ratio, and rounding the resulting exercise price up to the nearest whole cent, (D) any restriction on the exercise of such Company Option shall continue in full force and effect and the term, the vesting schedule for the shares
purchasable thereunder and all the other provisions of such Company Option shall otherwise remain unchanged, and (E) any repurchase right or option applicable to any unvested shares of Parent Common Stock purchased under such Company Option
shall be exercisable by Parent as the Company s successor. It is the intention of the parties that the Company Options so assumed by Parent qualify, to the maximum extent permissible following the Effective Time, as incentive stock options as
defined in Section 422 of the Code to the extent such options qualified as incentive stock options prior to the Effective Time. Consistent with the terms of the Company Stock Plan and the documents governing the outstanding Company Options
under such plan, the Merger shall not terminate any of the Company Options assumed by Parent or accelerate the vesting of the shares of Parent Common Stock subject to those assumed options. The holders of the Company Options so assumed shall not be
entitled to any of the cash consideration payable under Section 2.1 of this Agreement.      (ii) Each Company
Option  [*]  that is outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time shall, to the extent exercisable at that time for vested shares of Company Common Stock, be cancelled at the Effective Time in exchange for a cash amount (the
  Vested Option Payment Amount  ) determined by multiplying (x) the number of vested shares of Company Common Stock subject to such Company Option immediately prior to such cancellation by (y) the dollar amount by which the
maximum consideration otherwise payable per share of Company Common Stock pursuant to Sections 2.1(d)(i) and 2.1(d)(iii) exceeds the exercise price per share of Company Common Stock in effect under such Company Option immediately prior to the
Effective Time, as provided in the immediately following sentence. Accordingly, the holder of each such Company Option shall be entitled to receive (A) within 30 days following the Effective Time, an amount in cash equal to the product of
(1) the Closing Distribution   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         46   

Ratio  multiplied by  (2) the Vested Option Payment Amount attributable to such Company Option, and (B) an interest in any cash released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund, as and when
released to the other Participants therefrom, to the extent provided in the Escrow Agreement. The portion of the Vested Option Payment Amount with respect to each such Company Option that represents the consideration payable pursuant to
Section 2.1(d)(iii) shall be deposited into the Indemnity Escrow Fund and shall be paid to the holder of such vested Company Option at the same time that portion of the consideration (if any) is released from the Indemnity Escrow Fund and
distributions are made to other Participants in accordance with Section 2.1(e). All cash payments made to the holders of the Company Options in cancellation of such options in accordance with this Section 8.8(a)(ii) shall be subject to the
Company s collection of all applicable federal, state and local income and employment withholding taxes.   
  (iii)  [*]       (iv)  [*]       (b) At or before the Effective Time, the Company shall
(1) take all actions that may be necessary or that Parent considers reasonably appropriate (under the Company Stock Plan and otherwise) to effectuate the foregoing provisions of Section 8.8(a) and ensure that the Company Stock Plan and
Company Options can be assumed or cancelled, as the case may be, in accordance with those provisions and (2) cause to be effected, in a manner reasonably satisfactory to Parent, any amendments to the Company Stock Plan necessary to give effect
to the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.8. The Company shall also, prior to the Effective Time, provide each holder of an outstanding Company Option with written notice of the foregoing provisions of this Section 8.8 relating to the
treatment of that option hereunder, and the Company shall provide Parent in advance with a draft of that notice and the opportunity to comment on such notice prior to distribution to the holders of the Company Options.   
  (c) At the Effective Time, Parent shall assume the Company Stock Plan, to the extent it pertains to the Company Options outstanding at
that time that are to be assumed in accordance with Sections 8.8(a)(i) above. In effecting such assumption, the portion of the share reserve under such plan that relates to those outstanding Company Options shall automatically be converted into
shares of Parent Common Stock by multiplying the number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to those outstanding Company Options by the Option Exchange Ratio and rounding up to the next whole share of Parent Common Stock.   
  (d) Parent will use commercially reasonable efforts to file, within 30 Business Days following the Effective Time, a registration
statement on Form S-8 (or any successor to Form S-8) so as to register the Parent Common Stock subject to those assumed Company Options.       Section 8.9  Closing Calculation Certificate .       (a) At least
three Business Days prior to the anticipated Closing Date, the Company shall deliver to Parent a certificate (in a form reasonably satisfactory to Parent) duly executed on behalf of the Company by the Chief Executive Officer or any Senior Vice
President of the Company who is a duly appointed and duly authorized officer of the Company (the   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         47   

Estimated Closing Calculation Certificate  ) setting forth Company s good faith estimates of (i) the Cash Amount, (ii) the Transaction Costs, Payables and the
Unpaid Cost Amount, (iii) the respective amounts payable to each Stockholder pursuant to Sections 2.1(c) and 2.1(d), and the mailing address of each such Stockholder, the number, class and series of the Shares owned by each such Stockholder,
the amounts payable with respect to each such class and series, and the certificate number or numbers corresponding to such Shares), (iv) the respective amounts payable to Option Holders with respect to each Company Option held by them as
described in Section 8.8(a)(ii) or  [*]  and the mailing address of each such Option Holder, (v) the respective numbers of shares of Parent Common Stock issuable to Option Holders with respect to the exercise of each assumed Company
Option held by them as described in Section 8.8(a)(i), the exercise price per share of Parent Common Stock pursuant to each such Company Option and the mailing address of each such Option Holder, (vi) the respective amounts payable to each
record holder of unvested shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.1(g) and the mailing address of each such holder, and (vii) the amount of Closing Indebtedness of the Company (including any pre-payment penalties or change of
control premiums or penalties, make-whole amounts or similar payments required in connection with the Merger or prepayment or early termination of such Closing Indebtedness). The Estimated Closing Calculation Certificate shall be accompanied by
(x) wire transfer instructions for the payments to be made pursuant to Section 4.2, (y) an unaudited balance sheet of the Company as of the last calendar day of the last full month ended immediately prior to the anticipated Closing
Date and the related statements of operations and cash flows for the period from October 1, 2010 through the date of such balance sheet and (z) a spreadsheet showing with reasonable specificity the basis for the calculation of each of the
amounts referred to in clauses (i) through (iv) of this Section 8.9(a).      (b) On the Closing Date, the Company
shall deliver to Parent a certificate (in a form reasonably satisfactory to Parent) duly executed on behalf of the Company by the Chief Executive Officer or any Senior Vice President of the Company who is a duly appointed and duly authorized officer
of the Company (the   Closing Calculation Certificate  ) certifying as to (i) the Cash Amount, (ii) the Transaction Costs, Payables and the Unpaid Cost Amount, (iii) the respective amounts payable to each Stockholder
pursuant to Sections 2.1(c) and 2.1(d), and the mailing address of each such Stockholder, the number, class and series of the Shares owned by each such Stockholder, the amounts payable with respect to each such class and series, and the certificate
number or numbers corresponding to such Shares), (iv) the respective amounts payable to Option Holders with respect to each Company Option held by them as described in Section 8.8(a)(ii) or  [*]  and the mailing address of each such
Option Holder, (v) the respective numbers of shares of Parent Common Stock issuable to Option Holders with respect to the exercise of each assumed Company Option held by them as described in Section 8.8(a)(i), the exercise price per share
of Parent Common Stock pursuant to each such Company Option and the mailing address of each such Option Holder, (vi) the respective amounts payable to each record holder of unvested shares of Company Common Stock pursuant to Section 2.1(g)
and the mailing address of each such holder, and (vii) all Closing Indebtedness of the Company having been repaid in full, including any pre-payment penalties or change of control premiums or penalties, make-whole amounts or similar payments
required in connection with the Merger or prepayment or early termination of such Closing Indebtedness. The Closing Calculation Certificate shall be accompanied by a spreadsheet showing with reasonable specificity the basis for the calculation of
each of the amounts referred to in subclauses (i) through (iv) of this Section 8.9(b) and applicable invoices for the Company for the Transaction Costs and Payables included in the Unpaid Cost
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         48   

Amount (each of which invoices shall specify that such invoice represents the final invoice of such vendor).       Section 8.10  Subsequent Financial Statements .  Prior to the Effective Time, the Company shall deliver to Parent, not later than 10 Business Days after the end of each calendar month and
in the form customarily prepared by the Company, the unaudited financial statements of the Company, including an income statement and balance sheet, for the month then ended and for the period from October 1, 2010 to the end of such month.
      Section 8.11  State Takeover Laws .  If any  fair price,   business combination  or
 control share acquisition  statute or other similar statute or regulation shall become applicable to the transactions contemplated hereby, Parent, AcquisitionCo and the Company and the respective boards of directors of AcquisitionCo and
the Company shall use reasonable efforts to grant such approvals and take such actions as are necessary so that the transactions contemplated hereby may be consummated as promptly as practicable on the terms contemplated hereby and otherwise act to
minimize the effects of any such statute or regulation on the transactions contemplated hereby.       Section 8.12  No
Solicitation .  During the Pre-Closing Period, the Company agrees that:      (a)  [*]    
  (b)  [*]    
  (c)  [*]    
   Section 8.13  280G Approval .  Prior to the Effective Time, the Company shall submit to its Stockholders, for approval
(in a manner and with a disclosure document reasonably satisfactory to Parent) by a vote of such Stockholders as is required pursuant to Section 280G(b)(5)(B) of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder (the   Requisite 280G
Vote  ), any such payments or other benefits that may, separately or in the aggregate, constitute  excess parachute payments  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder), such that,
if the Requisite 280G Vote is received approving such payments and benefits, such payments and benefits shall not be deemed to be  excess parachute payments  under Section 280G of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder.
Prior to such Requisite 280G Vote, the Company shall obtain, from each person whom the Company or Parent believes to be with respect to the Company a  disqualified individual  (within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and the
Treasury Regulations thereunder) and who might otherwise have, receive or have the right or entitlement to receive a parachute payment under Section 280G of the Code, a written waiver (in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Parent)
pursuant to which such person agrees to waive any and all right or entitlement to such parachute payment, to the extent the value thereof exceeds 2.99 times such person s base amount determined in accordance with Section 280G of the Code
and the Treasury Regulations thereunder. Such waivers shall cease to have any force or effect with respect to any item covered thereby to the extent the Requisite 280G Vote for such item is obtained.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         49   

Section 8.14  Drag-Along Rights Under Company Voting Agreement .  The
drag-along right described in Section 4 of the Company Voting Agreement shall be invoked by the requisite parties to Company Voting Agreement, and to the fullest extent permitted by the Company Voting Agreement, the Company shall cause the
Stockholders (as defined thereunder) to vote in favor of the adoption of this Agreement (to the extent any of them have not already done so), even after the Necessary Stockholder Approval is obtained, and waive all appraisal rights pursuant to
Section 262 of the DGCL. The Company shall provide periodic updates to Parent of the status of such efforts, in reasonable detail.       Section 8.15  Release Agreements .  The Company shall use its commercially reasonable efforts to cause any Participant that did not sign a Release Agreement contemporaneously with the
execution of this Agreement to sign a Release Agreement at or prior to the Closing.       Section 8.16  Commercially
Reasonable Efforts .  The Company and Parent shall each use its commercially reasonable efforts, subject to the other provisions of this Agreement, to cause the Effective Time to occur on or before  [*]  2011.   
   ARTICLE IX    
   ADDITIONAL AGREEMENTS        Section 9.1  Tax Matters .       (a)  Liability for Taxes .
Pursuant to Article XII, and solely from the Indemnity Escrow Fund, each Parent Group Member shall be indemnified and held harmless from and against, any and all Losses and Expenses suffered, incurred or sustained by any such Parent Group Member
relating to, in connection with or arising from (i) all Taxes imposed on the Company, or for which the Company may otherwise be liable, as a result of having been a member of a Company Group (including Taxes for which the Company may be liable
pursuant to Treas. Reg.   1.1502-6 or similar provisions of state, local or foreign Law as a result of having been a member of a Company Group) at or prior to the Effective Time, (ii) all Transfer Taxes imposed on the Participants, and
(iii) all Taxes imposed on the Company, or for which the Company may otherwise be liable, for any taxable year or period that ends at or before the Effective Time and, with respect to any Straddle Period, the portion of such Straddle Period
ending at and including the Effective Time (including any obligations to contribute to the payment of a Tax determined on a consolidated, combined or unitary basis with respect to any Company Group);  provided ,  however , that no Parent
Group Member shall be indemnified or held harmless from or against any such Tax liability to the extent that it is reflected as a liability or reserve for Tax liabilities in the Balance Sheet. For purposes of this Section 9.1(a), whenever it is
necessary to determine the liability for income or sales Taxes of the Company for a Straddle Period, the determination of the Taxes of the Company for the portion of the Straddle Period ending on and including, and the portion of the Straddle Period
beginning after, the Effective Time shall be determined by assuming that the Straddle Period consisted of two taxable years or periods, one which ended at the Effective Time and the other which began at the Effective Time and items of income, gain,
deduction, loss or credit of the Company for the Straddle Period shall be allocated between such two taxable years or periods on a  closing of the books basis  by   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         50   

assuming that the books of the Company were closed at the Effective Time and the amount of any other Taxes of the Company shall be allocated between such two taxable years based upon a fraction,
the numerator of which is the number of days in the portion of the year being determined and denominator of which is the number of days in the year. In the event that Parent makes an election under Section 338 of the Code with respect to the
acquisition of the Company hereunder, then the deemed sale by the Company of its assets pursuant to such election shall be treated for purposes of this Section 9.1(a) as having taken place after the Effective Time. Parent shall indemnify and
hold harmless the Participants from any additional Tax recognized by such Participants solely as a result of such election under Section 338 of the Code.      (b)  Assistance and Cooperation . After the Effective Time, the Representative and Parent shall (and shall cause their respective Affiliates to) (i) timely sign and deliver such certificates or
forms as may be reasonably necessary or appropriate to establish an exemption from (or otherwise reduce), or file Tax Returns or other reports with respect to sales, transfer and similar Taxes, (ii) assist the other party in preparing any Tax
Returns which such other party is responsible for preparing and filing in accordance with this Section 9.1, and in connection therewith, provide the other party with any necessary powers of attorney, (iii) cooperate fully in preparing for
and defending any audits of, or disputes with Governmental Bodies regarding, any Tax Returns of the Company, (iv) make available to the other and to any Governmental Body as reasonably requested all information, records, and documents relating
to Taxes of the Company, (v) furnish the other with copies of all correspondence received from any Governmental Body in connection with any Tax audit or information request with respect to any such taxable period and (vi) cooperate in the
preparation, execution and filing of all Tax Returns, questionnaires, applications or other documents regarding any Transfer Taxes.      (c)  Tax Returns . The Company shall file or cause to be filed when due (taking into account all extensions properly obtained) all Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the
Company at or before the Effective Time and the Company shall remit or cause to be remitted any Taxes due in respect of such Tax Returns. Parent shall prepare and file or cause to be prepared and filed when due (taking into account all extensions
properly obtained) all Tax Returns that are required to be filed by or with respect to the Company and the Surviving Corporation after the Effective Time consistent with the positions taken, elections made and methods used by the Company in
preparing Tax Returns filed in prior periods to the extent that (i) such positions, elections and methods were permissible and in compliance with Law, and (ii) an inconsistent position would result in a Loss or Expense for which the Parent
Group Members would be entitled to indemnity pursuant to Section 9.1(a). Parent shall permit the Representative to review each Tax Return that covers a pre-Effective Time Tax period or any Straddle Period. The Representative shall have 30 days
to review and comment on each such Tax Return with respect to items affecting the Tax liabilities of the Company for which Parent Group Members are entitled to be indemnified pursuant to Section 9.1(a) prior to the filing thereof and Parent
shall consider in good faith such comments with respect to each such Tax Return.      (d)  Contest Provisions .   
  (i) Parent shall notify Representative in writing upon receipt by Parent, a Parent Group Member or, after the Effective
Time, the Surviving Corporation of notice of any pending or threatened federal, state, local or foreign Tax audits or   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         51   

assessments which would materially affect the Tax liabilities of the Company for which Parent Group Members are entitled to be indemnified pursuant to Section 9.1(a);  provided ,
 however , that failure to comply with this provision shall not affect a Parent Group Member s right to indemnification hereunder except to the extent such failure materially impairs Representative s ability to contest any such Tax
liabilities on behalf of the Participants.      (ii) Subject to Section 9.1(d)(iii) below, the Representative
shall have the sole right to represent the interests of the Participants in any Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding relating to Tax liabilities for which Parent Group Members are entitled to be indemnified pursuant to Section 9.1(a)
and which relate to taxable periods ending at or before the Effective Time, and to employ counsel of the Representative s choice;  provided ,  however , that the Representative shall have no right to participate in any Tax audit or
administrative or court proceeding unless the Representative shall have first notified Parent in writing (A) of the Representative s intention to do so, (B) of the identity of counsel, if any, chosen by the Representative in
connection therewith, and (C) that the Representative agrees with Parent that the Parent Group Member shall be entitled to indemnification for any Losses and Expenses relating to Taxes that result from such audit or proceeding subject to, and
in accordance with, Article XII;  provided   further , that Parent and its representatives shall be permitted, at Parent s expense, to be present at, and participate in, any such audit or proceeding. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Representative shall not be entitled to settle, either administratively or after the commencement of litigation, any claim for Taxes which could adversely affect the liability for Taxes of any Parent Group Member, the Company or any Affiliate
thereof for any period after the Effective Time to any extent without the prior written consent of Parent.   
  (iii) Parent shall have the sole right to represent the Surviving Corporation s interests in any Tax audit or
administrative or court proceeding relating to Tax liabilities other than those for which the Representative has such right pursuant to Section 9.1(d)(ii) and to employ counsel of Parent s choice at Parent s expense. Parent shall have
the sole right to defend the Surviving Corporation with respect to any issue arising in connection with any Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding to the extent Parent shall have agreed in writing to forego any indemnification under this
Agreement with respect to such issue.      (iv) Nothing herein shall be construed to impose on Parent any
obligation to defend the Company in any Tax audit or administrative or court proceeding, but Parent shall assist the Representative to the extent it is necessary to allow the Representative to initiate a defense of the Company in any Tax audit or
legal proceeding.       Section 9.2  Transferred Employees .    
  (a) With respect to Transferred Employees, in the event that Parent transitions any such Transferred Employees to benefit plans, programs
or arrangements of Parent or any of   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         52   

its Affiliates, then to the extent permitted under each applicable plan, Parent will, or will cause its Affiliates to,  [*]    
  (b) During the period from the date hereof to the Effective Time, to the extent permitted under applicable Law, including Laws relating
to the protection of Personal Data and privacy, (i) the Company shall provide Parent with reasonable access to employee information and (ii) the Company shall provide any assistance and information (including initial employment dates,
termination dates, reemployment dates, hours of service, compensation and Tax withholding history in a form that shall be usable by Parent) as may be reasonably requested by Parent in connection with the foregoing, and such information shall be true
and correct in all material respects.      (c) Neither the Company nor any of its officers, directors, employees, agents or
representatives shall make any communication to any employee or independent contractor regarding any compensation or benefits to be provided after the Effective Time without the advance written approval of Parent.   
  (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the parties expressly acknowledge and agree that nothing in this
Agreement (i) is intended to create an employment related contract between Parent or the Surviving Corporation and any employee nor may any current or former employee rely on this Agreement as the basis for any breach of any employment related
contract claim against Parent or the Surviving Corporation, (ii) shall be deemed or construed to require Parent or the Surviving Corporation to continue to employ any particular employee for any period after the Effective Time, (iii) shall
be deemed or construed to limit the right of Parent or the Surviving Corporation to terminate the employment of any employee at any time after the Effective Time, (iv) shall be construed as establishing or amending any Company Benefit Plan,
Contract or any other employment, compensation or employee benefit plan, program, arrangement or agreement or (v) is intended to create any rights or obligations except between the parties to this Agreement and no current or former employee, no
beneficiary or dependent thereof, and no other person who is not a party to this Agreement, shall be entitled to assert any claims hereunder.      (e) Effective as of the day immediately preceding the Closing Date and contingent on the Closing, the Company shall take all necessary actions to terminate any and all Company Benefit Plans intended to
include a Code Section 401(k) arrangement (collectively, the   Company 401(k) Plan  ). The Company shall provide Parent with evidence that such Company 401(k) Plan has been terminated (effective as of the day immediately
preceding the Closing Date and contingent on the Closing) pursuant to resolutions of the Company s board of directors. The form and substance of such resolutions shall be subject to review and approval of Parent. The Company also shall take
such other actions in furtherance of terminating such other Company Benefit Plans as Parent may reasonably require.   
   Section 9.3  Directors  and Officers  Indemnification and Insurance .    
  (a) Parent shall cause the Surviving Corporation, and the Surviving Corporation hereby agrees, to do the following (and, for the purposes
of clarification, Parent shall be responsible for any financial obligations of the Surviving Corporation under this Section 9.3):   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         53   

(i) for  [*]  after the Effective Time, to the fullest extent permitted
by applicable Law and provided under the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws and the Company Indemnification Agreements (copies of which have been delivered to Parent), in each case as in effect on the date hereof, (A) indemnify and hold
harmless each present (as of the Effective Time) and former officer or director of the Company (each, an   Indemnified Person  ) in respect of acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Effective Time, and (B) advance to each
Indemnified Person all expenses incurred in the defense of any claim, action, proceeding or investigation related to any such acts or omissions within  [*]  Business Days of receipt by Parent or the Surviving Corporation of a request therefor
(together with invoices with respect to such expenses) from such Indemnified Person;  provided ,  however , that such indemnification and advances shall be subject to any limitation imposed from time to time under applicable Law; and
 provided   further , that any Person to whom expenses are advanced provides an undertaking to repay such advances if it is ultimately determined that such Person is not entitled to indemnification; and   
  (ii) for  [*]  after the Effective Time, cause to be maintained in effect provisions in the Surviving
Corporation s certificate of incorporation and bylaws (or in such documents of any successor to the business of the Surviving Corporation) regarding elimination of liability of directors, and indemnification and advancement of expenses to
Indemnified Persons that are no less advantageous to the intended beneficiaries than the corresponding provisions in existence on the date hereof.      (b) Notwithstanding anything else to the contrary set forth herein, the Company may obtain a  [*]  prepaid  tail policy  (the   D O Insurance  ) and incur the cost of
such D O Insurance as a Transaction Cost prior to the Effective Time.      (c) The rights of each Indemnified Person under
this Section 9.3 shall be in addition to (and not in substitution for) any other rights such Indemnified Person may have under the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws and the Company Indemnification Agreements or under applicable Law, in each
case as in effect on the date hereof, and are intended for the benefit of and shall be enforceable by such Indemnified Person and such Indemnified Person s heirs, executors or similar representatives. The rights under this Section 9.3
shall survive consummation of the Merger and shall not be amended in a manner that is adverse to the Indemnified Persons without the consent of the Indemnified Persons affected thereby.   
  (d) In the event that the Surviving Corporation or any of its successors or assigns (i) consolidates with or merges into any other
Person and shall not be the continuing or surviving corporation or entity of such consolidation or merger or (ii) transfers or conveys all or substantially all of its properties and assets to any Person, then, and in each such case, Parent
shall make proper provision so that the successors or assigns of the Surviving Corporation shall succeed to the obligations set forth in Section 9.3.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         54   

ARTICLE X        CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF PARENT AND ACQUISITIONCO       The
obligations of Parent and AcquisitionCo under this Agreement to effect the Merger and otherwise consummate the transactions contemplated hereby shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, at or prior to the Effective Time, of the following
conditions:       Section 10.1  No Breach of Covenants or Representations and Warranties .    
  (a) The Company shall have complied with and performed in all material respects all of its covenants and agreements contained herein or
in any of the Company Ancillary Agreements to be complied with or performed by the Company at or prior to the Closing, in each of the foregoing cases ignoring all  materiality ,  in all material respects ,  Material Adverse
Effect  and other similar qualifications, ignoring any update of or modification to the Disclosure Schedule made or purported to have been made on or after the date hereof and ignoring all knowledge qualifiers (such as  to the Knowledge
of  or similar qualifications).      (b) Each of the representations and warranties of the Company contained or referred to
in this Agreement or in any of the Company Ancillary Agreements shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof and shall be true and correct in all material respects at the Effective Time as though made at and as of
the Effective Time (except to the extent that any such representation or warranty expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case, such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of that date), in
each of the foregoing cases ignoring all  materiality ,  in all material respects ,  Material Adverse Effect  and other similar qualifications, and ignoring any update of or modification to the Disclosure Schedule made
or purported to have been made on or after the date hereof and ignoring all knowledge qualifiers (such as  to the Knowledge of  and similar qualifications).      (c) There shall have been delivered to Parent and AcquisitionCo a certificate confirming the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in clauses (a) and (b) above, dated the Closing Date, signed
on behalf of the Company by the Chief Executive Officer or any Senior Vice President of the Company.       Section 10.2
 No Material Adverse Effect [*] .  Between the Balance Sheet Date and the Effective Time, (a) there shall have been no condition, state of facts or circumstances, effect or change or prospective condition, state of facts or
circumstances, effect or change that, individually or in the aggregate, has had or could reasonably be expected to have a Material Adverse Effect  [*] , and there shall have been delivered to Parent and AcquisitionCo a certificate confirming
the matters in clauses (a) and (b) above, dated the Closing Date, signed on behalf of the Company by the Chief Executive Officer or any Senior Vice President of the Company.   
   Section 10.3  No Restraint or Litigation .  No Action by a Governmental Body shall have been instituted or threatened to
restrain or prohibit or otherwise challenge the legality or validity of the transactions contemplated hereby. No Governmental Body shall have enacted, issued, promulgated, enforced or entered any statute, rule, regulation, injunction or other order
(whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that remains in effect and that has the effect of making the transactions contemplated hereby illegal or otherwise restraining, enjoining or   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         55   

prohibiting consummation of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement, and none of the Company, Parent, AcquisitionCo or the Representative shall have received written notice from any
Governmental Body that it has determined to institute any Action to restrain or enjoin the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby or to nullify or render ineffective this Agreement if consummated, or to take any other action that would
result in the prohibition or a material change in the terms of the transactions contemplated hereby.       Section 10.4
 Necessary Governmental Approvals .  The parties shall have received all approvals and actions of or by all Governmental Bodies that are required to be obtained prior to Closing by applicable Law.   
   Section 10.5  Necessary Consents .  The Company shall have received consents, in form and substance reasonably
satisfactory to Parent, to the transactions contemplated hereby from the other parties to all material Contracts (including any Contract listed or required to be listed on  Schedule 5.14 ) and Governmental Permits to which the Company is a
party or by which the Company or any of its assets or properties is affected, including consents with respect to the Contracts specified on  Schedule 10.5 .       Section 10.6  Stockholder Approval .       (a) This Agreement shall
have been duly adopted by the Necessary Stockholder Approval in accordance with the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws, the Company Voting Agreement and the DGCL.      (b) The number of Shares that are Dissenters  Shares shall be less than  [*]  of the number of Shares outstanding immediately prior to the Closing.   
  (c) Prior to the Effective Time, the Company shall have delivered to Parent evidence reasonably satisfactory to Parent that any Requisite
280G Vote pursuant to Section 8.13 was solicited in conformity with Section 280G of the Code and the Treasury Regulations thereunder and (A) the requisite Stockholder approval was obtained with respect to any payments or benefits that
were subject to the Requisite 280G Vote or (B) that such  excess parachute payments  shall not be made or provided, pursuant to the terms of the applicable plan, agreement or arrangement under which such payments or benefits were to
be made or pursuant to valid waivers of those payments or benefits, which were duly executed, in accordance with Section 8.13, by each Person who might otherwise receive such  excess parachute payments.    
  (d) None of the Stockholders shall have exercised (or requested exercise of) any of their registration rights or any of their redemption
rights (if exercisable) under the Company Investor Rights Agreement.      (e) The provisions of the drag-along rights described in
Section 4 of the Company Voting Agreement shall have been invoked and fully enforced by the requisite parties to the Company Voting Agreement.       Section 10.7  Actions Relating to Company Stock Plan and Company Options .  All of the actions required to have been taken by the Company pursuant to (or to permit or authorize the
treatment of Company Options contemplated by) Section 8.8 with respect   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         56   

to the Company Stock Plan and the Company Options shall have been taken. All of the actions required to have been taken by the Company pursuant to (or to permit or authorize the treatment of
unvested shares of Company Common Stock contemplated by) Section 2.1(g) with respect to unvested shares of Company Common Stock shall have been taken.  [*]        Section 10.8  Termination of 401(k) Plan .  The Company shall have adopted resolutions to effect the termination of the Company 401(k) Plan, with such termination effective on the day
immediately prior to the Closing Date but contingent on the Closing.       Section 10.9  Indebtedness .  All
Indebtedness of the Company shall have been repaid in full, including any pre-payment penalties or change of control premiums or penalties, make-whole amounts or similar payments required in connection with the Merger or prepayment or early
termination of such Indebtedness, and the lenders with respect to such Indebtedness shall have consented to any such prepayment or early termination. All Encumbrances relating to or securing such Indebtedness shall have been released and related
UCC-3 Termination Statements shall have been filed with respect to any such Encumbrances.       Section 10.10  Company
Closing Deliveries .  The Company shall have delivered each of the documents required to be delivered at Closing pursuant to Section 4.5.       Section 10.11  Employee Retention .  None of  [*]  shall have taken any one or more of the following actions: (a) ceased to be employed by, or expressed in writing to any Person
(or orally to an officer or director of Parent or the Company) an intention to terminate employment with, the Company or the Surviving Corporation; (b) become incapable of fulfilling any of his or her material duties to the Company or the
Surviving Corporation; or (c) expressed in writing to any Person (or orally to an officer or director of Parent or the Company which oral statement has not been retracted in writing) an intention to decline to accept, or an intention to
terminate, employment with Parent, the Surviving Corporation or any other Subsidiary of Parent.       ARTICLE XI    
   CONDITIONS PRECEDENT TO OBLIGATIONS OF THE COMPANY       The obligations of the Company under this Agreement to effect the Merger and otherwise consummate the transactions contemplated hereby shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver, at or prior to the
Effective Time, of the following conditions:       Section 11.1  No Breach of Covenants or Representations and
Warranties .       (a) Parent and AcquisitionCo shall have complied with and performed in all material respects all of their
covenants and agreements contained herein to be complied with or performed by them at or prior to the Closing, in each of the foregoing cases ignoring all  materiality ,  in all material respects  and other similar
qualifications;  provided   ,  however   , that the condition set forth in this Section 11.1(a) shall be deemed to have been satisfied if the circumstances involved in such noncompliance or nonperformance have not had and
would not reasonably be expected to have or result in a material adverse effect on Parent s ability to consummate the Merger.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         57   

(b) Each of the representations and warranties of Parent and AcquisitionCo contained or
referred to in this Agreement shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of the date hereof and shall be true and correct in all material respects at the Effective Time as though made at and as of the Effective Time (except to the
extent that any such representation or warranty expressly relates to an earlier date, in which case, such representation or warranty shall have been true and correct in all material respects as of that date), in each of the foregoing cases ignoring
all  materiality ,  in all material respects ,  Material Adverse Effect  and other similar qualifications;  provided   ,  however   , that the condition set forth in this Section 11.1(b) shall
be deemed to have been satisfied notwithstanding the existence of inaccuracies in such representations and warranties if the circumstances rendering such representations and warranties untrue or incorrect have not had and would not reasonably be
expected to have or result in a material adverse effect on Parent s ability to consummate the Merger.      (c) There shall
have been delivered to the Company a certificate confirming the satisfaction of the conditions set forth in clauses (a) and (b) above, dated the Closing Date, signed on behalf of Parent by an executive officer of Parent.   
   Section 11.2  No Restraint or Litigation .  No Action by any Governmental Body shall have been instituted or threatened
to restrain or prohibit or otherwise challenge the legality or validity of the transactions contemplated hereby. No Governmental Body shall have enacted, issued, promulgated, enforced or entered any statute, rule, regulation, injunction or other
order (whether temporary, preliminary or permanent) that remains in effect and that has the effect of making the transactions contemplated hereby illegal or otherwise restraining, enjoining or prohibiting consummation of the transactions
contemplated by this Agreement, and neither the Company nor Parent shall have received written notice from any Governmental Body that it has determined to institute any Action to restrain or enjoin the consummation of the transactions contemplated
hereby or to nullify or render ineffective this Agreement if consummated, or to take any other action that would result in the prohibition or a material change in the terms of the transactions contemplated hereby.   
   Section 11.3  Stockholder Approval .  This Agreement shall have been duly adopted by the Necessary Stockholder Approval
in accordance with the Company Charter, the Company Bylaws, the Company Voting Agreement and the DGCL.       Section 11.4
 Parent Closing Deliveries .  Parent and AcquisitionCo shall have delivered each of the documents required to be delivered at Closing pursuant to Sections 4.3 and 4.4, respectively.   
   ARTICLE XII    
   INDEMNIFICATION        Section 12.1  Indemnification of Parent Group Members .       (a)
Subject to the provisions of this Article XII, from and after the Effective Time, each Parent Group Member shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Participants severally and not jointly from and against any and all Losses and Expenses incurred
by any such Parent Group Member in connection with or arising from:   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         58   

(i) any breach by the Company of any of its covenants or failure of the
Company to perform any of its obligations set forth in this Agreement or any Company Ancillary Agreement;      (ii)
any breach of or inaccuracy in any representation or warranty of the Company contained or referred to in this Agreement or in any Company Ancillary Agreement, or in any certificate delivered by or on behalf of the Company pursuant hereto, whether as
of the date of this Agreement or as of the Closing Date (as if made as of such date), in each case without giving effect to the knowledge qualifiers (such as  to the Knowledge of  or similar qualification);   
  (iii) any matter for which indemnification of any Parent Group Member is provided under Section 9.1;   
  (iv) any inaccuracy in the Closing Calculation Certificate or in any other certificate delivered by or on behalf of the
Company at or as a condition to the Closing;      (v) any exercise of appraisal rights pursuant to Section 262
of the DGCL or demand therefor by any Stockholder, but only to the extent that the aggregate of such Losses and Expenses incurred in respect of such Stockholder s exercise of such rights exceeds the aggregate amount that such Stockholder would
otherwise have received for its Shares at the Closing in accordance with the terms of this Agreement if such Stockholder had not exercised such rights; and      (vi) (A) any claim by a Stockholder or former stockholder of the Company, or by any other Person, seeking to assert, or based upon ownership or rights to ownership of any Shares or options for
Shares; (B) any claim by a Stockholder or former stockholder of the Company seeking to assert, or based upon: (I) any right under the Company Charter or Company Bylaws or state or federal Laws relating to corporate governance; or
(II) any claim, whether derivative or otherwise, against any director of the Company relating to the sale of the Company.   
   provided ,  however , that subject to Section 12.1(d):   
  (A) Parent Group Members shall not be indemnified or held harmless under clause (ii) of this sentence with respect
to Losses and Expenses incurred by Parent Group Members (other than Losses and Expenses incurred as a result of any breaches of or inaccuracies in the Specified Representations, to which this clause (A) shall not apply) unless the aggregate
amount of all Losses and Expenses subject to indemnification under this Section 12.1 exceeds  [*]  (the   Basket Amount  ), and once the Basket Amount is exceeded, Parent Group Members shall be indemnified and held harmless
for all such Losses and Expenses, including the Basket Amount;      (B) in no event shall the aggregate amount for
which Parent Group Members shall be indemnified and held harmless under clause (ii) of this sentence (other than Losses and Expenses incurred as a result of any breaches of or   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         59   

inaccuracies in the Specified Representations, to which this clause (B) shall not apply) exceed an amount equal to  [*] ; and   
  (C) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement in no event shall the aggregate amount for which any
Participant is personally liable under this Section 12.1 for Losses and Expenses incurred by Parent Group Members exceed the amount of Aggregate Merger Consideration received by such Participant pursuant to Section 2.1 hereof (including
any amounts deposited in to the Indemnity Escrow Fund on behalf of such Participant).      (b) The indemnification provided for in
this Section 12.1 shall terminate  [*]  after the Closing Date (and no claims shall be made by any Parent Group Member under this Section 12.1 thereafter), except that (i) the indemnification provided for in this
Section 12.1 with respect to any of the Specified Representations shall terminate 30 days after the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations, and (ii) indemnification of Parent Group Members shall continue as to any claim of
which any Parent Group Member has notified the Representative in accordance with the requirements of Section 12.2 on or prior to the date such indemnification would otherwise terminate in accordance with this Section 12.1, as to which the
right of the Parent Group Member to be indemnified shall continue until the liability shall have been determined pursuant to this Article XII, and if owed, all Parent Group Members shall have been reimbursed for the full amount of such Loss and
Expense in accordance with this Article XII.      (c) The Parent Group Members shall be entitled to the indemnification provided
for under this Section 12.1 even if any of them had knowledge at any time of the matter that is later the subject of a claim for indemnity.      (d) The limitations on indemnification contained in Section 12.1(a) and Section 12.1(b) shall not apply in the case of fraud or intentional misrepresentation;  provided ,  however ,
that in no event shall the aggregate amount for which Parent Group Members shall be indemnified and held harmless in the case of fraud or intentional misrepresentation under Section 12.1 exceed the Aggregate Merger Consideration.   
  (e) With respect to: (i) the representations and warranties of the Company contained in Sections  [*]  (the   Identified
Representations  ), all materiality qualifiers (such as  materiality,   material  and  Material Adverse Effect ) shall be disregarded for all purposes in connection with Article XII and shall not be given
effect, including for the purpose of determining whether the Basket Amount has been satisfied, for the purpose of determining whether a breach has occurred and for the purpose of calculating Losses; and (ii) the representations and warranties
of the Company contained in or made by or pursuant to this Agreement (other than the Identified Representations), all materiality qualifiers (such as  materiality,   material  and  Material Adverse Effect ) shall be
disregarded and not given any effect for all purposes in connection with Article XII (including for the purpose of determining whether the Basket Amount has been satisfied and for the purpose of calculating Losses) other than for purposes of
determining whether a breach has occurred.      (f) Claims for indemnification pursuant to this Article XII made by a Parent Group
Member shall be satisfied first from funds held in the Indemnity Escrow Fund and then by payment of cash or other immediately available funds from the Participants, with each   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         60   

Participant s liability limited to such Participant s Escrow Percentage of the Losses or Expenses claimed; [*] .   
  (g) All representations and warranties of Parent and AcquisitionCo, and all obligations, agreements and covenants of Parent and
AcquisitionCo to be performed at or prior to the Effective Time, shall terminate and expire as of the Effective Time, and any liability of Parent or AcquisitionCo with respect to such representations, warranties, obligations, agreements and
covenants shall thereupon cease.       Section 12.2  Notice of Claims .    
  (a) Any Parent Group Member seeking indemnification hereunder shall give to the Representative prompt written notice (a   Claim
Notice  ) describing in reasonable detail the facts giving rise to the claim for indemnification hereunder and shall include in such Claim Notice (if then known) the amount or the method of computation of the amount of such claim and a
reference to the provision of this Agreement or any other Contract, document or instrument executed hereunder or in connection herewith upon which such claim is based. A Claim Notice in respect of any Action by or against a Person that is not
(i) a party to this Agreement or (ii) a Parent Group Member (each, a   Third Person  ) as to which indemnification will be sought (each, a   Third-Person Claim  ) shall be given within a reasonable period of
time after Parent obtains actual knowledge of such Action. The failure of any Parent Group Member seeking indemnification hereunder (each, an   Indemnified Party  ) to give the Claim Notice to the Representative within a reasonable
period of time as required by this Section 12.2 shall not affect such Indemnified Party s rights under this Article XII except to the extent such failure is actually prejudicial to the rights and obligations of the Participants.
     (b) After the giving of any Claim Notice pursuant hereto, the amount of indemnification to which an Indemnified Party shall
be entitled under this Article XII shall be determined: (i) by the written agreement between the Indemnified Party and the Representative; (ii) by a final judgment or decree of any court of competent jurisdiction; or (iii) by an
Award. The judgment or decree of a court shall be deemed final when the time for appeal, if any, shall have expired and no appeal shall have been taken or when all appeals taken shall have been finally determined.   
  (c) If any Claim Notice, written agreement between the Indemnified Party and the Representative, final judgment or decree of any court or
any Award is delivered to a party pursuant to this Section 12.2, a copy of such Claim Notice, written agreement, final judgment or decree or Award shall be delivered promptly to the Escrow Agent. Upon the determination of any amount of
indemnification payable to the Indemnified Party pursuant to Section 12.2(b), if cash remains in the Indemnity Escrow Fund, the Indemnified Party and the Representative shall promptly direct the Escrow Agent to act in accordance with such
written agreement, final judgment or decree or Award and distribute cash from the Indemnity Escrow Fund in accordance therewith.       Section 12.3  Third-Person Claims. [*]     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         61   

Section 12.4  Effect of Insurance; Tax Treatment .    
  (a)  [*]    
  (b)  [*]    
   Section 12.5  No Contribution by the Company .  For the avoidance of doubt, neither the Participants nor the
Representative may seek contribution from the Company with respect to any indemnification obligation hereunder.   
   Section 12.6  Limitations; Sole and Exclusive Remedy .  Except for remedies that cannot be waived as a matter of law and
equitable, injunctive and provisional relief (including specific performance), and except in the case of fraud or intentional misrepresentation, if the Closing occurs, and without limiting the effect of Section 12.1(e), this Article XII shall
be the sole and exclusive remedy for breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty, or covenant contained herein, or otherwise in respect of the transactions contemplated hereby, and the parties hereto hereby waive, from and after the
Closing, any and all other remedies which may be available at Law or equity for any breach or inaccuracy or alleged breach of, or inaccuracy in, any representation, warranty, or covenant contained herein, or otherwise in respect of the transactions
contemplated hereby.       ARTICLE XIII        TERMINATION        Section 13.1  Termination .    
  Anything contained in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, this Agreement may be terminated at any time prior to the Effective
Time:      (a) by the mutual consent of the Company and Parent;   
  (b) by Parent if the Company shall have breached any of its covenants or agreements contained herein or in any of the Company Ancillary
Agreements to be complied with or performed by the Company at or prior to the Closing, such that the condition set forth in Section 10.1(a) would not be satisfied, and, if such breach is capable of being cured, the failure of the Company to
cure such breach on or before the later of (i) that date that is within 20 days after receipt of notice from Parent requesting such breach to be cured and (ii) the Termination Date;   
  (c) by Parent if any representation or warranty of the Company contained in this Agreement or any of the Company Ancillary Agreements
shall have been breached or shall have been inaccurate in any material respect as of the date hereof, or shall have become breached or inaccurate in any material respect as of a date subsequent to the date hereof (as if made on and as of such
subsequent date), such that (in either case) the condition set forth in Section 10.1(b) would not be satisfied, in each of the foregoing cases ignoring all  materiality,   in all material respects,   Material Adverse
Effect  and other similar qualifications, ignoring all knowledge qualifiers (such as  to the Knowledge of  or similar qualifications) and ignoring any update of or modification to the Disclosure Schedule made or purported to have been
made on or after the date hereof, and, if such breach or inaccuracy is capable of being cured, the failure of the Company to   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         62   

cure such breach or inaccuracy on or before the later of (i) that date that is within 20 days after receipt of notice from Parent requesting such breach or inaccuracy to be cured and
(ii) the Termination Date;      (d) by the Company if Parent or AcquisitionCo shall have breached any of its covenants or
agreements contained herein to be complied with or performed by the Company or AcquisitionCo at or prior to the Closing, such that the condition set forth in Section 11.1(a) would not be satisfied, and, if such breach is capable of being cured,
the failure of Parent or AcquisitionCo to cure such breach on or before the later of (i) that date that is within 20 days after receipt of notice from the Company requesting such breach to be cured and (ii) the Termination Date;
     (e) by the Company if any representation or warranty of Parent or AcquisitionCo contained in this Agreement shall have been
breached or shall have been inaccurate in any material respect as of the date hereof, or shall have become breached or inaccurate in any material respect as of a date subsequent to the date hereof (as if made on and as of such subsequent date), such
that (in either case) the condition set forth in Section 11.1(b) would not be satisfied, in each of the foregoing cases ignoring all  materiality,   in all material respects,   Material Adverse Effect  and other
similar qualifications, ignoring all knowledge qualifiers (such as  to the Knowledge of  or similar qualifications) and, if such breach or inaccuracy is capable of being cured, the failure of Parent or AcquisitionCo to cure such breach or
inaccuracy on or before the later of (i) that date that is within 20 days after receipt of notice from the Company requesting such breach or inaccuracy to be cured and (ii) the Termination Date;   
  (f) by the Company or Parent if any court of competent jurisdiction in the United States or other Governmental Body shall have issued a
final and non-appealable order, decree or ruling permanently restraining, enjoining or otherwise prohibiting the consummation of the Merger, provided that the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this Section 13.1(f) shall not be
available to a party whose failure to fulfill any of its obligations under this Agreement has been a cause of the issuance of the order, decree or ruling;      (g) by the Company or Parent if the Effective Time shall not have occurred on or before  [*]  (or such later date as may be mutually agreed to by the Company and Parent, such date, the
  Termination Date    provided ,  however , that in the event that at any time Parent takes the position that the closing condition set forth in Section  [*]  has not been satisfied, and the Company disputes such
position, the Termination Date shall be extended by any period in which such dispute remains unresolved and for a period of  [*]  Business Days thereafter; and  provided   further , that the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant
to this Section 13.1(g) shall not be available to a party whose failure to fulfill any of its obligations under this Agreement has been the primary cause of the Effective Time not occurring on or before such date; or   
  (h) by Parent, if the Company shall not have received the Necessary Stockholder Approval within  [*]  of the execution and delivery
hereof.       Section 13.2  Notice of Termination .    
  Any party desiring to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 13.1 shall give written notice of such termination to the other
parties to this Agreement.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         63   

Section 13.3  Effect of Termination .  In the event that this Agreement
shall be terminated pursuant to this Article XIII, all further obligations of the parties under this Agreement (other than this Section 13.3 and Article XIV) shall be terminated without further liability of any party to the others, provided
that nothing herein shall relieve any party from liability for its willful breach of this Agreement.       ARTICLE XIV
       GENERAL PROVISIONS        Section 14.1  No Public Announcement .  No party hereto shall, without the approval of all of the other parties, make any press release or other public announcement concerning the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement, except as and to the extent that any such party shall be so obligated by Law or the rules of any stock exchange, in which case the other parties shall be advised and the parties shall use commercially
reasonable efforts to cause a mutually agreeable release or announcement to be issued;  provided ,  however , that the foregoing shall not preclude communications or disclosures necessary to implement the provisions of this Agreement or to
comply with accounting and Securities and Exchange Commission disclosure obligations.       Section 14.2
 Notices .  All notices or other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally or sent by registered or certified mail or by private overnight courier or facsimile (with receipt
confirmed telephonically) addressed as follows:      If to the Surviving Corporation (after the Effective Time), Parent or AcquisitionCo to:
     Gilead Sciences, Inc.      333 Lakeside Drive      Foster City, CA 94404   
  Fax: (650) 522-5771      Attention: General Counsel      with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):   
  Cooley LLP   
  3175 Hanover Street      Palo Alto, CA 94304      Telephone: (650) 843-5000   
  Fax: (650) 849-7400      Attention: David A. Lipkin      If to the Company (prior to the Effective Time) to:   
  Arresto Biosciences, Inc.      3183 Porter Drive      Palo Alto, CA 94304   
  Fax: (650) 320-8048      Attention: Peter Van Vlasselaer   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         64   

with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):   
  Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin   Hachigian, LLP   
  1200 Seaport Blvd   
  Redwood City, CA 94063      Telephone: (650) 463-5266      Fax: (877) 881-6112   
  Attention: Marcia A. Hatch      If
to the Representative:      HealthCare Ventures VIII, L.P.   
  55 Cambridge Parkway, Suite 301      Cambridge, MA 02142-1234      Telephone: (617) 252-4343   
  Fax: (617) 252-4342      Attention: Augustine Lawlor      with a copy to (which shall not constitute notice):   
  Gunderson Dettmer Stough Villeneuve Franklin   Hachigian, LLP   
  1200 Seaport Blvd   
  Redwood City, CA 94063      Telephone: (650) 463-5266      Fax: (877) 881-6112   
  Attention: Marcia A. Hatch      or
to such other address as such party may indicate by a notice delivered to the other parties hereto in accordance with this Section 14.2. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been duly given and received (a) if delivered personally, as
of the date received, (b) if delivered by certified mail, return receipt requested, two Business Days after being mailed, (c) if delivered by a private courier, one Business Day after being sent to such delivery service, or (d) if
sent via facsimile, as of the date of telephonic confirmation of receipt.       Section 14.3  Successors and
Assigns .       (a) The rights of each party hereto under this Agreement shall not be assignable by such party hereto prior
to the Effective Time without the written consent of the other parties hereto, except that the rights of Parent hereunder may be assigned prior to the Effective Time, without the consent of any other party hereto, to any corporation all of the
outstanding capital stock of which is owned or controlled by Parent, to any limited liability company of which Parent or any such corporation owns or controls all membership interests or to any general or limited partnership in which Parent or any
such corporation is a general partner, provided that (i) the assignee shall assume in writing all of Parent s obligations hereunder and (ii) Parent shall not be released from any of its obligations hereunder by reason of such
assignment.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         65   

Following the Effective Time, any party hereto may assign any of its rights hereunder, but no such assignment shall relieve it of its obligations hereunder.   
  (b) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their successors and permitted assigns. The
successors and permitted assigns hereunder shall include, in the case of Parent, any permitted assignee as well as the successors in interest to such permitted assignee (whether by merger, liquidation (including successive mergers or liquidations)
or otherwise). Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, is intended or shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties, their successors and assigns permitted by this Section 14.3 and any Indemnified Party) that is
not a party hereto any right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.       Section 14.4  Entire Agreement;
Amendments .       (a) This Agreement and the Exhibits and Schedules referred to herein, and the documents delivered
pursuant hereto or thereto contain the entirety of the agreements, understandings, covenants, representations and warranties of the parties hereto and thereto with regard to the subject matter contained herein or therein, and supersede all prior
agreements, understandings, covenants, representations, warranties or the letters of intent between or among any of the parties hereto, other than the Confidentiality Agreement. As of the Effective Time, this Agreement shall supersede the
Confidentiality Agreement.      (b) This Agreement shall not be amended, modified or supplemented except by a written instrument
signed by an authorized representative of each of the parties hereto;  provided ,  however  that, from and after the time the Necessary Stockholder Approval has been obtained and prior to the Effective Time, any such amendment or waiver
that, in accordance with the DGCL, requires consent of the Stockholders shall be effective only to the extent such Stockholder approval has been obtained for such amendment or waiver (with it being understood and agreed that, to the maximum extent
permitted under the DGCL, any amendment or waiver of this Agreement shall be effective without the requirement that such Stockholder approval for such amendment or waiver be obtained). No course of dealing between or among any Persons having any
interest in this Agreement shall be deemed effective to modify, amend or discharge any part of this Agreement or any rights or obligations of any Person under or by reason of this Agreement.   
   Section 14.5  Interpretation .  For purposes of this Agreement: (a) the words  include, 
 includes  and  including  shall be deemed to be followed by the words  without limitation,  (b) the word  or  is not exclusive, (c) the words  herein,   hereof, 
 hereby,   hereto  and  hereunder  refer to this Agreement as a whole and (d) the word  extent  in the phrase  to the extent  means the degree to which a subject or other thing extends, and such
phrase does not mean simply  if . Unless the context otherwise requires, references herein: (i) to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules mean the Articles and Sections of and the Exhibits and Schedules attached to this Agreement;
(ii) to a Contract, instrument or other document means such Contract, instrument or other document as amended, supplemented and modified from time to time to the extent permitted by the provisions thereof and by this Agreement and (iii) to
a statute means such statute as amended from time to time and includes any successor legislation thereto and regulations promulgated thereunder. The Schedules and Exhibits referred   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         66   

to herein shall be construed with and as an integral part of this Agreement to the same extent as if they were set forth verbatim herein. Titles to Articles and headings of Sections are inserted
for convenience of reference only and shall not be deemed a part of or to affect meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. This Agreement and the Company Ancillary Agreements shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule requiring
construction or interpretation against the party drafting an instrument or causing any instrument to be drafted.   
   Section 14.6  Waivers .  Any term or provision of this Agreement may be waived, or the time for its performance may be
extended, by the party or parties entitled to the benefit thereof. Any such waiver shall be in a written instrument duly executed and delivered on behalf of such party or parties. The failure of any party hereto to enforce at any time any provision
of this Agreement shall not be construed to be a waiver of such provision, nor in any way to affect the validity of this Agreement or any part hereof or the right of any party thereafter to enforce each and every such provision. No waiver of any
breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other or subsequent breach.       Section 14.7
 Expenses .  Subject to giving effect to the deduction of the Unpaid Cost Amount from the Aggregate Closing Merger Consideration, each of the parties hereto shall bear its own costs and expenses (including fees and disbursements of its
counsel, accountants, investment bankers and other financial, legal, accounting or other advisors), incurred by it or its Affiliates in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement and each of
the other documents and instruments executed in connection with or contemplated by this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby and thereby and the process relating to the sale of the Company, including, in the case of
the Company, the cost of the D O Insurance purchased by the Company pursuant to Section 9.3 (collectively, the   Transaction Costs  ).       Section 14.8  Partial Invalidity .  Wherever possible, each provision hereof shall be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable Law, but in case any one or
more of the provisions contained herein shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity, illegality or
unenforceability without invalidating the remainder of such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision or provisions or any other provisions hereof, unless such a construction would be unreasonable.   
   Section 14.9  Execution in Counterparts .  This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which
shall be considered an original instrument, but all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement, and shall become binding when one or more counterparts have been signed by each of the parties hereto and delivered to each of the other
parties hereto. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by facsimile transmission or PDF by electronic transmission shall be effective delivery of a manually executed counterpart to this Agreement.   
   Section 14.10  Further Assurances .  From time to time after the Effective Time, the officers and directors of the
Surviving Corporation shall be authorized to execute and deliver, in the name and on behalf of AcquisitionCo, the Company or otherwise, such deeds and other instruments and to take or cause to be taken such further or other action as shall be
necessary or   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         67   

desirable in order to vest or perfect in or to confirm, of record or otherwise, in the Surviving Corporation title to, and possession of, all of the property, rights, privileges, powers,
immunities and franchises of AcquisitionCo and the Company and otherwise carry out the purposes of this Agreement.   
   Section 14.11  Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction .    
  (a) This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal Laws (as opposed to the conflicts of law
provisions) of the State of Delaware.      (b) Each of the parties hereto agrees that all actions or suits with respect to any
dispute hereunder shall be brought in the Chancery Court of the State of Delaware or the United States District Court for the District of Delaware and the appellate courts having jurisdiction with respect to appeals from such courts. In that
context, and without limiting the generality of the foregoing, each of the parties hereto irrevocably and unconditionally:      (i) submits for itself and its property in any Action relating to this Agreement, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect thereof, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Chancery Court
of the State of Delaware and the United States District Court for the District of Delaware or any court of the State of Delaware located in Wilmington, Delaware, and appellate courts having jurisdiction with respect to appeals from any of the
foregoing, and agrees that all claims in respect of any such Action shall be heard and determined in the Delaware Chancery Court or, to the extent permitted by Law, in such federal court;   
  (ii) consents that any such Action may and shall be brought in such courts and waives any objection that it may now or
hereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any such Action in any such court or that such Action was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;   
  (iii) waives all right to trial by jury in any Action (whether based on contract, tort or otherwise) arising out of or
relating to this Agreement, or its performance under or the enforcement of this Agreement;      (iv) agrees that
service of process in any such Action may be effected by mailing a copy of such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to it at its address as provided in Section 14.2; and
     (v) agrees that nothing in this Agreement shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other
manner permitted by the Laws of the State of Delaware.       Section 14.12  Third-Party Beneficiaries .  It is
expressly acknowledged and agreed that the Indemnified Parties shall be third-party beneficiaries of Article XII. Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, there are no third-party beneficiaries of any of the provisions of this
Agreement.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         68   

ARTICLE XV        DEFINITIONS        Section 15.1  Definitions .  In this
Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified or referred to in this Section 15.1 and shall be equally applicable to both the singular and plural forms.         AAA    has the meaning specified in Section 14.12(b).   
     AB0024    means  [*]        [*]          AcquisitionCo    has the meaning specified in
the first paragraph of this Agreement.       [*]          Action    means any claim, action, suit, arbitration, inquiry, proceeding, charge, demand, or any investigation by or before any Governmental Body.   
     Affiliate    means, with respect to any Person, any other Person which directly or indirectly Controls, is
Controlled by or is under common Control with such Person, it being understood that the Surviving Corporation shall be determined to be an Affiliate of Parent after the Closing, provided that no Person Controlled by a Stockholder or director of the
Company shall be considered an Affiliate of the Company by virtue of such Control.         Affiliated
Person    has the meaning specified in Section 5.24(a).         Aggregate Exercise Amount   
means the aggregate dollar amount payable to the Company as purchase price for the exercise of unexercised Company Options that are outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.   
     Aggregate Closing Merger Consideration    means the Base Purchase Price  plus   [*]   minus 
 [*]  and  minus   [*] .         Aggregate Merger Consideration    means the sum of the
Aggregate Closing Merger Consideration plus the aggregate amount of all payments of Contingent Consideration under  Exhibit C .         Aggregate Non-Dissenting Amount    means the sum of (A) the product of (i) the number of Shares outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time that are not
Dissenters  Shares  multiplied by  (ii) the Per Share Closing Amount,  plus  (B) the aggregate amount of the following (calculated separately with respect to each Company Option described in Section 8.8(a)(ii) or
 [*] ): the product of (x) the number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to such Company Option immediately prior to the Effective Time,  multiplied by  (y) the dollar amount by which the Per Share Closing Amount exceeds
the exercise price per share of   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         69   

Company Common Stock in effect under such Company Option immediately prior to the Effective Time.         Agreement    has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.         Award    has the meaning specified in Section 14.12(c).         Balance Sheet    means the audited balance sheet of the Company as of the Balance Sheet Date, included in  Schedule 5.4 .  
     Balance Sheet Date    means December 31, 2009.   
     Base Purchase Price    means $225,000,000.   
     Basket Amount    has the meaning specified in Section 12.1(a)(A).   
     Board Recommendation    has the meaning specified in Section 8.1(a).   
     Business Day    means any day, other than a Saturday, Sunday or any other date in which banks located in New York,
New York are closed for business as a result of a federal, state or local holiday.         Cash Amount   
means the aggregate amount of all cash and cash equivalents of the Company, as of the Effective Time (after giving effect to all payments to be made at or prior to the Effective Time by the Company in connection with the transactions contemplated by
this Agreement), determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP.         CERCLA    means the Comprehensive
Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.    9601  et   seq .   
     Certificate    has the meaning specified in Section 3.1(a).   
     Claim Notice    has the meaning specified in Section 12.2(a).   
     Closing    has the meaning specified in Section 4.1.   
     Closing Calculation Certificate    has the meaning specified in Section 8.9(b).   
     Closing Date    has the meaning specified in Section 4.1.   
     Closing Distribution Ratio    means an amount equal to (a) 1.00  minus  (b) the following quotient:
      Indemnity Escrow Amount       Aggregate Non-Dissenting Amount         Closing Indebtedness   
means, with respect to the Company as of immediately prior to the Effective Time, without duplication: (a) all obligations of the Company for borrowed money or in respect of loans or advances; (b) all obligations of the Company evidenced
by   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         70   

bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; and (c) all obligations in respect of letters of credit, whether or not drawn, and bankers  acceptances issued for the account of
the Company.         Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.   
     Company    has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.   
     Company 401(k) Plan    has the meaning specified in Section 9.2(e).   
     Company Agreements    has the meaning specified in Section 5.15.   
     Company Ancillary Agreements    means all agreements, instruments and documents being or to be executed and
delivered by the Company under this Agreement or in connection herewith.         Company Benefit Plans   
means any  employee benefit plan  (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA), whether or not subject to ERISA, and any other employee benefit plan, foreign plan, program, policy or Contract, including any pension, retirement,
profit-sharing, thrift, savings, bonus, incentive, stock option or other equity or equity-based compensation, deferred compensation, stock purchase, severance pay, retention, change of control, unemployment benefits, sick leave, vacation pay, salary
continuation for disability, hospitalization, health or medical insurance, life insurance, fringe benefit, flexible spending account or scholarship plan, program, policy or Contract, maintained by the Company or an ERISA Affiliate, or to which the
Company or an ERISA Affiliate is obligated to contribute or has any current or contingent obligation or liability.   
     Company Bylaws    has the meaning specified in Section 4.5(c).   
     Company Charter    has the meaning specified in Section 4.5(a).   
     Company Common Stock    has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Agreement.   
     Company Co-Sale Agreement    means the Amended and Restated First Refusal and Co-Sale Agreement by and among the
Company and the other parties named therein, dated as of April 28, 2010.         Company Group    means
any  affiliated group  (as defined in Section 1504(a) of the Code without regard to the limitations contained in Section 1504(b) of the Code) that, at any time at or before the Effective Time, includes or has included the Company
or any predecessor of or successor to the Company (or another such predecessor or successor), or any other group of corporations that, at any time at or before the Effective Time, files or has filed Tax Returns on a combined, consolidated or unitary
basis with the Company or any predecessor of or successor to the Company (or another such predecessor or successor).   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         71   

Company Indemnification Agreements    means those certain
Indemnification Agreements entered into by and between the Company and its current and former directors, which agreements shall constitute  Company Agreements .         Company Preferred Stock    has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Agreement.         Company Investor Rights Agreement    means the Amended and Restated Investors  Rights Agreement by and among the Company and the other parties named therein, dated as of
April 28, 2010.         Company Representative    has the meaning specified in Section 8.12(a).
        Company Stock Plan    means the Company s 2007 Equity Incentive Plan.   
     Company Options    has the meaning specified in Section 5.2(c).   
     Company Stock Rights    means any options, warrants, convertible securities, subscriptions, stock appreciation
rights, phantom stock plans, stock equivalents, rights of first refusal or offer, preemptive rights or other rights, agreements, arrangements or commitments (contingent or otherwise and whether or not immediately exercisable) of any character
issued, granted, authorized or assumed by the Company or by which the Company is bound relating to all or any portion of the issued or unissued capital stock of the Company or obligating the Company to issue or grant, authorize or sell any shares of
capital stock of, or options, warrants, convertible securities, subscriptions or other equity interests or similar interests in, the Company.         Company Suppliers    has the meaning specified in Section 5.20.         Company Voting Agreement    means the Amended and Restated Voting Agreement by and among the Company and the other parties named therein, dated as of April 28, 2010.
        Confidentiality Agreement    means that certain Mutual Confidential Disclosure Agreement, dated as of
January 5, 2010, between Parent and the Company.         Constituent Corporations    has the meaning
specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.       [*]    
     Contract    means any contract, agreement, lease, license, sublicense, commitment, understanding and arrangement,
including any amendment thereto, invoice, purchase order, bid and quotation.         Control    means
(a) the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct the management or policies of a Person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; or (b) the ownership, directly or indirectly, of at least
fifty percent (50%) of the voting securities or other ownership interests of a Person.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         72   

Copyrights    means United States and foreign copyrights,
copyrightable works and mask works, moral rights and general intangibles of like nature, whether registered or unregistered, and pending applications to register the same.         Court Order    means any judgment, order, award or decree of any foreign, federal, state, local or other court or tribunal and any award in any arbitration proceeding.   
     D O Insurance    has the meaning specified in Section 9.3(b).   
     Data Subjects    has the meaning specified in Section 5.26(b).   
     DGCL    has the meaning specified in Section 1.1.   
     DHHS    has the meaning specified in Section 5.26(c).   
     Disclosure Schedule    has the meaning specified in Article V.   
     Dissenters  Shares    means Shares with respect to which appraisal shall have been duly demanded in
accordance with Section 262 of the DGCL and not effectively withdrawn or forfeited prior to the Effective Time.   
     Effective Time    has the meaning specified in Section 4.2.   
     Encumbrance    means any lien, claim, charge, security interest, mortgage, pledge, right of way, easement,
conditional sale or other title retention Contract, defect in title, encroachment or other restriction of any kind.   
     Environmental Damages    means all claims, judgments, damages, losses, penalties, fines, liabilities (including
strict liability), liens, costs and expenses of defense of a claim (whether or not such claim is ultimately defeated) and costs and expenses of reporting, investigating, removing or remediating a Release or any other Hazardous Materials of whatever
kind or nature, foreseeable or unforeseeable, or taking any other Remedial Action, including all liability under CERCLA or equivalent state Law (or under any applicable Law of any non-U.S. jurisdiction), and including attorneys  fees and
disbursements and consultants  fees, to the extent any of which arise out of or relate to the existence of Hazardous Materials at, upon, about or beneath any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property or any facilities to which the Company
has sent, transported, or arranged for the disposal or treatment of Hazardous Materials, or migrating or threatening to migrate to or from any Leased Real Property or Former Real Property or any facilities to which the Company has sent, transported,
or arranged for the disposal or treatment of Hazardous Materials.         Environmental Laws    means any and
all applicable international, national, regional, state and local Laws (including case law or common law), judgments, orders, decrees, codes, injunctions, permits, concessions, grants, franchises, licenses or Contracts relating to (i) worker
safety; (ii) human health; (iii) the environment or natural resources, including the Release of Hazardous Materials into the environment (including such Releases into or on ambient air, surface water, ground water, soil, soil gas,
facilities, structures or land); or (iv) otherwise relating to the manufacture, processing, distribution, use, treatment, storage, disposal, transport or   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         73   

handling of Hazardous Materials or the investigation, clean-up or other remediation thereof. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing,   Environmental Laws   include:
(a) RCRA; (b) CERCLA; (c) The Superfund Amendment and Reauthorization Act of 1984; (d) The Clean Air Act, 42 U.S.C.    7401 et seq.; (e) The Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C.    1251 et seq.; (f) The Safe
Drinking Water Act, 42 U.S.C.   300f et seq.; (g) the Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1976, 29 U.S.C.    651 et seq.; (h) the Toxic Substances Control Act, 15 U.S.C.    2601 et seq.; (i) The Emergency
Planning and Community Right-To-Know Act, 42 U.S.C.    11001 et seq.; (j) the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, 42 U.S.C.   2011 et seq., and the Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, 42. U.S.C.    5801 et seq.;
(k) the Animal Welfare Act, 7 U.S.C. Section 2131 et seq.; (l) all state and local Law counterparts and analogues to the federal laws listed in (a) through (k) of this definition; (m) any and all federal or state Laws
applicable to  medical waste  or  biomedical waste  (n) all rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to such federal, state and local Laws; and (o) all applicable equivalent or similar Laws or regulations of non-U.S.
jurisdictions.         ERISA    means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.   
     ERISA Affiliate    means any entity which, together with another entity, would be treated as a single employer
under Section 414 of the Code or Section 4001 of ERISA.         Escrow Agent    has the meaning
specified in Section 4.2.         Escrow Agreement    has the meaning specified in Section 4.2.
        Escrow Percentage    means, with respect to any Participant, the percentage corresponding to a
fraction having (i) a numerator equal to the aggregate amount of consideration payable to such Participant pursuant to Sections 2.1(c)(i), 2.1(d)(i), 8.8(a)(ii)(x) and  [*] , and (ii) a denominator equal to the aggregate amount of
consideration payable to all Participants pursuant to Sections 2.1(c)(i), 2.1(d)(i), 8.8(a)(ii)(x) and  [*] .   
     Estimated Closing Calculation Certificate    has the meaning specified in Section 8.9(a).   
     Exchange Agent    has the meaning specified in Section 4.2.   
     Exchange Agent Agreement    has the meaning specified in Section 4.2(a)(iv).   
     Exchange Fund    has the meaning specified in Section 4.2.   
     Expenses    means any and all expenses incurred in connection with investigating, defending or asserting any
claim, action, suit or proceeding incident to any matter indemnified against hereunder (including court filing fees, court costs, arbitration fees or costs, witness fees and reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel, investigators, expert
witnesses, consultants, accountants and other professionals).         FCPA    has the meaning specified in
Section 5.27(a).   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         74   

FDA    means the United States Food and Drug Administration, or any
successor organization.         Federal Health Care Program    means any plan or program that provides health
care benefits, whether directly, through insurance, or otherwise, that is funded directly, in whole or in part, by the government of the United States of America (other than the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program), including the Medicare,
Medicaid and TRICARE programs (described in Title XVIII of the SSA, Title XIX of the SSA, and Title 10, Chapter 55 of the U.S.C., respectively), or any state health care program (as defined in Section 1128(h) of the SSA).   
     FIRPTA    has the meaning specified in Section 5.7(c).   
     FIRPTA Certificate    has the meaning specified in Section 4.5(o).   
     Former Real Property    means each parcel of real property owned by any third Person which the Company leased,
held, used or operated at any time in the past.         Fully Diluted Company Share Number    means the sum of
(a) the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (including any such shares that are subject to a repurchase option or risk of forfeiture under any restricted stock purchase
agreement or other Contract and including any such shares subject to issuance pursuant to Company Options exercised prior to the Effective Time), (b) the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock purchasable under or otherwise subject
to Company Options that are outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time (whether or not such Company Options are vested or otherwise immediately exercisable), (c) the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock issuable upon the
conversion (at the applicable conversion ratio) of all shares of Company Preferred Stock outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time, and (d) the aggregate number of shares of Company Common Stock issuable upon the conversion or
exercise of any other convertible securities of the Company or Company Stock Rights outstanding immediately prior to the Effective Time.         General Exceptions    has the meaning specified in Section 5.1(b).         Governmental Body    means any United States federal, state or local, or any supra-national or non-U.S. government, political subdivision, governmental, regulatory or administrative
authority, instrumentality, agency body or commission, self-regulatory organization, court, tribunal or judicial or arbitral body.         Governmental Permits    has the meaning specified in Section 5.8(a).         Hazardous Materials    means any material (including biologic agents or vectors, genetically modified organisms (whether or not living), culture, or serum) that is (i) listed,
defined, characterized, regulated, or otherwise identified under any Environmental Laws as hazardous, toxic, ignitable, reactive, corrosive, radioactive, caustic, capable of causing harm to human health or the environment, a hazardous substance,
contaminant, toxic substance, toxic pollutant, waste, hazardous waste, special waste, pollutant, medical waste, biomedical waste, infectious, blood-borne pathogen, contagious, or words of similar import; (ii) capable of causing
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         75   

harm or injury to human health, natural resources or the environment or giving rise to liability or an obligation to remediate under Environmental Law; or (iii) oils, petroleum and its
derivatives and by-products and other hydrocarbons, polychlorinated biphenyls, nuclear materials, urea formaldehyde, bacteria, fungi and asbestos and asbestos containing materials.   
     Healthcare Data Requirements    has the meaning specified in Section 5.26(a).   
     HIPAA    has the meaning specified in Section 5.17(c).   
     HITECH    has the meaning specified in Section 5.26(a).   
     Indebtedness    means, with respect to any Person at any date, without duplication: (a) all obligations of
such Person for borrowed money or in respect of loans or advances; (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or other similar instruments; (c) all obligations in respect of letters of credit, whether or not
drawn, and bankers  acceptances issued for the account of such Person; (d) all interest rate or currency caps, collars, swaps or other similar protection agreements of such Person (valued on a market quotation basis); (e) any
indebtedness for the deferred purchase price of property or services with respect to which such Person is liable, contingently or otherwise, as obligor or otherwise (other than trade payables and other current liabilities incurred in the ordinary
course of business consistent with past business practices which are not more than 120 days past due, unless the same are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and with respect to which such Person has set aside adequate reserves
therefor in accordance with U.S. GAAP); (f) any commitment by which such Person assures a creditor against loss (including contingent reimbursement obligations with respect to letters of credit); (g) any obligations of such Person under
leases that are required to be capitalized in accordance with U.S. GAAP; (h) any indebtedness secured by an Encumbrance on such Person s assets; or (i) any guarantee or other contingent obligation (including obligations to repurchase,
reimburse or keep well) of such Person in respect of the items set forth in the foregoing clauses (a) through (h).   
     Indemnified Party    has the meaning specified in Section 12.2(a).   
     Indemnified Person    has the meaning specified in Section 9.3(a).   
     Indemnity Escrow Amount    means an amount equal to  [*] .   
     Indemnity Escrow Fund    has the meaning specified in Section 4.2.   
     Indemnity Claim    has the meaning specified in Section 6.1(d).   
     Information Statement    has the meaning specified in Section 8.1(c).   
     Insurance Benefits    has the meaning specified in Section 12.4(a).   
     Intellectual Property    means Copyrights, Patents, Trademarks and Trade Secrets.   
     IRS    means the United States Internal Revenue Service.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         76   

Knowledge of the Company    means, as to a particular matter, the
actual knowledge after reasonable inquiry of all officers of the Company and other senior members of management of the Company  [*] .         Law    means any foreign, federal, state and local laws, statutes, directives, regulations, rules, guidance, codes or ordinances enacted, adopted, issued or promulgated by any
Governmental Body (including those pertaining to electrical, building, zoning, subdivision, land use and Environmental Laws) or common law.         Leased Real Property    has the meaning specified in Section 5.9(a).         Licensed Intellectual Property    has the meaning specified in Section 5.11(e).         Losses    means any and all losses, costs, obligations, liabilities, settlement payments, awards, judgments, fines, penalties, damages, expenses, deficiencies or other charges,
including the costs of arbitration (including the fees and expenses of the arbitrator) in accordance with Section 14.12(d) [*] .         Material Adverse Effect    means (i) any condition, state of facts or circumstances, effect or change (  Effect  ) that  [*] .   
     Material Trade Secrets    has the meaning specified in Section 5.11(d).   
     Merger    has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Agreement.   
     Most Recent Financial Statements    has the meaning specified in Section 5.4.   
     Necessary Stockholder Approval    has the meaning specified in Section 5.29.   
     OFAC    has the meaning specified in Section 5.27(b).   
     Open Source License    means any license meeting the Open Source Definition (as promulgated by the Open Source
Initiative) or the Free Software Definition (as promulgated by the Free Software Foundation), or any substantially similar license.         Option Exchange Ratio    means a fraction, (a) the numerator of which is the Per Share Closing Amount, and (b) the denominator of which is the closing price per share of
Parent Common Stock on the Nasdaq Global Select Market on the Closing Date (or, if the Parent Common Stock is not traded on such date, then the closing price on the last trading day immediately prior to the Closing Date).   
     Option Holder    has the meaning specified in Section 8.8.   
     Owned Intellectual Property    has the meaning specified in Section 5.11(e).   
     Parent    has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Agreement.   
     Parent Common Stock    means Parent s common stock, par value $0.001 per share.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         77   

Parent Group Member    means (i) Parent and its Affiliates
(including the Surviving Corporation after the Effective Time), (ii) any of their respective directors, officers, employees, agents, attorneys and consultants and (iii) any successors and assigns of any of the foregoing.   
     Parent s 401(k) Plan    means any employee benefit plan (as defined in Section 3(3) of ERISA) of Parent
that is intended to include a Code Section 401(k) arrangement.         Participants    means (a) the
Stockholders immediately prior to the Effective Time (other than, with respect to any Dissenters  Shares, the holder thereof), and (b) the holders immediately prior to the Effective Time of Company Options described in Sections 8.8(a)(ii)
and  [*] .         Patents    means United States and foreign patents, draft, filed and unfiled patent
applications, continuations, continuations-in-part, divisions, reissues, reexaminations, extensions, patent disclosures, industrial designs, inventions (whether or not patentable or reduced to practice) and improvements thereto.   
     Payables    means all accounts payable of the Company, other than accounts payable that constitute Transaction
Costs or Closing Indebtedness.         Permitted Encumbrances    means (a) liens for Taxes and other
governmental charges and assessments arising in the ordinary course of business which are not yet due and payable, (b) liens of landlords and liens of carriers, warehousemen, mechanics and materialmen and other like liens arising in the
ordinary course of business for sums not yet due and payable, and (c) other liens or imperfections on property which are not material, do not interfere with, and are not violated by the consummation of the transactions contemplated by, this
Agreement or any of the Company Ancillary Agreements, and do not materially detract from the value or marketability of, or materially impair the existing use of, the property affected by such lien or imperfection.   
     Per Share Closing Amount    means the amount equal to the following quotient:   
    [*]         [*]         Per Share Contingent Amount    means, with respect
to any Contingent Consideration payable under  Exhibit C ,  [*] .         Person    means any
individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, association, joint-stock company, trust, unincorporated organization, Governmental Body or other entity or organization.   
     Personal Data    means non-public information relating to an identified or identifiable natural or legal Person.
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         78   

Pre-Closing Period    means the period commencing on the execution
and delivery of this Agreement and continuing until the earlier of (a) the termination hereof in accordance with Section 13.1 or (b) the Effective Time.         Privacy Rule    has the meaning set forth in 5.26(a).   
     Products    means all products in development, processed, manufactured, marketed, sold or licensed by the Company
(or any predecessor) prior to the Closing Date, including AB0024.         Protected Health Information   
shall have the same meaning set forth in 45 C.F.R.   160.103.         RCRA    means the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act, 42 U.S.C.    6901  et   seq .         Release    means,
whether intentional or unintentional, any release, spill, emission, leaking, pumping, injection, deposit, disposal, discharge, dispersal, leaching or migration of a Hazardous Material into the indoor or outdoor environment (including into or on
ambient air, surface water, ground water, soil, soil gas, facilities, structures or land).         Release
Agreement    has the meaning specified in Section 4.5(g).         Remedial Action    means
actions required by any party pursuant to Environmental Law or taken by a Governmental Body pursuant to any Environmental Law to (a) clean up, remove, treat or in any other way address Hazardous Materials in the indoor or outdoor environment;
(b) prevent the Release or threatened Release or minimize the further Release of Hazardous Materials; or (c) investigate and determine if a remedial response is needed and to design such a response and post-remedial investigation,
monitoring, operation and maintenance and care.         Representative    has the meaning specified in the
first paragraph of this Agreement.         Repurchase Option    has the meaning specified in
Section 2.1(g).         Requisite 280G Vote    has the meaning specified in Section 8.13.
        Restricted Party    has the meaning specified in Section 5.27(b).   
     Series A Preferred Stock    has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Agreement.   
     Series B Preferred Stock    has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Agreement.   
     Series C Preferred Stock    has the meaning specified in the recitals to this Agreement.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         79   

Shares    means the issued and outstanding shares of capital stock of
the Company (whether Company Common Stock or Company Preferred Stock).         Software    means computer
software programs and software systems, including all databases, compilations, tool sets, compilers, higher level or  proprietary  languages, related documentation and materials, whether in source code, object code or human readable form.
        Specified Representations    means the representations and warranties contained in Sections
 [*] .         SSA    means the United States Social Security Act, codified at Title 42, Chapter 7, of
the United States Code.         Stockholders    means the holders of Shares.   
     Straddle Period    means any taxable year or period beginning before and ending after the Effective Time.
        Surviving Corporation    has the meaning specified in Section 1.1.   
     Tax    (and, with correlative meaning,    Taxes    and    Taxable   )
means:      (a) any federal, state, local or foreign net income, gross income, gross receipts, premium, windfall profit,
severance, property, production, sales, use, license, excise, franchise, employment, payroll, withholding, alternative or add-on minimum, ad valorem, value-added, transfer, stamps or environmental (including taxes under Code Section 59A) tax,
or any other tax, custom, duty, governmental fee or other like assessment or charge of any kind whatsoever, together with any interest or penalty, addition to tax or additional amount imposed by any Governmental Body; and   
  (b) any liability of the Company for the payment of amounts with respect to payments of a type described in clause (a) as a result
of being a member of an affiliated, consolidated, combined or unitary group or as a result of any obligation of the Company under any Tax Sharing Arrangement or Tax indemnity arrangement.   
     Tax Return    means any return, report or similar statement required to be filed with respect to any Tax
(including any attached schedules), including any information return, claim for refund, amended return or declaration of estimated Tax.         Tax Sharing Arrangement    means any agreement or arrangement for the allocation or payment of Tax liabilities or payment for Tax benefits with respect to a consolidated, combined
or unitary Tax Return which Tax Return includes or has included the Company.         Termination Date    has
the meaning specified in Section 13.1(e).         Third Person    has the meaning specified in
Section 12.2(a).         Third-Person Claim    has the meaning specified in Section 12.2(a).
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         80   

Trademarks    means United States, state and foreign trademarks,
service marks, logos, trade dress, trade names, Internet domain names, whether registered or unregistered, and pending applications to register the foregoing.         Trade Secrets    means confidential ideas and information, trade secrets, know-how, concepts, methods, processes, formulae, reports, data, research and development results, customer
lists, mailing lists, business plans and other proprietary information.         Transaction Costs    has the
meaning specified in Section 14.7.         Transferred Employees    means all employees of the Company
who continue to be employed by the Company immediately after the Closing.         Transfer Taxes    means any
real property transfer or gains Tax, sales Tax, use Tax, stamp Tax, stock transfer Tax or other similar Tax and related fees (including notarial fees as well as any penalties, interest and additions to Tax) arising out of or imposed on the
transactions contemplated by this Agreement.         Transmittal Letter    has the meaning specified in
Section 3.1(a).         Unpaid Cost Amount    means an amount equal to the aggregate amount of any
Transaction Costs and Payables that (a) have been or will be incurred by the Company at or prior to the Effective Time, and (b) have not been and will not be, as of immediately prior to the Effective Time, paid by the Company.   
     U.S. GAAP    means the generally accepted accounting principles used in the United States of America, consistently
applied.         Unvested Share Award    has the meaning specified in Section 5.2(c)   
     Written Consent    has the meaning specified in Section 8.1(b).   
   *    *    *    *    *    *
   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         81   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed the
day and year first above written.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.     

By:   
     
    /s/ John F. Milligan    
 
    Name: John F. Milligan, Ph.D.    
 
    Title: President and Chief Operating Officer    

ARROYO MERGER SUB, INC.     

By:   
     
    /s/ Gregg H. Alton    
 
    Name: Gregg H. Alton    
 
    Title: Secretary     
   Signature Page to Agreement and Plan of Merger   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         82   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed the
day and year first above written.        

ARRESTO BIOSCIENCES, INC.     

By:   
     
    /s/ Peter Van Veasselaer    
 
    Name: Peter Van Veasselaer    
 
    Title: President   CEO     

  Signature Page to Agreement and Plan of Merger   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         83   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be executed the
day and year first above written.        

H EALTH C ARE  V ENTURES  VIII, L.P.    

By: HealthCare Partners VIII, L.P.  
  its General Partner    

By: HealthCare Partners VIII, LLC  
  its General Partner    

By:   
     
    /s/ Augustine Lawlor     

  Signature Page to Agreement and Plan of Merger   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

         84   

</EX-2.3>

<EX-10.7>
 3
 dex107.htm
 AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement 

Exhibit 10.7        AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT        AND LIMITED
CONSENT AND WAIVER        THIS AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT AND LIMITED CONSENT
AND WAIVER  (this   Amendment  ), dated as of June 3, 2009, is made by and among  GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. , a Delaware corporation (the   Parent  ),  GILEAD BIOPHARMACEUTICS IRELAND CORPORATION , an
Irish company (  Gilead Ireland  , Gilead Ireland together with the Parent are together referred to as the   Borrowers  , and each individually, as a   Borrower  ),  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , a
national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States (  Bank of America  ), in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the   Administrative Agent  ),
and each of the Lenders signatory hereto.        W I T N E S S E T H :    
   WHEREAS , the Borrowers, Bank of America, as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the Lenders have entered
into that Credit Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2007 (as hereby amended and as from time to time hereafter further amended, modified, supplemented, restated, or amended and restated, the   Credit Agreement   capitalized
terms used in this Amendment not otherwise defined herein shall have the respective meanings given thereto in the Credit Agreement), pursuant to which the Lenders have made available to Borrower a revolving credit facility with a swing line sublimit
and a letter of credit sublimit;       WHEREAS , as a condition to making the revolving credit facility available to the
Borrower the Lenders have required that the Parent guarantee payment of the Obligations of Gilead Ireland;     
   WHEREAS , on April 15, 2009 the Borrowers have informed the Administrative Agent that on April 15, 2009, Apex Merger Sub,
Inc. (the   Acquisition Sub  ), a Delaware corporation and a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Parent, completed a cash tender offer (the   Offer  ) for all of the outstanding shares of common stock of CV Therapeutics,
Inc. (  CV Therapeutics  ). On April 17, 2009, the Parent caused the Acquisition Sub to merge with and into CV Therapeutics, pursuant to which CV Therapeutics became a wholly-owned Subsidiary of the Parent, and all remaining
publicly held shares of common stock of CV Therapeutics (other than shares held by the Parent, the Acquisition Sub, CV Therapeutics or their respective Subsidiaries, or held in CV Therapeutics  treasury or by CV Therapeutics  stockholders
who properly preserve their appraisal rights under Delaware law) were converted into the right to receive certain cash compensation, without interest;       WHEREAS , CV Therapeutics issued (i) 2.0% Senior Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2023, dated as of June 18, 2003 (the   2023 Convertible Debentures  ), pursuant to
the Indenture between CV Therapeutics, as Issuer, and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee, dated as of June 18, 2003 (the   2003 Indenture  ), (ii) 2.75% Senior Convertible Subordinated Notes due
2012, dated as of May 18, 2004 (the   2012 Convertible Notes  ), pursuant to the Indenture between CV Therapeutics, as Issuer, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee, dated as of May 18, 2004 (the
  2004 Indenture  ), and (iii) 3.75% Senior Subordinated Convertible Notes due 2013 (the   2013 Convertible Notes  ,   

together with the 2023 Convertible Debentures and the 2012 Convertible Notes, the   Convertible Notes  )), dated July 1, 2005, pursuant to the Indenture, dated July 1,
2005 between CV Therapeutics, as Issuer, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee (the   2005 Indenture  , together with the 2003 Indenture and the 2004 Indenture, the   Indenture     
   WHEREAS , the Offer constituted a  Change of Control  under each of the Indentures and in each case triggered a right for
the holders of each of the Convertible Notes to require CV Therapeutics to repurchase the securities under the applicable Indenture (collectively such rights, the   Repurchase Rights     
   WHEREAS , the Repurchase Rights breached  Section 8.01(e)  of the Credit Agreement (the   Redemption
Default         WHEREAS ,  Section 7.10  of the Credit Agreement restricts the Borrowers from using the
proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, to purchase or carry margin stock (within the meaning of Regulation U of the FRB);       WHEREAS , the Parent breached  Section 7.10  by using proceeds from Credit Extensions to consummate the Offer (the   Proceeds Default  , together with the Redemption
Default, the   Existing Defaults         WHEREAS , the Borrowers have requested certain waivers, consents
and amendments under and to certain provisions of the Credit Agreement, and the Administrative Agent and the Lenders signatory hereto are willing to effect such waivers, consents and amendments, in each case as set forth below pursuant to the terms
and conditions contained in this Amendment.       NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the premises and further valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      1.
 Amendments to Credit Agreement . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:       

(a)  
  The following definition is added to  Section 1.01  in the appropriate alphabetical location therein:     
    Margin Stock   means  margin stock  as such term is defined in Regulation T, U or X of the FRB.

(b)  
   Section 5.14(a)  is deleted in its entirety and the following is inserted in lieu thereof.     
  (a) The Borrowers are not engaged and will not engage, principally or as one of their important activities, in the
business of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock, or extending credit for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock, and no proceeds of any Loans or drawings under any Letter of Credit will be used to purchase or carry any Margin Stock or to
extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock, except as   
         2   

permitted by  Section 7.10 . Following the application of the proceeds of each Borrowing or drawing under each Letter of Credit, not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the
value of the assets (either of a Borrower only or of the Parent and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis) subject to the provisions of  Section 7.01 ,  Section 7.04 ,  Section 7.05  or  Section 7.07  or
subject to any restriction contained in any agreement or instrument between a Borrower and any Lender or any Affiliate of any Lender relating to Indebtedness and within the scope of  Section 8.01(e)  will be Margin Stock.   

(c)  
   Section 7.10  is deleted in its entirety and the following is inserted in lieu thereof.     
   7.10 Use of Proceeds . Use the proceeds of any Credit Extension, whether directly or indirectly, and whether
immediately, incidentally or ultimately, to purchase or carry Margin Stock or to extend credit to others for the purpose of purchasing or carrying Margin Stock or to refund indebtedness originally incurred for such purpose;  provided , however,
the Borrowers may use the proceeds of Credit Extensions to purchase or carry Margin Stock so long as (i) either (x) the Margin Stock so acquired is promptly retired following the purchase or other acquisition thereof or (y) at all
times and after giving effect to each such purchase or acquisition, not more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total assets either of a Borrower only or of the Parent and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis are represented by Margin
Stock owned by the Parent and its Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis and (ii) such purchase or acquisition is not for the purpose of speculation.      2.  Limited Waiver . Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, and in reliance upon the representations and warranties of the Borrowers made herein, the Administrative Agent and the
Lenders signatory hereto hereby waive the Existing Defaults.      The waiver set forth in this  Section 2  is limited to the extent
specifically set forth above and no other terms, covenants or provisions of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Document are intended to be affected hereby.      3.  Effectiveness; Conditions Precedent . The effectiveness of this Amendment and the amendments to the Credit Agreement herein provided are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions
precedent (the first date on which all such conditions have been satisfied shall be referred to as the   First Amendment Effective Date  ):       

(a)  
  the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents or instruments in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent:

(i)  
  counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed by each of the Borrowers, the Parent in its capacity as a guarantor, the Administrative Agent, and the Required Lenders;
and         

(ii)  
  such other certificates, instruments and documents as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request;     
         3   

(b)  
  the Borrowers shall have paid to each Lender that signs this Amendment on or before the First Amendment Effective Date a fee of $10,000, which fee shall be fully earned
and due on the First Amendment Effective Date and shall be nonrefundable; and         

(c)  
  unless waived by the Administrative Agent, all fees and expenses payable to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (including the fees and expenses of counsel to the
Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to the date hereof) estimated to date shall have been paid in full (without prejudice to final settling of accounts for such fees and expenses).     
  4.  Consent and Confirmation of the Parent . The Parent hereby consents, acknowledges and agrees to the amendments set forth herein
and hereby confirms and ratifies in all respects the Parent Guaranty Agreement (including without limitation the continuation of the Parent s payment and performance obligations thereunder upon and after the effectiveness of this Amendment and
the amendments contemplated hereby) and the enforceability of the Parent Guaranty against the Parent in accordance with its terms.      5.  Representations and Warranties . In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Amendment, each Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and
the Lenders as follows:       

(a)  
  The representations and warranties contained in  Article V  of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Documents, or which are contained in any document furnished
at any time under or in connection with the Credit Agreement or such other Loan Document, are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, (i) except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically
refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and (ii) except that the representations and warranties contained in subsections  (a)  and  (b)  of
 Section 5.05  of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses  (a)  and  (b) , respectively, of  Section 6.01  of the Credit Agreement;

(b)  
  The Persons appearing as guarantor on the signature pages to this Amendment constitute all Persons who are required to be guarantors pursuant to the terms of the Credit
Agreement and the other Loan Documents;         

(c)  
  This Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Borrowers and the Parent, as guarantor, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of
such parties, except as may be limited by general principles of equity or by the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors  rights generally; and     

(d)  
  After giving effect to this Amendment, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.     
         4   

6.  Release . In consideration of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders
entering into this Amendment on behalf of the Lenders, the Borrowers hereby release the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each of the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent s, the L/C Issuer s and each of the Lender s respective
officers, employees, representatives, agents, counsel and directors from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, demands, damages and liabilities of whatever kind or nature, in law or in equity, now known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected
to the extent that any of the foregoing arises from any action or failure to act solely in connection with the Loan Documents on or prior to the date hereof.      7.  Entire Agreement . This Amendment, together with the Loan Documents (collectively, the   Relevant Documents  ), sets forth the entire understanding and agreement of the parties
hereto in relation to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations and agreements among the parties relating to such subject matter. No promise, condition, representation or warranty, express or implied, not set forth in the
Relevant Documents shall bind any party hereto, and no such party has relied on any such promise, condition, representation or warranty. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges that, except as otherwise expressly stated in the Relevant Documents, no
representations, warranties or commitments, express or implied, have been made by any party to the other in relation to the subject matter hereof or thereof. None of the terms or conditions of this Amendment may be changed, modified, waived or
canceled orally or otherwise, except in writing and in accordance with  Section 10.01  of the Credit Agreement.      8.
 Full Force and Effect of Amendment . Except as hereby specifically amended, modified or supplemented, the Credit Agreement and all other Loan Documents are hereby confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and
effect according to their respective terms.      9.  Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed in any number of
counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall together constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this
Amendment by telecopy, facsimile or other electronic transmission (including .PDF) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Amendment.      10.  Governing Law . This Amendment shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.   
  11.  Enforceability . Should any one or more of the provisions of this Amendment be determined to be illegal or unenforceable as to
one or more of the parties hereto, all other provisions nevertheless shall remain effective and binding on the parties hereto.   
  12.  References . All references in any of the Loan Documents to the  Credit Agreement  shall mean the Credit Agreement,
as amended hereby.      13.  Successors and Assigns . This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and their respective successors   
         5   

and assignees to the extent such assignees are permitted assignees as provided in  Section 10.06  of the Credit Agreement.   
   [Signature pages follow.]    
         6   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be made,
executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.,  as a Borrower   

By:  
     
    /s/ Robin Washington    
 
  Name:  
     
       Robin Washington   
 
  Title:  
     
       Senior Vice President and CFO   

GILEAD BIOPHARMACEUTICS IRELAND CORPORATION,  as a Borrower   

By:  
     
    /s/ John F. Milligan    
 
  Name:  
     
       John F. Milligan, PhD   
 
  Title:  
     
       Director   

By:  
     
    /s/ Gregg H. Alton    
 
  Name:  
     
       Gregg H. Alton   
 
  Title:  
     
       Director   

GUARANTOR:     

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.,  as a guarantor of Gilead Ireland   

By:  
     
    /s/ Robin Washington    
 
  Name:  
     
       Robin Washington   
 
  Title:  
     
       Senior Vice President and CFO    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT :    

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as Administrative Agent    

By:  
     
    /s/ Dora A. Brown    
 
  Name:  
     
       Dora A. Brown   
 
  Title:  
     
       Vice President    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as a Lender, L/C Issuer and Swing Line Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ John C. Plecque    
 
  Name:  
     
       John C. Plecque   
 
  Title:  
     
       Senior Vice President    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

CITIBANK, N.A. , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ Henry H. Schwake    
 
  Name:  
     
         Henry H. Schwake    
 
  Title:  
     
         Managing Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ Frederick W. Laird    
 
  Name:  
     
         Frederick W. Laird    
 
  Title:  
     
         Managing Director    

By:  
     
    /s/ Ming K. Chu    
 
  Name:  
     
         Ming K. Chu    
 
  Title:  
     
         Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A. , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ Phil Schapiro    
 
  Name:  
     
         Phil Schapiro    
 
  Title:  
     
    AVP/Credit Relationship Manager     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD. , as a Lender    

By:   
     
    /s/ Raymond Ventura     

Name:   

Raymond Ventura     

Title:   
     
    Deputy General Manager     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

BARCLAYS BANK PLC , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ Nicholas A. Bell     

Name:   
     
    Nicholas A. Bell     

Title:  
     
    Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. , as a Lender     

By:   
     
    /s/ Barbara R. Marks     

Name:    
     
    Barbara R. Marks     

Title:   
     
    Executive Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

MORGAN STANLEY BANK , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ S.E. Saxe     

Name:   
     
    S.E. Saxe     

Title:  
     
    SCO     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

CREDIT SUISSE,  Cayman Islands Branch, as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ Karim Blasetti     

Name:   
     
    Karim Blasetti     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

By:  
     
    /s/ Karl Studer     

Name:   
     
    Karl Studer     

Title:  
     
    Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ Richard J. Ameny, Jr.     

Name:   
     
    Richard J. Ameny     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL       ASSOCIATION , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Jason Huck     

Name:   
     
    Jason Huck     

Title:  
     
    Vice President, Relationship Manager     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

MERRILL LYNCH BANK USA , as a Lender   

By:  
     
    /s/ David Millett     

Name:   
     
    David Millett     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement and
Limited Consent and Waiver      Signature Page   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 4
 dex108.htm
 AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT

Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement 

Exhibit 10.8        AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT        THIS
AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO AMENDED AND RESTATED CREDIT AGREEMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT  (this   Amendment  ), dated as of December 22, 2010, is made by and among  GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. , a Delaware corporation (the
  Parent  ),  GILEAD BIOPHARMACEUTICS IRELAND CORPORATION , an Irish company (  Gilead Ireland  , Gilead Ireland together with the Parent are together referred to as the   Borrowers  , and each
individually, as a   Borrower  ),  BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , a national banking association organized and existing under the laws of the United States (  Bank of America  ), in its capacity as administrative agent
for the Lenders (in such capacity, the   Administrative Agent  ), and each of the Lenders signatory hereto.   
    W I T N E S S E T H :        WHEREAS , the Borrowers, Bank of America, as Administrative Agent, Swing Line Lender and L/C Issuer, and the Lenders have entered into that Credit Agreement, dated as of December 18, 2007 (as
previously amended, as hereby amended and as from time to time hereafter further amended, modified, supplemented, restated, or amended and restated, the   Credit Agreement   capitalized terms used in this Amendment not otherwise
defined herein shall have the respective meanings given thereto in the Credit Agreement), pursuant to which the Lenders have made available to Borrower a revolving credit facility with a swing line sublimit and a letter of credit sublimit;
      WHEREAS , as a condition to making the revolving credit facility available to the Borrower the Lenders have required
that the Parent guarantee payment of the Obligations of Gilead Ireland;         WHEREAS , the Borrowers have requested
amendments to certain provisions of the Credit Agreement as set forth in  Section 1  below, and       WHEREAS , the
Administrative Agent and the Lenders signatory hereto are willing to effect such waivers, consents and amendments, in each case as set forth below pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in this Amendment.   
   NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the premises and further valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is
hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:      1.  Amendments to Credit Agreement . Subject to the terms and
conditions set forth herein, the Credit Agreement is hereby amended as follows:       

(a)  
   Section 2.03(a)(i)  is hereby amended by inserting  or extend  in the fifth line thereof immediately after  amend  and before
 Letters of Credit .         

(b)  
   Section 2.03(a)(ii)(A)  is hereby amended by inserting (i)  subject to  Section 2.03(b)(iv),   in the first line thereof immediately
after  (A)  and (ii)  or extension  in the second line thereof immediately after  renewal .     

(c)  
  A new  clause (iv)  is added to  Section 2.03(b)  which reads as follows:     
  (iv) If a Borrower so requests in any applicable Letter of Credit Application, the L/C Issuer may, in its sole discretion,
agree to issue a Letter of Credit that has automatic extension provisions (each, an   Auto-Extension   Letter of Credit    provided  that any such Auto-Extension Letter of Credit must permit the L/C Issuer to prevent any
such extension at least once in each twelve-month period (commencing with the date of issuance of such Letter of Credit) by giving prior notice to the beneficiary thereof not later than a day (the   Non-Extension Notice Date  ) in
each such twelve-month period to be agreed upon at the time such Letter of Credit is issued. Unless otherwise directed by the L/C Issuer, the applicable Borrower shall not be required to make a specific request to the L/C Issuer for any such
automatic extension. Once an Auto-Extension Letter of Credit has been issued, the Lenders shall be deemed to have authorized (but may not require) the L/C Issuer to permit the extension of such Letter of Credit at any time to an expiry date not
later than the Letter of Credit Expiration Date;  provided ,  however , that the L/C Issuer shall not permit any such extension if (A) the L/C Issuer has determined that it would not be permitted, or would have no obligation, at such
time to issue such Letter of Credit in its revised form (as extended) under the terms hereof (by reason of the provisions of clause (ii) or (iii) of  Section 2.03(a)  or otherwise), or (B) it has received notice (which may
be by telephone or in writing) on or before the day that is seven Business Days before the Non-Extension Notice Date (1) from the Administrative Agent that the Required Lenders have elected not to permit such extension or (2) from the
Administrative Agent, any Lender or the applicable Borrower that one or more of the applicable conditions specified in  Section 4.02  is not then satisfied, and in each such case directing the L/C Issuer not to permit such extension;
 provided ,  however , that the parties agrees that clauses (A) and (B) above set forth the only circumstances under which the L/C Issuer may not permit any such extension.   

(d)  
   Section 7.09  is deleted in its entirety and the following is inserted in lieu thereof.     
   7.09 Burdensome Agreements.  Enter into any contractual obligation (other than this Agreement or any other Loan
Document) that (a) limits the ability (i) of any Subsidiary to make Restricted Payments to either Borrower or otherwise transfer property to either Borrower, (ii) of any Subsidiary to Guarantee the Indebtedness of the Borrowers or
(iii) of the Borrowers or any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or suffer to exist Liens on property of such Person;  provided ,  however , that the foregoing shall not apply to (A) restrictions and conditions existing on
Second Amendment Effective Date (or any extension, renewal, amendment or modification thereof), (B) any contractual obligation of a Person which becomes a Subsidiary after the Closing Date;  provided  that such contractual obligation is
only binding upon such Subsidiary and such contractual obligation was in existence at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary, (but shall apply to any extension or renewal of, or any amendment or modification expanding the scope of, any such
restriction or condition), (C) restrictions and conditions imposed by any agreement or document governing or evidencing any other Indebtedness, Swap Contract or other obligation of a Borrower or any Subsidiary permitted hereunder, so
  
         2   

long as such documentation does not contain any covenant expressly limiting the ability of either Borrower or its Subsidiaries to enter into contractual obligations of the type described in the
foregoing  clauses (i)  through  (iii)  that is materially more restrictive on the Borrowers and its subsidiaries than this  Section 7.09 , (D) restrictions in such Person s organizational documents or
pursuant to any joint venture agreement or equity holder s agreement, (E) any restrictions with respect to a Subsidiary imposed pursuant to an agreement which has been entered into in connection with a Disposition, (F) any negative
pledge incurred or provided in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted hereunder solely to the extent any such negative pledge relates to the property financed by or the subject of such Indebtedness, (G) any negative pledge incurred or
provided in favor a financial institution with respect to deposit or other account pooling agreements, cash management agreements and similar arrangements, so long as such negative pledge relates only to the deposit accounts subject to such
agreement, and (z) apply to customary provisions in leases and other contracts restricting the assignment, pledge or mortgage thereof.      2.  Effectiveness; Conditions Precedent . The effectiveness of this Amendment and the amendments to the Credit Agreement herein provided are subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions
precedent (the first date on which all such conditions have been satisfied shall be referred to as the   Second Amendment Effective Date  ):       

(a)  
  the Administrative Agent shall have received each of the following documents or instruments in form and substance reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent:

(i)  
  counterparts of this Amendment, duly executed by each of the Borrowers, the Parent in its capacity as a guarantor, the Administrative Agent, and the Required Lenders;
and         

(ii)  
  such other certificates, instruments and documents as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request;     

(b)  
  the Borrowers shall have paid to each Lender that signs this Amendment on or before the Second Amendment Effective Date a fee of $10,000, which fee shall be fully
earned and due on the Second Amendment Effective Date and shall be nonrefundable; and         

(c)  
  unless waived by the Administrative Agent, all fees and expenses payable to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders (including the reasonable fees and expenses of
counsel to the Administrative Agent to the extent invoiced prior to the date hereof) estimated to date shall have been paid in full (without prejudice to final settling of accounts for such fees and expenses).     
         3   

3.  Consent and Confirmation of the Parent . The Parent hereby consents, acknowledges
and agrees to the amendments set forth herein and hereby confirms and ratifies in all respects the Parent Guaranty Agreement (including without limitation the continuation of the Parent s payment and performance obligations thereunder upon and
after the effectiveness of this Amendment and the amendments contemplated hereby) and the enforceability of the Parent Guaranty against the Parent in accordance with its terms.   
  4.  Representations and Warranties . In order to induce the Administrative Agent and the Lenders to enter into this Amendment, each
Borrower represents and warrants to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders as follows:       

(a)  
  The representations and warranties contained in  Article V  of the Credit Agreement or any other Loan Documents, or which are contained in any document furnished
at any time under or in connection with the Credit Agreement or such other Loan Document, are true and correct in all material respects on and as of the date hereof, (i) except to the extent that such representations and warranties specifically
refer to an earlier date, in which case they are true and correct in all material respects as of such earlier date, and (ii) except that the representations and warranties contained in subsections  (a)  and  (b)  of
 Section 5.05  of the Credit Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the most recent statements furnished pursuant to clauses  (a)  and  (b) , respectively, of  Section 6.01  of the Credit Agreement;

(b)  
  The Persons appearing as guarantor on the signature pages to this Amendment constitute all Persons who are required to be guarantors pursuant to the terms of the Credit
Agreement and the other Loan Documents;         

(c)  
  This Amendment has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by the Borrowers and the Parent, as guarantor, and constitutes a legal, valid and binding obligation of
such parties, except as may be limited by general principles of equity or by the effect of any applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar law affecting creditors  rights generally; and     

(d)  
  After giving effect to this Amendment, no Default or Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.     
  5.  Release . In consideration of the Administrative Agent and the Required Lenders entering into this Amendment on behalf of the
Lenders, the Borrowers hereby release the Administrative Agent, the L/C Issuer, each of the Lenders, and the Administrative Agent s, the L/C Issuer s and each of the Lender s respective officers, employees, representatives, agents,
counsel and directors from any and all actions, causes of action, claims, demands, damages and liabilities of whatever kind or nature, in law or in equity, now known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected to the extent that any of the foregoing arises
from any action or failure to act solely in connection with the Loan Documents on or prior to the date hereof.      6.  Entire
Agreement . This Amendment, together with the Loan Documents (collectively, the   Relevant Documents  ), sets forth the entire understanding and agreement of   
         4   

the parties hereto in relation to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any prior negotiations and agreements among the parties relating to such subject matter. No promise, condition,
representation or warranty, express or implied, not set forth in the Relevant Documents shall bind any party hereto, and no such party has relied on any such promise, condition, representation or warranty. Each of the parties hereto acknowledges
that, except as otherwise expressly stated in the Relevant Documents, no representations, warranties or commitments, express or implied, have been made by any party to the other in relation to the subject matter hereof or thereof. None of the terms
or conditions of this Amendment may be changed, modified, waived or canceled orally or otherwise, except in writing and in accordance with  Section 10.01  of the Credit Agreement.   
  7.  Full Force and Effect of Amendment . Except as hereby specifically amended, modified or supplemented, the Credit Agreement and
all other Loan Documents are hereby confirmed and ratified in all respects and shall be and remain in full force and effect according to their respective terms.      8.  Counterparts . This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original as against any party whose signature appears thereon, and all of which shall
together constitute one and the same instrument. Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Amendment by telecopy, facsimile or other electronic transmission (including .PDF) shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed
counterpart of this Amendment.      9.  Governing Law . This Amendment shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in
accordance with, the laws of the State of New York.      10.  Enforceability . Should any one or more of the provisions of
this Amendment be determined to be illegal or unenforceable as to one or more of the parties hereto, all other provisions nevertheless shall remain effective and binding on the parties hereto.   
  11.  References . All references in any of the Loan Documents to the  Credit Agreement  shall mean the Credit Agreement,
as amended hereby.      12.  Successors and Assigns . This Amendment shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the
Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Lenders and their respective successors and assignees to the extent such assignees are permitted assignees as provided in  Section 10.06  of the Credit Agreement.   
   [Signature pages follow.]    
         5   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto have caused this instrument to be made,
executed and delivered by their duly authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.        

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.,  as a Borrower   

By:  
     
    /s/ John F. Milligan     

Name:  
     
  John F. Milligan, PhD   
 
  Title:  
     
  President and Chief Operating Officer   

GILEAD BIOPHARMACEUTICS IRELAND   CORPORATION , as a Borrower    

By:  
     
    /s/ John F. Milligan     

Name:  
     
  John F. Milligan, PhD   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director    

By:  
     
    /s/ Gregg H. Alton     

Name:  
     
  Gregg H. Alton   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director   

GUARANTOR:      

GILEAD SCIENCES, INC. , as a guarantor of Gilead Ireland   

By:  
     
    / S / John F. Milligan     

Name:  
     
  John F. Milligan, PhD   
 
  Title:  
     
  President and Chief Operating Officer    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

ADMINISTRATIVE AGENT  :   

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as Administrative   Agent    

By:  
     
    /s/ Dora A. Brown     

Name:  
     
   Dora A. Brown   
 
  Title:  
     
  Vice President    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

BANK OF AMERICA, N.A. , as a Lender, L/C     Issuer and Swing Line Lender     

By:  
     
    /s/ John C. Plecque     

Name:  
     
   John C. Plecque   
 
  Title:  
     
  Senior Vice President    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

THE ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND N.V.        (FORMERLY ABN AMRO BANK N.V.) , as a Lender     

By:  
     
    /s/ William McGinty     

Name:  
     
   William McGinty   
 
  Title:  
     
  Director    

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

CITIBANK, N.A. , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Henry H. Schwake     

Name:  
     
     Henry H. Schwake     

Title:  
     
    Managing Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Frederick W. Laird     

Name:   
     
    Frederick W. Laird     

Title:  
     
    Managing Director     

By:  
     
    /s/ Ming K. Chu     

Name:   
     
    Ming K. Chu     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

WELLS FARGO BANK, N.A. , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Matthew Burke     

Name:   
     
    Matthew Burke     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

MIZUHO CORPORATE BANK, LTD. , as a     Lender     

By:  
     
    /s/ Bertram H. Tang     

Name:   
     
    Bertram H. Tang     

Title:  
     
    Authorized Signatory     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

KEYBANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Thomas J. Purcell     

Name:   
     
    Thomas J. Purcell     

Title:  
     
    Senior Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

BARCLAYS BANK PLC , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ David Barton     

Name:   
     
    David Barton     

Title:  
     
    Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A. , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Vanessa Chiu     

Name:   
     
    Vanessa Chiu     

Title:  
     
    Executive Director     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

MORGAN STANLEY BANK , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Agata Marczak     

Name:   
     
    Agata Marczak     

Title:  
     
    Authorized Signatory     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Lauren Day     

Name:   
     
    Lauren Day     

Title:  
     
    Authorized Signatory     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

CREDIT SUISSE AG,  Cayman Islands Branch [formerly  CREDIT SUISSE,  Cayman Islands Branch], as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Ari Bruger     

Name:   
     
    Ari Bruger     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

By:  
     
    /s/ Rahul Parmer     

Name:   
     
    Rahul Parmer     

Title:  
     
    Associate     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

U.S. BANK NATIONAL ASSOCIATION , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ David C. Mruk     

Name:   
     
    David C. Mruk     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

HSBC BANK USA, NATIONAL       ASSOCIATION , as a Lender     

By:  
     
    /s/ Jason A. Huck     

Name:  
     
    Jason Huck     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

INTESA SANPAOLO S.P.A. , as a Lender    

By:  
     
    /s/ Luca Sacchi     

Name:   
     
    Lucca Sacchi     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

By:  
     
    /s/ Frank Maffei     

Name:   
     
    Frank Maffei     

Title:  
     
    Vice President     

         Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation      Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit Agreement

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.90>
 5
 dex1090.htm
 TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL FUMARATE MANUFACTURING SUPPLY AGREEMENT

Tenofovir Disoproxil Fumarate Manufacturing Supply Agreement 

Exhibit 10.90        GILEAD SCIENCES LIMITED.-AMPAC FINE CHEMICALS LLC        TENOFOVIR DISOPROXIL
FUMARATE MANUFACTURING SUPPLY AGREEMENT       T HE  P ARTIES  H EREBY  A CKNOWLEDGE 
A ND  A GREE  T HE  F OLLOWING :      THIS SUPPLY AGREEMENT (  Agreement  ) is
entered into as of November 3, 2010 (  Effective Date  ), by and between Ampac Fine Chemicals LLC, a California limited liability company (  AFC  ) having its principal place of business at Highway 50  
Hazel Avenue, Rancho Cordova, CA 95670, and a mailing address of P.O. Box 1718, Rancho Cordova, CA 95741, and Gilead Sciences Limited, an Irish limited company (  GSL  ), having its principal place of business at Unit 13, Stillorgan
Industrial Park, Blackrock, Co. Dublin, Ireland. AFC and GSL may be referred to individually as a   Party   and collectively as the   Parties   in this Agreement.   
  WHEREAS, AFC is a known manufacturer of active pharmaceutical ingredients with expertise in cGMP manufacturing, and GSL and its designees
manufacture and market pharmaceutical products for human use.      WHEREAS, AFC and GSL desire to establish mutually agreeable
terms for the commercial supply of bulk tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (  Product  ) as an active pharmaceutical ingredient by AFC to GSL.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of (i) AFC s agreement to manufacture and supply Product to GSL for the monetary amounts set forth in this Agreement; (ii) the promises, covenants,
agreements and other valuable consideration hereinafter set forth, and intending to be legally bound, the Parties hereby agree:       1.
AGREEMENT ACCEPTANCE:  AFC has read and understands these terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement (these   terms  ) and understands that AFC s written acceptance or delivery of any Product under these terms shall
constitute AFC s acceptance of these terms. All terms and conditions proposed by AFC which are different from or in addition to these terms and are not agreed to in writing by GSL are expressly rejected by GSL, and shall not become a part of
these terms. GSL has read and understands these terms and shall purchase the Product manufactured by AFC and pay for the supply of the Product in accordance with the terms and provisions of these terms. Any modifications to these terms shall, prior
to their implementation, be mutually agreed upon by the Parties hereto and shall be made in accordance with Section 28.      Neither the
General Sales Conditions of AFC nor the General Purchase Conditions of GSL shall apply to the supply of the Product by AFC to GSL pursuant to these terms.       2. TERM:  The term of this Agreement shall begin as of the Effective Date, and shall remain in effect until December 31, 2013 (the   Initial Term  ) unless earlier terminated
according to Section 13  Termination  of this Agreement.       
   [*] = CERTAIN CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT
TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

3. SUPPLY:  During the term of this Agreement, AFC will manufacture Product for GSL for use in
manufacture of Finished Product (as defined in Section 4 below). During the term of this Agreement, AFC is obligated to manufacture Product at the location and in the quantities set forth herein. AFC will not manufacture or supply Product to
any person or entity other than GSL without GSL s prior written consent.       

a)  
   Facility : AFC will manufacture the Product for GSL only at its facility located at Rancho Cordova, CA, or such other facilities as the Parties agree to in
writing (collectively, the   Facility  ). GSL has inspected the Facility and has acknowledged, based upon information in its possession as of the Effective Date, that the Facility appears to be appropriate for the purposes of
manufacturing the Products.         

b)  
   Minimum Quantities:  During the Initial Term and any renewal term GSL will purchase and AFC will deliver at least the quantities of Product set forth in Exhibit
A. Failure in any year by GSL to purchase the required quantities will result in  [*]  an amount equal to the  [*] , the invoice for which will be  [  *  ] , and such invoice shall be  [*] . For clarity, GSL s
failure to satisfy minimum purchase requirements due to Regulatory Terminations (as defined in Section 13(c) below) shall not be deemed to be breaches by GSL of GSL s obligations under this Section 3(b).     

c)  
   Forecasting:  Prior to  [*]  of  [*] , GSL shall provide to AFC a  [*]  for the  [*] . Such GSL Purchase Order shall detail the  [*] ,
and shall be  [*] .         

d)  
   Acceptance:  AFC will respond in writing to each purchase order received from GSL (  GSL Purchase Order  ) within  [*]  calendar days of
receipt. The response shall include AFC s inability to comply with, or confirmation of the delivery dates and quantities set forth in the GSL Purchase Order.     

e)  
   Failure to Supply:  If AFC is unable to supply sufficient quantities of the Product to meet its minimum obligations under Section 3(b), or should either
Party perceive that a shortfall (according to the definition of shortfall in Section 3(f)) in delivery of Product by AFC is likely to occur for any reason, the Parties  will   [*] . GSL will have the right  [*]  or  [*] .
Any quantities  [*]  to meet such a shortfall shall be  [*] . If GSL must  [*] , AFC shall be liable for  [*] . Repeated shortfalls may be considered a material breach of this Agreement, as described in Section 13 of this
Agreement.         

f)  
   Delay:  If release and/or shipment of any quantity is delayed after AFC has accepted an order, through the fault of AFC, by more than  [*]  days
 [ * ] , the quantity shall be considered a shortfall, and treated as above in Section 3(e). If such delay is caused by the fault of GSL, GSL will make  [*]  to remediate the fault  [*] , however, after ( [*] ) days
from the date of expected release and/or shipment, AFC shall be entitled to issue the relevant invoice(s) in any case.         

g)  
     Successful Close-out:  GSL acknowledges that AFC received a Warning Letter from
     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

the FDA on June 25, 2010 in association with a Form FDA 483 received in February 2010 (the   Warning Letter  ).   AFC agrees to use its reasonable best efforts to
remediate the deficiencies identified by the FDA in a timely manner. AFC will either (i) provide Gilead with a copy of the close-out letter received from the FDA following the FDA s re-inspection indicating the FDA s satisfaction with
the corrective actions taken by AFC in response to the Warning Letter, or (ii) following such re-inspection by the FDA provide Gilead with a written certification signed by a senior officer of AFC that it has satisfied the concerns raised by
the FDA pursuant to the Warning Letter. Once Gilead has received either a copy of such close-out letter or such written certification, Gilead will acknowledge such event as a   Successful Close-out   .  If a  Successful
Close-out  is not achieved by AFC following the FDA s re-inspection, GSL will have the option to issue a  Regulatory Termination  in accordance with Section 13(c) below with the exception that the thirty (30) day notice period
shall not apply, and at GSL s discretion this may be considered an Adverse Event per Section 17.          4. GOOD
MANUFACTURING PRACTICES:  AFC expressly warrants that all Product covered by these terms have been manufactured in accordance with current good manufacturing practices (  cGMP  ) as established by the United States Food and Drug
Administration (the   FDA  ) for the manufacture of pharmaceutical materials, as well as other applicable rules and regulations of the FDA and other governmental or regulatory agencies of United States or other countries where
finished pharmaceutical products of GSL incorporating the Product (collectively, the   Finished Products  )    are    marketed with jurisdiction over the manufacture, use, or sale of Product, as then in effect. Each
party shall promptly notify the other of any new instructions or specifications required by the FDA, the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, the Federal Public Health Service Act or other applicable regulations of the United States and/or other
countries where the Finished Products are marketed, and shall confer with each other with respect to the best means to comply with such requirements and shall allocate any costs of implementing such changes on an equitable basis. Upon written
request of GSL, AFC will permit representatives of GSL to observe such manufacture, or any government inspection of AFC s manufacturing process for the Products covered by these terms, at mutually agreeable times and AFC shall permit GSL to
inspect copies of AFC s manufacturing records, including its batch records, for the purposes of assuring product quality and compliance with agreed-upon manufacturing procedures.         5. MANUFACTURING PROCESS:  GSL shall make available to AFC,  [ * ] , all such know-how, information, and technical assistance if needed by AFC so as to allow AFC to manufacture Product
with utmost efficiency and to the standard of GSL as will be more precisely described by GSL in writing to AFC before the start of manufacturing of the Product. AFC shall manufacture the Product in conformance with the relevant specifications, as
then in effect (the   Specifications  ) and according to the manufacturing process description as set forth in the Gilead Sciences Tenofovir DF Contract Manufacturing Manual dated June 6, 2000, and as thereafter amended (the
  Contract Manufacturing Manual  ).     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

6. RAW MATERIALS:  Raw materials used in the manufacture of Product will conform to the specifications
set forth in the Contract Manufacturing Manual (the   Raw Material Specifications )  and such conformance will be verified in accordance with the testing standards and procedures specified therein. AFC agrees that it will facilitate
changes to the Raw Material Specifications that are necessary or appropriate in light of FDA or other regulatory requirements. AFC shall not be liable hereunder if the raw materials meet the Raw Material Specifications and the Product fails to meet
the Specifications because the Raw Material Specifications are inadequate.         7. CHANGE IN MANUFACTURING PROCESS:  AFC shall obtain
GSL s prior written approval, per the Quality Agreement (August 1, 2010), before implementing any planned change in the materials, equipment, process, or procedures used to manufacture the Product that would constitute a major change under
cGMP, or that would constitute noncompliance with the manufacturing process set forth in the Contract Manufacturing Manual. AFC shall disclose all proposed changes in such manufacturing materials, equipment, process, or procedure to GSL at a level
sufficient to allow GSL to practice such changed manufacturing process. GSL shall notify AFC of any change in the materials, equipment, process, analytical methods, specifications, or procedures to be used in the manufacture of the Product in
writing, by means of timely updates to the Contract Manufacturing Manual, identical copies of which reside at AFC and GSL. AFC shall provide GSL with an authentic copy of the current master batch record for the preparation of the Product. The cost
of implementing any amendment or change of whatever nature to the procedures described in the Contract Manufacturing Manual, as well as any extra costs resulting from the implementation of such change, shall be borne by  [*] . However, the
Parties recognize the pricing agreed in Exhibit A reflect implementation of the process developed by AFC and GSL during 2009-2010, which, at the time of this agreement, is not represented in the Contract Manufacturing Manual.     
   8. PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS:        

a)  
   [*]  agrees to communicate to  [*]  any idea and substantial improvement made by  [*]  arising from  [*]  under the following conditions:
(i) all rights and title to improvements (patented or unpatentable) which are related to the  [*]  shall be assigned to  [*] , which shall have only the right to utilize such improvements in the manufacture of the Product;
(ii) all rights and title to improvements (patented or unpatentable) which apply to the  [*] , and provided that  [*] , is not contained in said improvements, shall be assigned to  [*] , which shall have only the right to utilize
such improvements in the process of the Product; (iii) a royalty-free worldwide exclusive license  [*]  shall be granted by  [*]  to  [*]  for improvements (patented or unpatentable) related to said processing  [*] ;
(iv) in the event that  [*]  contracts out the manufacture of the Product to any third party, any improvement made by  [*]  hereunder may be disclosed to such contract manufacturer but rights to use the same shall be restricted to the
manufacture of the Product and the Parties hereto will  [*] .         

b)  
    The Parties recognize the process changes under development by AFC and GSL for piloting and validation in 2010. All rights to said improvement shall be
passed to  [*] , in      
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

accordance with the provisions of Section 8(a), (i) through (iii), above. The Parties confirm no further remuneration shall be sought by  [ * ]  under Section 8(a)(iv)
above. AFC will produce a development report describing such revised process to be provided to GSL prior to commercial scale validation of such process. Further, AFC shall provide to GSL necessary assistance in support of technology transfer to one
Gilead Sciences, Inc.-owned facility, which may include teleconferences, meetings, and chemistry support during the initial commercial campaign.          9. QUALITY CONTROL SAMPLE AND DOCUMENTATION:  Manufacture of the Product shall at all times be in strict conformance with the Specifications and such conformance will be verified in accordance with
the testing procedures, specified herein. Prior to the delivery of any batch of Product, AFC shall provide GSL with (i) a quality control sample of such batch to be held by GSL for analytical reference, (ii) written confirmation that the
batch records for such batch have been reviewed and approved by AFC s quality assurance unit (Certificate of Compliance), and (iii) a Certificate of Analysis confirming that such batch meets Specifications. No delivery of the Product shall
be made until GSL accepts the material in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 10.       10. BATCH ACCEPTANCE AND REJECTION:  GSL
shall have the right without penalty to cancel delivery of an entire batch of Product at any time within  [*]  days after receipt of the applicable Certificate of Compliance and Certificate of Analysis (the  Acceptance Period ). Title
and risk of loss for each batch of Product shall pass to GSL upon  [*] . If no such notice of rejection is received, GSL shall be deemed to have accepted the batch of Product upon the expiration of Acceptance Period. Either GSL s written
acceptance of the batch or expiration of the Acceptance Period shall result in GSL assuming title and risk of loss for related batch. AFC shall be authorized to make delivery of the full batch upon GSL s acceptance of the batch, pending receipt
of specific delivery instructions from GSL. AFC represents and warrants that the Product delivered to the destination specified by GSL shall comply with the Specifications for the Product. Any contestation of the quantity of Product delivered to the
destination specified by GSL or the related documentation must be made in writing to AFC within  [*]  days from receipt thereof by GSL or an agent of GSL. GSL and AFC shall  [*]  or  [*] , as appropriate. After notice of rejection is
given, GSL shall cooperate with AFC in determining whether rejection is necessary or justified. AFC will evaluate process issues and other reasons for such non-compliance. AFC shall notify GSL as promptly as reasonably possible whether it accepts
GSL s basis for any rejection. In the event that such contestation of quality by GSL is not accepted by AFC, a sample of the contested batch sealed by AFC in compliance with applicable regulations shall be submitted by AFC to an independent
laboratory, acceptable to GSL, and the check assay of said laboratory shall be accepted by the two Parties as final and binding. The cost of said analysis made by the laboratory shall be borne by the failing party. Whether or not AFC accepts
GSL s basis for rejection, AFC shall use reasonable efforts at GSL s request to replace such rejected Product. If the third party laboratory determines that the batch meets the Specifications, GSL guarantees to purchase that batch at the
agreed-upon price, irrespective of whether AFC has already replaced it. GSL may not destroy any batch of Product until it receives   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

written notification from AFC that AFC does not dispute that the batch fails to meet Specifications and that AFC does not request return of the Product. Upon authorization from AFC to do so, GSL
shall destroy the Product received in the rejected delivery promptly at AFC s cost and provide AFC with certification of such destruction. GSL shall, upon receipt of AFC s request for return, promptly return said Product or quality control
sample to AFC, at AFC s cost. At its election, GSL may treat any rejected batch of Product as  [*] , until and unless it is finally determined that the batch complied with the warranties in Section 14.   
   11. QUANTITY AND PRICE:  The quantity, schedule, and purchase price of Product covered by these terms will be provided in separate GSL Purchase
Orders. These terms shall apply to all GSL Purchase Orders written while these terms are in effect. All GSL Purchase Orders covered by this agreement shall reference this agreement by its effective date. The negotiated price for the Product shall
include up to  [*]  storage at AFC s facility, according to Paragraph 25.       12. DELIVERY, SHIPPING, BILLING AND PAYMENT:  GSL
will provide AFC with an estimated delivery date for each batch at the end of the Acceptance Period or at the time of acceptance of the batch, if earlier. GSL will then have  [*]  days to schedule processing of the Product with its contracted
formulation and encapsulation facility and provide specific delivery instructions to AFC. If specific delivery instructions are not provided to AFC within the  [*]  day period, the  Warehousing  provision included under Paragraph 25
will be considered in effect and GSL will have  [*]  days to provide the written request and other information required to be provided to AFC under that provision. AFC will package and load the Product in accordance with AFC s customary
practices for pharmaceutical compounds, unless otherwise specified by GSL. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties in writing, all shipments shall be shipped  [*]  pursuant to written instructions provided by GSL to AFC. The quantity of
Product made available to GSL s carrier shall be the same amount as invoiced by AFC, unless AFC is otherwise directed in writing by GSL. AFC shall maintain appropriate insurance as far as AFC s custodial responsibilities with respect to
the Product temporarily held at AFC s facility and owned by GSL.  [*]  is responsible for selecting the carrier that will transport the Product. GSL will maintain the appropriate insurance coverage for Product that it has accepted,
including any Product owned by GSL held temporarily or stored at AFC s facility. Within  [*]  calendar days of receipt of such shipping instructions from GSL, AFC shall ship the invoiced amount of Product to its destination. All invoices
from AFC to GSL covering Product shipped to GSL shall be stated, and all payments to AFC by GSL shall be made, in  [*] . The invoices will be issued upon completion of the batches and issuance of the Certificate of Compliance and Certificate of
Analysis for each batch in accordance with Section 9. AFC s invoice shall be paid by GSL not later than  [*]  days following the latest of (i) the receipt of the applicable invoice, (ii) expiration of the Acceptance Period,
and (iii) the receipt of the Certificate of Analysis and Certificate of Compliance. Any invoiced amount which is not paid within  [*]  days of its due date shall be assessed a late payment fee at a rate of  [*]  or the maximum rate
permitted by applicable law with respect to such obligations, whichever is less.     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

13. TERMINATION:        

a)  
  Either Party may terminate this Agreement for a material breach by the other Party. A material breach may be encountered if either Party: (a) repudiates or
breaches a  [*]  of this Agreement; or (b) fails to perform payments or services or deliver goods as provided in this Agreement. A Party may terminate this Agreement under this Section 13 by giving the breaching Party written notice,
specifying the circumstances of the breach, including the provisions of this Agreement that are breached (  Notice  ). The breaching Party, if such a breach has indeed occurred, has  [*]  calendar days from receipt of such Notice
to cure such breach of this Agreement.        If the breach has not been cured at the end of the  [*]  day period
or if the breaching Party is not making  [*]  to cure such breach, then, upon immediate Notice to the breaching Party, the breaching Party shall be in default and the nonbreaching Party may terminate this Agreement. If the breaching Party is
making  [*]  to cure such breach up until the end of the  [*]  day period, the breaching Party shall be granted an additional  [*]  day period to cure said breach so long as it continues to use  [*]  to cure such breach. Unless
the termination is on the grounds of a material breach resulting  [*] , GSL will purchase raw material and intermediates  [*] . Otherwise, GSL shall have the right, .but not the obligation, to purchase such raw materials, intermediates and
inventories of the Product pursuant to Section 6 as GSL may determine in its sole discretion. For clarity, but without limitation on other contract damages that may be available in the event of a material breach by a party, in the event the
termination is on grounds of a material breach resulting  [*]  during the Initial Term, GSL shall pay to AFC  [*] .       

b)  
  If either Party becomes bankrupt, the other Party may, with immediate Notice to the first Party, terminate the Agreement with no liabilities whatsoever, subject to
relevant legislation and provisions herein contained.         

c)  
  GSL may terminate this Agreement in whole or in part at any time by giving  [*]  days written notice to AFC, if GSL, in its sole discretion, determines that
 [*] , or the FDA or any other regulatory agency of applicable jurisdiction (  Regulatory Authority  )  [*]  (each, a   Regulatory Termination  ). GSL may terminate this Agreement if any Regulatory Authority
that regulates Product or Finished Product  [*] . Should GSL terminate this Agreement by a Regulatory Termination:         

(i)  
  AFC will take reasonable measures to cease any ongoing production and limit further expenses associated with such ongoing production;     

(ii)  
  GSL will purchase raw material and intermediates at AFC s  [*] ; and     

(iii)  
  AFC will use commercially reasonable efforts to reallocate available capacity at the Facility in order to mitigate its damages under this Agreement; and
    
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

d)  
  Except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, termination of this Agreement shall not release any Party hereto from any payment, liability or other obligation
existing at the date of termination.         14. LIMITED WARRANTY  :    AFC warrants that Product delivered hereunder
will (i) be manufactured by AFC in accordance with cGMP and other applicable FDA and other rules and regulations of the United States or other countries where Finished Products are marketed, (ii) be manufactured in accordance with the
agreed-upon manufacturing procedures described in the master batch records supplied to GSL in accordance with the provisions of Section 7, as may be modified and disclosed to GSL in accordance with the provisions of Section 7,
(iii) conform to the applicable Specifications set forth in the Contract Manufacturing Manual at the time of Product delivery, and (iv) be provided in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations as more fully set forth in
Section 4 above. GSL s remedies and AFC s liability with respect to this warranty are set forth below. This warranty is the only warranty made by AFC with respect to Product delivered hereunder, and may only be modified or amended by
a written instrument signed by a duly authorized officer of AFC and accepted by GSL. THE EXPRESS WARRANTIES SET FORTH IN Section 4 AND THIS Section 14 ARE THE EXCLUSIVE WARRANTIES HEREUNDER, IN LIEU OF ALL OTHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED
WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE WARRANTIES OF .MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.       15. INDEMNIFICATION BY
BUYER:  GSL agrees to indemnify, hold harmless, and defend AFC and AFC s directors, officers, employees and agents, and the directors, officers, employees and agents of any AFC parent, subsidiary, or related company (the  AFC
Indemnitees ) from and against any and all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, fees, and expenses including without limiting those resulting from or arising out of the  [*]  or resulting from or arising out of possession, use,
transformation, or sale of the Product by any person other than a AFC Indemnitee, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing any damages, losses, or liabilities whatsoever with respect to death or injury to person or damage to
property, provided that AFC provides GSL with prompt notice of any such claim and the exclusive ability to defend (with the reasonable cooperation of AFC) or settle any such claim, except to the extent that such claims, suits, losses, damages,
costs, fees, or expenses arise or result from any negligent or wrongful act or omission of AFC or any AFC Indemnitee.       16. INDEMNIFICATION
BY SELLER:  AFC agrees to indemnify, hold harmless and defend GSL and GSL s directors, officers, employees and agents, and the directors, officers, employees and agents of any GSL parent, subsidiary, or related company (the  GSL
Indemnitees ) from and against any and all claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, reasonable fees, and expenses resulting from or arising out of its manufacture of the Product, or the transportation, storage or use of the Product by AFC before
expiration of the Acceptance Period or GSL s acceptance of the Product, if earlier, including without limiting the generality of the foregoing any damages, losses, or liabilities whatsoever with respect to death or injury to person or damage to
property, provided that GSL provides AFC with prompt notice of any such claim   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

and the exclusive ability to defend (with the reasonable cooperation of GSL) or settle any such claim, except to the extent that such claims, suits, losses, damages, costs, fees, or expenses
arises or results from any negligent or wrongful act or omission of GSL or any GSL Indemnitee.       17. RECALLS AND ADVERSE EVENTS:  If
there is a recall or there are adverse events for Product that may be related to the processing, manufacture or testing of Product by AFC, AFC will provide at GSL s cost any assistance reasonably requested by GSL in connection with such recall
or adverse events. If Product is recalled due to a breach of the warranty in Section 14, AFC shall be responsible for out-of-pocket expenses reasonably incurred in connection with such recall or seizure including loss of Finished Product,
notification, transportation, destruction expenses and replacement costs,  [*] . In any event,  [*] .       18. NONDISCLOSURE:  No
right, express or implied, is granted by this agreement to either party to use in any manner the name of the other or any other trade name or trademark of the other in connection with the performance of the work covered by this agreement. In
addition, each party hereto shall act as an independent contractor and nothing in this agreement shall be construed as to give either party the authority to act for, bind, or commit the other party in any way whatsoever.   
   19. INDEPENDENT CONTRACTORS:  Each Party hereto will act as an independent contractor and nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as to give
either Party the authority to act for, bind, or commit the other Party in any way whatsoever.       20. FORCE MAJEURE:  Neither party shall
be liable for failure to perform or for delay in performing any of its obligations under this agreement, if such failure or delay is caused by labor disputes, lack of supply of materials through no fault of such party, an act of God, riot, fire,
explosion, flood, hostilities of war, executive legislation or administrative order, or other conditions reasonably beyond the control of such party, provided that the party experiencing the delay promptly notifies the other party of the delay. In
the event of such cause intervening, this agreement shall be and remain suspended provided that if such cause shall continue for a period of  [*]  months, the party not subject to the force majeure may  [*]  from the date of expiration of
such period,  [*] .         21. REMEDIES:  The rights and remedies reserved to GSL in this agreement shall be cumulative, and in
addition to all other or further remedies provided in law or equity.         22. NONASSIGNABILITY:  Neither party may assign or transfer
this agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of the other party, except that GSL may make such an assignment or transfer without AFC s consent if such assignment or transfer is to an Affiliate or
successor to substantially all of the business of GSL, whether in a merger, sale of stock, sale of assets, or other similar transaction. Any assignment or transfer or attempted assignment or transfer by either party in violation of the terms of this
Section 22 shall be null and void and of no legal effect. In the case of any permitted assignment or transfer of or under this agreement, this agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the
  
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

successors, executors, heirs, representatives, administrators, and assigns of the Parties hereto.       23. GOVERNING LAW:  This agreement is to be construed according to the laws of the State of [*], as such laws are applied to contracts made in  [ * ]  between  [*]  residents, and
excluding the United Nations  Convention on Contracts for the Sale of Goods.       24. SEVERABILITY:  In the event any term of this
agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable under any statute, regulation, ordinance, executive agreement or other rule of law, such term shall be deemed modified or deleted, but only to the extent necessary to comply with such statute,
regulation, ordinance, agreement or rule, and the valid or enforceable portion thereof and the remaining terms of this agreement will remain in full force and effect, unless the invalid or unenforceable provisions are of such essential importance to
this agreement that it is reasonably assumed that the Parties would not have entered into this agreement without the invalid terms.       25.
WAREHOUSING:  Subject to the availability of space and storage conditions, AFC will store Product for GSL upon written request by GSL no later than  [*]  days after GSL s receipt of the Certificate of Compliance and Certificate of
Analysis. GSL s written request must state that GSL requests AFC not to ship the Product, the business reason for delay and also provide an estimated revised delivery date for the Product. The payment terms included in Section 12 are
unchanged. GSL agrees to pay AFC storage charges for the Product at prevailing rates for the storage of similar Products under similar conditions. However, the negotiated price of the Product includes storage of the Product for up to  [*]  at
AFC s facility  [*]  to GSL. For Product stored by AFC for GSL, delivery of Product will be considered to have occurred when the Product is placed into storage by AFC. The provisions of Section 10 related to transfer of title and risk
of loss for the Product remain in effect. AFC will store the Product in accordance with cGMP and other applicable FDA and other rules and regulations of the United States. AFC will store Product segregated from other stored items in such a condition
that Product is  ready to ship  with minimal delay. Product in storage at AFC will be shipped to GSL on a first-in, first-out (FIFO) basis.  [*]  shall maintain appropriate insurance as far as AFC s custodial responsibilities
with respect to the Product owned by GSL and stored at AFC s facility. Upon GSL s written request, AFC will provide GSL with a certificate of insurance verifying that AFC maintains appropriate insurance as far as AFC s custodial
responsibilities with respect to Product owned by GSL and stored at AFC s facility. Upon AFC s written request, GSL will provide AFC with a certificate of insurance verifying that GSL maintains property insurance for Product that it owns
that is stored at AFC s facility. Upon GSL s written request, AFC will remove a representative sample from any Product owned by GSL and stored at AFC s facility and forward that sample to GSL.   
   26. NOTICES:  All notices under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be delivered personally, sent for next day delivery by internationally
recognized courier service or transmitted by facsimile (transmission confirmed), with confirmation by next day delivery by an   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

internationally recognized courier service, to the following addresses and facsimiles of the respective Parties or such other address or facsimile as is notified pursuant to this Section 26:

If to GSL:   
     
  With a copy to:   

Gilead Sciences Limited/         [*]    
     
    Gilead Sciences, Inc.     333
Lakeside Drive     Foster City, CA 94404  
  USA     Attention: Senior Director,
Chemical     Manufacturing     Facsimile:
+ [ * ]     

If to AFC:   
     
  With a copy to:   

Ampac Fine Chemicals/         [*]    
     
    Ampac Fine Chemicals LLC  
  Highway 50   Hazel Avenue     Rancho Cordova, CA
95670     USA     Attention: Vice President,
Product Management     Facsimile: + [ * ]          27. CONFIDENTIALITY:        

a)  
      Confidential Information   means with respect to GSL confidential or proprietary information of GSL or any of its Affiliates either
disclosed in oral, written or other tangible form or otherwise learned by AFC from GSL related to the manufacture of Product under (i) these terms and any purchase order related thereto, (ii) the Tenofovir DF Purchase Order Terms and
Conditions dated as of June 12, 2002 and August 9, 2007, as amended, and any purchase order related thereto, and (iii) the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated March 4, 2000 (collectively, the
  Documents )  that should reasonably be believed to be confidential or proprietary to GSL or any of its Affiliates, including but not limited to information directly related to the Product or the research, development, preclinical
and clinical programs, data and results; pharmaceutical or biologic candidates and products; inventions, works of authorship, trade secrets, processes, conceptions, formulas, patents, patent applications, and licenses; inventions; business, product,
marketing, sales, scientific and technical strategies, programs and results, including costs and prices; suppliers, manufacturers, customers, market data, personnel, and consultants of GSL or any of its Affiliates; and other confidential or
proprietary matters directly related to GSL or any of its Affiliates, including work done under any purchase order.   Confidential Information   means with      
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

respect to AFC any information which is not Confidential Information of GSL and is confidential or proprietary information of AFC or any of its Affiliates or customers either disclosed in oral,
written or other tangible form or otherwise learned by GSL from AFC that should reasonably be believed to be confidential or proprietary to AFC or any of its customers or Affiliates, including but not limited to information directly related to the
contract manufacturing business of AFC; works of authorship, trade secrets, processes, conceptions, formulas, patents, patent applications, and licenses; inventions; business, product, marketing, sales, scientific and technical strategies, programs
and results, including costs and prices; suppliers, customers, market data, personnel, and consultants of AFC or any of its Affiliates; and other confidential or proprietary matters directly related to AFC or any of its Affiliates, including work
done by AFC for other customers.          

b)  
    Discloser   shall mean the party, whether GSL or AFC, disclosing its Confidential Information to the other party.   Recipient   shall
mean the party, whether GSL or AFC, receiving Confidential Information of the other party.         

c)  
    Affiliate   shall mean any corporation or other business entity controlled by, controlling, or under common control with the respective party. For this
purpose,  control  of a party, corporation or other business entity (including controlled by, controlling, or under common control with) shall mean the following (i) direct or indirect ownership or control of at least 50% of the
issued and voting capital by the respective party, or (ii) possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of an entity, whether by ownership of voting stock, by contract, or otherwise.

d)  
  Subject to Section 27(f), until  [*] , Recipient:         

(i)  
  shall not use Confidential Information of Discloser except for the purpose of carrying out obligations contemplated by the Documents;     

(ii)  
  will hold Confidential Information of Discloser in strictest confidence and shall not disclose Confidential Information of Discloser to third parties, except for its
employees or agents who require Confidential Information of Discloser in order to carry out obligations under the Documents and who are subject to binding obligations of confidentiality and restricted use at least as protective as those of this
Section 27;         

(iii)  
  will protect the confidentiality of Confidential Information of Discloser using at least the same level of efforts and measures used to protect its own confidential
information, and at least commercially reasonable efforts and measures, including without limitation limiting access to Confidential Information commensurate with carrying out obligations contemplated by the Documents and keeping adequate records of
those with access to Confidential Information of Discloser and of all uses or dispositions of Confidential Information of Discloser; and     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

(iv)  
  will notify Discloser as promptly as practicable of any unauthorized use or disclosure of Confidential Information by employees or agents of which Recipient becomes
aware.         

e)  
  Recipient s obligations under Section 27(d) shall not apply to any Confidential Information that:     

(i)  
  Recipient knew prior to learning it under the Documents, as demonstrated by written records predating the date it was learned under the Documents;

(ii)  
  is now, or becomes in the future, publicly available other than by an act or omission of Discloser;     

(iii)  
  a third party discloses to Recipient, without any confidentiality obligations, and without any breach of any direct or indirect obligation of confidentiality to
Discloser, as shown by Recipient s written records contemporaneous with such third party disclosure; or         

(iv)  
  Recipient independently develops without use of or reference to Confidential Information of Discloser, as demonstrated by Recipient s independent written records
contemporaneous with such development.         

f)  
  Notwithstanding other provisions of this Section 27, Recipient may disclose Confidential Information of Discloser to the extent and to the persons or entities
required under applicable governmental law, rule, regulation or order, provided that Recipient (i) first gives prompt written notice of such disclosure requirement to Discloser so as to enable Discloser to seek any limitations on or exemptions
from such disclosure requirement and (ii) reasonably cooperates at Discloser s request and expense in any such efforts by Discloser.         

g)  
  Upon termination of these terms or Discloser s request for any reason, Recipient will (i) immediately cease all use of all Confidential Information of
Discloser disclosed hereunder or under the other Documents and (ii) promptly return to Discloser or, if instructed by Discloser, destroy all such Confidential Information of Discloser, including any copies, extracts, summaries, or derivative
works containing such Confidential Information of Discloser, and certify in writing to Discloser the completion of such return and/or destruction, provided, however, that Recipient may retain one copy in its legal archives solely for the purpose of
monitoring its surviving obligations under the Documents.         

h)  
    Discloser retains all right, title and interest in and to Confidential Information except to the extent otherwise provided by Section 8. This
Section 27 gives Recipient no right or license, by implication or otherwise, to any Confidential Information of Discloser or any intellectual property or other rights owned by or licensed to Discloser except the right to use Confidential
Information solely for performance of obligations under the Documents      
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

and as otherwise specifically provided in Section 8. Recipient may freely transfer, disclose and/or use Recipient s Confidential Information for its or others  purposes.

i)  
  Recipient acknowledges that any actual or threatened breach of this Section 27 may cause Discloser immediate and irreparable harm that cannot be adequately
compensated by monetary damages, and it therefore agrees that Discloser shall not be required to demonstrate irreparable harm in order to seek or obtain injunctive relief for actual or threatened breach of these terms. In addition to any injunctive
relief, Discloser may seek any other remedies available to it at law or in equity.         28. ENTIRE AGREEMENT; AMENDMENTS: 
This agreement together with the attachments, exhibits, or supplements specifically referenced in this agreement, constitutes the entire, final, complete, and exclusive agreement between the Parties and supersedes all previous agreements (including
specifically the Tenofovir DF Purchase Order Terms and Conditions dated June 12, 2002, as amended by Amendment No. 1 and Amendment No. 2, the Tenofovir DF purchase order terms and conditions dated August 9, 2007 (CD-07-0200), and
the Gilead Sciences, Inc. Confidential Disclosure Agreement dated March 4, 2002)) or representations, written or oral, with respect to the subject matter of this agreement. This agreement may not be modified, amended, waived, discharged, or
terminated orally, but only by an instrument in writing signed by a duly authorized representative of each party. SUBJECT TO SUCH AMENDMENT, THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS SET FORTH HEREIN CONSTITUTE THE FINAL COMPLETE, EXCLUSIVE, AND ENTIRE AGREEMENT
BETWEEN GSL AND AFC WITH RESPECT TO THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF. ANY TERM OR CONDITION IN ANY AGREEMENT, CONFIRMATION, OR OTHER DOCUMENT FURNISHED BY GSL OR AFC WHICH IS IN ANY WAY INCONSISTENT WITH THE TERMS SET FORTH HEREIN IS HEREBY EXPRESSLY
REJECTED.       29. INSURANCE:  Each Party will maintain at is own cost insurance policies, which may be by means of self-insurance, with
respect to its activities and obligations under this Agreement that are commercially reasonable as to terms, coverage and coverage limits in view of the scope of such Party s activities and obligations under this Agreement.  [ * ] .
At the other Party s request, each Party will supply certificates of insurance evidencing such coverages.       30. SURVIVAL:  The
provisions of Sections 8, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 22, 23, 24, and 27 shall survive the termination or expiration of this Agreement.   
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

The Parties have entered into this Agreement as of the Effective Date by their duly authorized
representatives.       

GILEAD SCIENCES LIMITED     

By:   
     
    /s/ John F. Milligan    

Name:   
     
    John F. Milligan, Ph.D. Ph.D.    

Date:   
     
    November 8, 2010    

Title:   
     
    Director    

AMPAC FINE CHEMICALS LLC     

By:   
     
    /s/ Richard Beatty    

Name:   
     
    Richard Beatty    

Date:   
     
    November 8, 2010    

Title:   
     
    Vice President     
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

Exhibit A        Product Minimum Purchase Quantities       The table below sets forth GSL s minimum Product
purchase obligations for the stated calendar years for Product for commercial use.      CASE A:   

*  
  Note: Pricing is for optional incremental TDF volumes, which would be in addition to the  [ * ] .  [ * ] .     
  Price shall be based upon the expected acquisition costs of the key raw materials below. Variance from these acquisitions costs shall be invoiced or
credited to GSL as  [ * ]  or at the completion of a GSL Purchase Order on an annual basis.       
 
          [*] = CERTAIN
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS DOCUMENT, MARKED BY BRACKETS, IS FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION PURSUANT TO RULE 24B-2 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, AS AMENDED    

</EX-10.90>

<EX-21.1>
 6
 dex211.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of Registrant 

Exhibit 21.1        SUBSIDIARIES OF GILEAD SCIENCES, INC.        

Name of Subsidiary    
      
     Country of Incorporation     
 
    Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead Sciences, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    CV Therapeutics Europe Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Alberta ULC   
      
  Canada   
 
    Gilead Alberta, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Biologics, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Biopharmaceutics Ireland Corporation   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Colorado, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Connecticut, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Holdings, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Palo Alto, Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Sciences (NZ)   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Gilead Sciences Belgium   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Gilead Sciences Canada, Inc.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Gilead Sciences Cork Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Sciences Denmark ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Gilead Sciences Europe Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Sciences Finland Oy   
      
  Finland   
 
    Gilead Sciences GesmbH.   
      
  Austria   
 
    Gilead Sciences GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Gilead Sciences Hellas EPE   
      
  Greece   
 
    Gilead Sciences Holding, LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Gilead Sciences Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Gilead Sciences International Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Sciences Lda.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Gilead Sciences Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Gilead Sciences llac Ticaret Limited Sireketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Gilead Sciences Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Gilead Sciences Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Gilead Sciences Netherlands BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Gilead Sciences Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Gilead Sciences Poland   
      
  Poland   
 
    Gilead Sciences Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Gilead Sciences S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Gilead Sciences S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Gilead Sciences SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Gilead Sciences Sweden AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Gilead Sciences Switzerland Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Leaf   Shield Insurance Limited   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Tri-Supply Limited   
      
  Ireland    

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23.1        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to
the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-08083, 333-08085, 333-58893, 333-84719, 333-84713, 333-47520, 333-64628, 333-102911, 333-102912, 333-117480, 333-126012, 333-135412, 333-136814, 333-138985,
333-143920, 333-151624, 333-158638, 333-161069, 333-163871 and 333-171983) pertaining to the 1991 Stock Option Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the International Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 1995 Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option
Plan, the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan of Gilead Sciences, Inc., the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1993 Incentive Stock Plan, the NeXstar Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1995 Director Option Plan, the Vestar, Inc. 1988 Stock Option Plan, the Triangle
Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 1996 Stock Incentive Plan, Option Agreement, dated August 5, 2002, between Triangle Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Daniel G. Welch, the Corus Pharma, Inc. 2001 Stock Plan, the Myogen, Inc. 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, the CV
Therapeutics, Inc. 1994 Equity Incentive Plan, the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 2000 Equity Incentive Plan, the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 2000 Nonstatutory Incentive Plan, the CV Therapeutics, Inc. 2004 Employment Commencement Incentive Plan, the CV
Therapeutics, Inc. Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, the Arresto Biosciences, Inc. 2007 Equity Incentive Plan and the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Nos. 333-87167, 333-54350, 333-103871, 333-111451 and 333-138979) of Gilead
Sciences, Inc. and in the related Prospectuses of our reports dated February 28, 2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Gilead Sciences, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
Gilead Sciences, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2010.   
  /s/    E RNST    Y OUNG  LLP      Palo Alto, California      February 28, 2011   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

Certification of CEO, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, John C. Martin, Ph.D., certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Date: February 28, 2011  
     
    /s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN             

John C. Martin, Ph.D.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer      

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO, AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(A) OR RULE 15D-14(A)

Certification of CFO, as required by Rule 13a-14(a) or Rule 15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Robin L. Washington, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

Date: February 28, 2011  
     
    /s/    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON             

Robin L. Washington       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer      

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS OF CEO AND CFO AS REQUIRED BY RULE 13A-14(B) OR RULE 15D-14(B)

Certifications of CEO and CFO as required by Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATIONS        PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
Annual Report of Gilead Sciences, Inc. (the Company ) on Form 10-K for the annual period ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Annual Report) and pursuant to Section 906
of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted), John C. Martin, Ph.D., the President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Robin L. Washington, the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company,
each hereby certifies that, to the best of his or her knowledge:       1.  The Company s Annual Report
fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended; and       2.  The information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition of the Company at the end of the periods covered by the Annual Report and
results of operations of the Company for the periods covered by the Annual Report.      Dated: February 28, 2011   

/s/    J OHN  C.
M ARTIN            
      
    /s/    R OBIN  L.
W ASHINGTON             
 
     John C. Martin, Ph.D.       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
      
     Robin L. Washington       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer         This certification
accompanies the Form 10-K to which it relates, is not deemed filed with the SEC and is not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of the Company under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, (whether made before or after the date of the Form 10-K), irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 gild-20101231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 gild-20101231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 gild-20101231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 gild-20101231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 gild-20101231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 gild-20101231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

