<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080228_10-K_edgar_data_764180_0001193125-08-041586_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2990578</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>746663</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>5692</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1709415</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>143</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-041586.hdr.sgml : 20080228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080228150816
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-041586
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000764180
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	TOBACCO PRODUCTS [2100]
		IRS NUMBER:				133260245
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08940
		FILM NUMBER:		08650141

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		120 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9176634000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		120 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10017

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALTRIA GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20030127

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 THf2QtbRZFkj4fDWbRWxazdULa85fBkqQwbrinh6UFkGu6O6uZ6kSBej32UdKe7P
 9v7PvndoFT4uAZSvsJ/4Zw==

 0001193125-08-041586.txt : 20080228

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

     UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C.
20549              FORM 10-K          
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007       OR    
     
     For the transition period from                  to
                              Commission File Number 1-8940              ALTRIA
GROUP, INC.        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)    
     917-663-4000        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each
class                            
     
    Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Common Stock, $0.33   1   /  3   par value   
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
          Securities registered pursuant
to Section 12(g) of the Act: None            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a
well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes           No                  
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act.  Yes           No        
             Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes           No                     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  accelerated filer ,  large accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.         

Large accelerated filer           
      
  Accelerated filer           
      
  Non-accelerated filer           
      
  Smaller reporting company            
          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).   Yes           No                     As of June 29, 2007 the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $148 billion based on the
closing sale price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.   
           DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY
REFERENCE    

Document     
      
   Parts Into Which Incorporated      
 
  Portions of the registrant s annual report to shareholders for the year ended December 31, 2007 (the  2007 Annual Report )  
      
  Parts I, II, and IV   

Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 28, 2008, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission ( SEC ) on or about April 24, 2008  
      
  Part III   

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS         

Page   

PART I    

Item 1.  

Business   
      
  1   

Item 1A.  

Risk Factors   
      
  15   

Item 1B.  

Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  20   

Item 2.  

Properties   
      
  20   

Item 3.  

Legal Proceedings   
      
  21   

Item 4.  

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  46   

PART II    

Item 5.  

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  47   

Item 6.  

Selected Financial Data   
      
  47   

Item 7.  

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation   
      
  47   

Item 7A.  

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  47   

Item 8.  

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  48   

Item 9.  

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  48   

Item 9A.  

Controls and Procedures   
      
  48   

Item 9B.  

Other Information   
      
  48   

PART III   

Item 10.  

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
      
  49   

Item 11.  

Executive Compensation   
      
  50   

Item 12.  

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  50   

Item 13.  

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  50   

Item 14.  

Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
      
  50   

PART IV   

Item 15.  

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  51   

Signatures    
      
  56   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Financial Statement Schedule    
      
  S-1   

Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  S-2   

Table of Contents  

PART I             
  Item 1.    Business.                   (a) General Development of Business               General             As used herein, unless the context indicates
otherwise,  Altria Group, Inc.  refers to the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Altria family of companies and the term  ALG  refers solely to the parent company. ALG s wholly-owned
subsidiaries, Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) and John Middleton, Inc. are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products. Philip Morris Capital
Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. During 2003, PMCC shifted its strategic focus from an emphasis on the growth of its portfolio of finance leases through
new investments to one of maximizing investment gains and generating cash flows from its existing portfolio of finance assets. In addition, at December 31, 2007, ALG held a 28.6% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc
( SABMiller ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of various beer products.             PMI Spin-Off:             On January 30, 2008, the Board of
Directors announced that Altria Group, Inc. plans to spin off all of its interest in PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The distribution of all the PMI shares owned by Altria Group, Inc. is expected to be made on
March 28, 2008 (the  PMI Distribution Date ), to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the  PMI Record Date ). Altria Group, Inc. will distribute one share of PMI
common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date. Following the PMI Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. will not own any shares of PMI common stock. Altria Group, Inc. intends to adjust its
current dividend so that its stockholders who retain their Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the PMI Distribution Date. Following the distribution, PMI s initial annualized
dividend rate will be $1.84 per common share and Altria Group, Inc. s initial annualized dividend rate will be $1.16 per common share. All decisions regarding future dividends will be made independently by the Altria Group, Inc. Board of
Directors and the PMI Board of Directors, for their respective companies.            Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options will be treated similarly to public stockholders and will, accordingly, have their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options will receive the following
stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, will have an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:         

a new PMI option to acquire the same number of shares of PMI common stock as the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held by such person on the PMI Distribution Date; and

an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.               Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to
January 30, 2008, will retain their existing awards and will receive the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original restriction period
(typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who will be employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, will receive additional
shares of deferred stock of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who will be employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution Date, will receive
substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to preserve the intrinsic value of the award.         
   -1-   

Table of Contents  

   To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. receive PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc. will
reimburse PMI in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options to be received. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI will reimburse Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the
stock options. To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. receive PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. will pay to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the extent that PMI
employees hold Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock, PMI will reimburse Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously charged to
PMI for the restricted or deferred stock. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at December 31, 2007, the net amount of these reimbursements is estimated to be approximately $427 million from Altria Group, Inc. to
PMI. However, this estimate is subject to change as stock awards vest (in the case of restricted and deferred stock) or are exercised (in the case of stock options) prior to the PMI Record Date.            PMI is currently included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax
return, and PMI s federal income tax contingencies are recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG (the parent company). Prior to the distribution of PMI shares, ALG will reimburse PMI in cash for these liabilities, which are
approximately $97 million.            A subsidiary of ALG currently provides PMI
with certain corporate services at cost plus a management fee. After the PMI Distribution Date, PMI will independently undertake these activities, and services provided to PMI will cease in 2008. All intercompany accounts will be settled in cash.
           Certain employees of PMI participate in the U.S. benefit plans offered
by Altria Group, Inc. After the PMI Distribution Date, the benefits previously provided by Altria Group, Inc. will be provided by PMI. As a result, new plans will be established by PMI, and the related plan assets (to the extent that the benefit
plans were previously funded) and liabilities will be transferred to the new plans. The transfer of these benefits will result in PMI recording an additional liability of approximately $98 million in its consolidated balance sheet, partially offset
by the related deferred tax assets ($37 million) and the corresponding Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  adjustment to
stockholders  equity ($23 million). Altria Group, Inc. will pay PMI a corresponding amount of $38 million in cash, which is net of the related tax benefit.         
  Altria Group, Inc. currently estimates that, if the distribution had occurred on December 31, 2007, it would have resulted in a net decrease to Altria
Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity of approximately $15 billion.            During March 2008, Altria Group, Inc. will mail an Information Statement to all stockholders of Altria Group, Inc. common stock as of the PMI Record Date. The Information Statement will include information about PMI, as well as information
regarding procedures by which the distribution will be effected and other details of the transaction.             Dividends and Share Repurchases:             In
conjunction with its announcement of the PMI spin-off, the Board of Directors reaffirmed its intention to adjust Altria Group, Inc. s dividend immediately following the spin-off so that Altria Group, Inc. stockholders who retain their PMI
shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same annual cash dividend rate of $3.00 per common share that existed before the spin-off. Altria Group, Inc. is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.29 per common share per quarter, or
$1.16 per common share on an annualized basis. Altria Group, Inc. has established a dividend policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 75% post-spin. PMI is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.46 per common share per
quarter, or $1.84 per common share on an annualized basis. PMI has established a dividend policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 65% post-spin. Payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Boards of Directors of
the respective companies.         
   -2-   

Table of Contents  

   In addition, the Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs as follows:         

for Altria Group, Inc. a $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program that is expected to begin in April 2008, after completion of the spin-off; and

for PMI, a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program that is expected to begin in May 2008.                Tender Offer for Altria Group, Inc. Notes:             In connection with Altria Group, Inc. s contemplated spin-off of PMI, on
January 31, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd., commenced tender offers to purchase for cash $2.6 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately      1.0 billion in euro-denominated bonds.            While Altria Group, Inc. believes that the proposed spin-off of PMI is not prohibited by the indentures, it believes that it is desirable to eliminate any
uncertainty by amending the indentures with the consent of note holders.            In order to finance the tender offer, Altria Group, Inc. arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan agreement with substantially the same terms as its existing credit facilities. Subsequent to the spin-off of PMI, Altria Group, Inc.
intends to issue new public debt to refinance debt incurred under the bridge loan agreement. The tender offer and consent solicitation is expected to result in first quarter 2008 charges of approximately $400 million.             Kraft Spin-Off:        
     On March 30, 2007 (the  Kraft Distribution Date ), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods Inc.
( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 (the  Kraft Record Date ) in a tax-free distribution. The distribution ratio was 0.692024 of a share of
Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft. Following the distribution, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. During the
second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share, so that its stockholders who retained their Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the
distribution. In August 2007, Altria Group, Inc. increased its quarterly dividend to $0.75 per share.            Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public stockholders and accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments.
Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:         

a new Kraft option to acquire the number of shares of Kraft Class A common stock equal to the product of (a) the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held by such
person on the Kraft Distribution Date and (b) the distribution ratio of 0.692024; and            

an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.               The new Kraft option has an exercise price equal to the Kraft market price at the time
of the distribution ($31.66) multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio, which represents the exercise price of the original Altria Group, Inc. option divided by the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately before the distribution ($87.81). The
reduced exercise price of the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option was determined by multiplying the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately following the distribution ($65.90) by the Option Conversion Ratio.         
   -3-   

Table of Contents  

   Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007, retained
their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock. The amount of Kraft restricted stock or deferred stock awarded to such holders was calculated using the same formula set forth above with
respect to new Kraft options. All of the restricted stock and deferred stock will vest at the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock
awarded on January 31, 2007, did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft. Rather, they received additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award.            To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. received Kraft stock
options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed Kraft in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that Kraft employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, Kraft reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the
Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that holders of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock received Kraft deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to Kraft the fair value of the Kraft deferred stock less the value of projected
forfeitures. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the Kraft Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $179 million from Kraft to Altria Group, Inc. in April 2007. The
reimbursement from Kraft is reflected as an increase to the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet.            Kraft was previously included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and federal income tax contingencies
were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. As part of the intercompany account settlement discussed below, ALG reimbursed Kraft in cash for these liabilities, which as of March 30, 2007, were approximately $305 million, plus
pre-tax interest of $63 million ($41 million after taxes). ALG also reimbursed Kraft in cash for the federal income tax consequences of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ) (approximately $70 million plus pre-tax interest of $14 million, $9 million after taxes). See Note 14.  Income
Taxes  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements ( Note 14 ), which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 annual report, for a discussion of the FIN 48 adoption and the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria
Group, Inc. and Kraft.            A subsidiary of ALG previously provided Kraft
with certain services at cost plus a 5% management fee. After the Kraft Distribution Date, Kraft undertook these activities, and any remaining limited services provided to Kraft ceased during 2007. All intercompany accounts were settled in cash
within 30 days of the Kraft Distribution Date. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed above related to stock awards and tax contingencies) resulted in a net payment from Kraft to ALG of $85 million in April
2007.            The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group,
Inc. s stockholders  equity of $27.4 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.             Other:             PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the
United States. PMI is a holding company whose subsidiaries and affiliates and their licensees are engaged primarily in the manufacture and sale of tobacco products (mainly cigarettes) internationally.  Marlboro , the principal cigarette brand
of these companies, has been the world s largest-selling cigarette brand since 1972. John Middleton, Inc., which was acquired by Altria Group, Inc. in December 2007, is a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars.  Black  
Mild , the principal cigar brand of John Middleton, Inc., is the second largest selling machine-made large cigar in the United States.            In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production
for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in  
       
   -4-   

Table of Contents  

Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina
manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe
by October 2008, and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.            As a result of this program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated depreciation of $143 million, employee separation costs of $353 million
and other charges of $174 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash
expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated
with the program. The pre-tax implementation costs primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately
$140 million are expected during 2008 for the program. The program is expected to generate pre-tax cost savings beginning in 2008, with total estimated annual cost savings of approximately $335 million by 2011, of which $179 million will be realized
by PMI (by 2009) and $156 million will be realized by PM USA (by 2011).            During 2007, 2006 and 2005, PMI announced plans for the streamlining of various administrative functions and operations. These plans resulted in the announced closure or partial closure of 9 production facilities through December 31,
2007, the largest of which was the closure of a factory in Munich, Germany announced in 2006. As a result of these announcements, PMI recorded pre-tax charges of $195 million, $126 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 pre-tax charges primarily related to severance costs. The 2006 pre-tax charges included $57 million of costs related to PMI s Munich factory closure. The 2005 pre-tax charges primarily related to the
write-off of obsolete equipment, severance benefits and impairment charges associated with the closure of a factory in the Czech Republic, and the streamlining of various operations. Pre-tax charges, primarily related to severance, of approximately
$65 million related to these previously announced plans are expected during 2008. Cash payments related to exit costs at PMI were $124 million, $44 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.
Future cash payments for exit costs incurred to date are expected to be approximately $170 million. The streamlining of these various functions and operations is expected to result in the elimination of approximately 3,400 positions. As of
December 31, 2007, approximately 2,400 of these positions have been eliminated.            In 2007, 2006 and 2005, general corporate pre-tax charges were $111 million, $42 million and $49 million, respectively. These charges were primarily related to investment banking and legal fees in 2007 associated with the Kraft
and PMI spin-offs, as well as streamlining of various corporate functions in each year.            In November 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced that it had signed an agreement to sell its headquarters building in New York City for approximately $525 million and will record a pre-tax gain of approximately $400 million upon
closing the transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, Altria Group, Inc. plans to close the sale no later than April 1, 2008.             Source of Funds Dividends             Because ALG is a holding company, its principal sources of funds are from the payment of dividends and repayment of debt from its subsidiaries. In 2007, ALG
received $6.6 billion in cash dividends from PMI. PMI maintains separate revolving credit facilities to finance normal working capital  
       
   -5-   

Table of Contents  

and other needs. The PMI facilities have an earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) to interest ratio covenant. PMI has
met, and expects to continue to meet, its covenant. Except for the previously discussed covenant, ALG s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries currently are not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends
or make other distributions with respect to their common stock.              (b) Financial
Information About Segments              Beginning with the second quarter of
2007, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect PMI s operations by geographic region. Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are U.S. tobacco; European Union; Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa; Asia; Latin
America; and Financial Services. Accordingly, prior year segment results have been restated. Net revenues and operating companies income* (together with a reconciliation to operating income) attributable to each such segment for each of the last
three years are set forth in Note 15.  Segment Reporting  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements ( Note 15 ), which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 Annual Report.            The relative percentages of operating companies income attributable to each reportable
segment were as follows:         

*  
  Altria Group, Inc. s management reviews operating companies income to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general
corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2 to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements and are incorporated herein by reference to the
2007 Annual Report.              Changes in the relative percentages
above reflect the following:         

In 2005 and 2006, U.S. tobacco results reflect lower wholesale promotional allowance rates. In 2007, U.S. tobacco results primarily reflect lower volume and higher pre-tax
charges for asset impairment, exit and implementation costs, partially offset by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates and lower marketing, administration and research costs.            

In 2006, European Union results primarily reflect lower volume/mix, price decreases, an Italian antitrust charge ($61 million) and higher pre-tax charges for asset impairment
and exit costs, partially offset by lower marketing, administration and research costs. In 2007, European Union results primarily reflect favorable currency, price increases and lower marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by
lower volume/mix.            

In 2006, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa results primarily reflect price increases and higher volume/mix, partially offset by higher marketing, administration and
research costs. In 2007, Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa results primarily reflect price increases, higher volume/mix and favorable currency, partially offset by higher marketing, administration and research costs.
           
   -6-   

Table of Contents  

In 2006, Asia results primarily reflect the impact of acquisitions and price increases, partially offset by unfavorable currency, lower volume/mix and higher marketing,
administration and research costs. In 2007, Asia results primarily reflect lower volume/mix, higher marketing, administration and research costs, and unfavorable currency, partially offset by price increases and lower costs, and lower fixed
manufacturing costs.            

In Latin America, the 2006 results include the pre-tax gain of $488 million related to the exchange of PMI s interest in a beer business for a cigarette business in the
Dominican Republic.            

In 2006 and 2005, financial services results include charges taken for finance lease exposure to the United States airline industry of $103 million and $200 million,
respectively. In 2007, financial services results include cash recoveries of $214 million on aircraft leases previously charged to earnings.            
    (c) Narrative Description of Business               Tobacco Products             PM USA manufactures, markets and sells cigarettes and other tobacco products in the United States and its territories, and contract manufactures cigarettes for PMI.
Subsidiaries and affiliates of PMI and their licensees manufacture, market and sell tobacco products outside the United States.            In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production
for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing
for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe by October 2008 and PM USA will close its Cabarrus
manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.             Acquisitions              John Middleton, Inc.:             On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA s adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton,
Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc. s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. s as of
December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, have been included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated operating results.            Assets purchased consist primarily of non-amortizable intangible assets related to
acquired brands of $2.6 billion, amortizable intangible assets of $0.1 billion, goodwill of $0.1 billion and other assets of $0.1 billion, partially offset by accrued liabilities assumed in the acquisition. These amounts represent the preliminary
allocation of purchase price and are subject to revision when appraisals are finalized in 2008.             PMI Mexico:             In November 2007, PMI acquired an
additional 30% stake in its Mexican tobacco business from Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. ( Grupo Carso ), which increased PMI s ownership interest to 80%, for $1.1 billion. After this transaction was completed, Grupo Carso retained a 20%
stake in the business.  
       
   -7-   

Table of Contents  

PMI also entered into an agreement with Grupo Carso which provides the basis for PMI to potentially acquire, or for Grupo Carso to potentially sell to PMI, Grupo
Carso s remaining 20% in the future. This agreement will be valued as part of the allocation of purchase price.            Assets purchased consist primarily of goodwill of $1.2 billion, inventories of $168 million, property, plant and equipment of $157 million and other intangible
assets (primarily brands) of $32 million. Liabilities assumed in the acquisition consist principally of accrued liabilities. These amounts represent the preliminary allocation of purchase price and are subject to revision when appraisals are
finalized in 2008.             PMI Holdings in the Dominican Republic:             In November 2006, a subsidiary of PMI exchanged its 47.5% interest in E. Le n
Jimenes, C. por. A. ( ELJ ), which included a 40% indirect interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary, Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, C. por. A., for 100% ownership of ELJ s cigarette subsidiary, Industria de Tabaco Le n Jimenes,
S.A. ( ITLJ ) and $427 million of cash, which was contributed to ITLJ prior to the transaction. As a result of the transaction, PMI now owns 100% of the cigarette business and no longer holds an interest in ELJ s beer business. The
exchange of PMI s interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary resulted in a pre-tax gain on sale of $488 million, which increased Altria Group, Inc. s 2006 net earnings by $0.15 per diluted share. The operating results of ELJ s cigarette
subsidiary for the year ended December 31, 2007 and from November 2006 to December 31, 2006, the amounts of which were not material, were included in Altria Group, Inc. s operating results in the respective years.             Sampoerna:             In March 2005, a subsidiary of PMI acquired 40% of the outstanding shares of PT HM Sampoerna Tbk ( Sampoerna ), an
Indonesian tobacco company. In May 2005, PMI purchased an additional 58%, for a total of 98%. The total cost of the transaction was approximately $4.8 billion, including Sampoerna s cash of approximately $0.3 billion and debt of the U.S. dollar
equivalent of approximately $0.2 billion. The purchase price was primarily financed through PMI s credit facilities further discussed in Note 9.  Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements  to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated
financial statements ( Note 9 ), which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 Annual Report.            The acquisition of Sampoerna allowed PMI to enter the profitable kretek cigarette category in Indonesia. Sampoerna s financial position and results of
operations have been fully consolidated with PMI as of June 1, 2005. From March 2005 to May 2005, PMI recorded equity earnings in Sampoerna. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Sampoerna contributed $593 million, $608
million and $315 million, respectively, of operating income and $268 million, $249 million and $128 million, respectively, of net earnings.            During 2006, the allocation of purchase price relating to the acquisition of Sampoerna was completed. Assets purchased consist primarily of goodwill of $3.5
billion, other intangible assets (primarily brands) of $1.3 billion, inventories of $0.5 billion and property, plant and equipment of $0.4 billion. Liabilities assumed in the acquisition consist principally of long-term debt of $0.3 billion and
accrued liabilities.             Other:             During the first quarter of 2007, PMI acquired an additional 50.2% stake in a Pakistan
cigarette manufacturer, Lakson Tobacco Company Limited ( Lakson Tobacco ), and completed a mandatory tender offer for the remaining shares, which increased PMI s total ownership interest in Lakson Tobacco from 40% to approximately
98%, for $388 million.         
   -8-   

Table of Contents  

   In the fourth quarter of 2006, PMI purchased from British American Tobacco the  Muratti  and  Ambassador 
trademarks in certain markets, as well as the rights to  L M  and  Chesterfield  in Hong Kong, in exchange for the rights to  Benson   Hedges  in certain African markets and a payment of $115 million.            During 2005, PMI acquired a 98% stake in Coltabaco, the largest tobacco company in
Colombia, for approximately $300 million.            The effects of these other
acquisitions, in the aggregate, were not material to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations or operating cash flows in any of the periods presented.             U.S. Tobacco Products             PM USA is the largest tobacco company in the United States, with total cigarette shipments in the United States of 175.1 billion
units in 2007, a decrease of 4.6% from 2006.            PM USA s major premium
brands are  Marlboro ,  Virginia Slims  and  Parliament . Its principal discount brand is  Basic . All of its brands are marketed to take into account differing preferences of adult smokers.  Marlboro  is the largest-selling
cigarette brand in the United States, with shipments of 144.4 billion units in 2007 (down 3.9% from 2006).            In the premium segment, PM USA s 2007 shipment volume decreased 4.3% from 2006, and its shipment volume in the discount segment decreased 7.8%. Shipments of
premium cigarettes accounted for 92.3% of PM USA s total 2007 volume, up from 92.1% in 2006.            The following table summarizes PM USA s cigarette volume performance by brand for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
       
   -9-   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes PM USA s retail share performance, based on data from the IRI/Capstone Total
Retail Panel, which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. This panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including Internet and direct mail:
        
          PM USA anticipates that U.S.
industry volume will decline by approximately 2.5% to 3.0% annually over the next few years. PM USA cannot predict the relative sizes of the premium and discount segments or its shipment or retail market share. PM USA believes that its results may
be materially adversely affected by the items discussed in Item 1A.  Risk Factors .            John Middleton, Inc., which was acquired by Altria Group, Inc. in December 2007, is a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars.  Black   Mild , the principal cigar brand of John Middleton, Inc., is the
second largest selling machine-made large cigar in the United States. John Middleton, Inc. s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to
December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, have been included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated operating results.             International Tobacco Products             PMI s total cigarette shipments increased 2.2% in 2007 to 850.0 billion units. PMI estimates that its share of the international cigarette market (which
is defined as worldwide cigarette volume excluding the United States) was approximately 15.6%, 15.4% and 15.1% in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. PMI estimates that international cigarette market shipments were approximately 5.5 trillion units in
2007, a 0.7% increase over 2006. PMI s leading brands  Marlboro ,  L M ,  Philip Morris ,  Bond Street ,  Chesterfield ,  Parliament ,  Lark ,  Merit  and  Virginia Slims  collectively
accounted for approximately 10.9%, 11.0% and 11.0% of the international cigarette market in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Shipments of PMI s principal brand,  Marlboro , decreased 1.5% in 2007, and represented approximately 9.2%,
9.2%, and 9.3% of the international cigarette market, excluding the People s Republic of China ( PRC ) in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.            PMI has a cigarette market share of at least 15%, and in a number of instances substantially more than 15%, in more than 90 markets, including Argentina, Australia,
Austria, Belgium, Colombia, the Czech Republic, Finland, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Kazakhstan, Mexico, the Netherlands, the Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, Singapore, Spain,
Sweden, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine.             Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials
            PM USA sells its tobacco products principally to wholesalers
(including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services. John Middleton, Inc. sells its tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors) and the armed services. Subsidiaries and
affiliates of PMI and their licensees sell their tobacco products worldwide to distributors, wholesalers, retailers, state-owned enterprises and other customers.         
   -10-   

Table of Contents  

   The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product
quality, taste, price, marketing and packaging constituting the significant methods of competition. Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions
and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products. The tobacco products of ALG s subsidiaries, affiliates and their licensees are advertised and promoted through various media, although television and
radio advertising of cigarettes is prohibited in the United States and is prohibited or restricted in most other countries. In addition, as discussed below in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  PM USA and other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have
agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions.            In the United States, under a contract growing program known as the Tobacco Farmers Partnering Program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of
various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers. Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts. PM USA also purchases its United States tobacco requirements through other
sources. In 2003, in connection with the settlement of a suit filed on behalf of a purported class of tobacco growers and quota-holders against certain manufacturers, including PM USA, and leaf dealers, PM USA and certain other defendants reached an
agreement with plaintiffs to settle the lawsuit. The agreement includes a commitment by each settling manufacturer defendant, including PM USA, to purchase a certain percentage of its leaf requirements from U.S. tobacco growers over a period of
at least ten years. These quantities are subject to adjustment in accordance with the terms of the settlement agreement.            Tobacco production in the United States has been subject to government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States
Department of Agriculture (the  USDA ). In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program
through an industry funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota-holders. The cost of the buy-out to the industry is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of all tobacco
products. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of all tobacco products. The quota buy-out payments will offset already scheduled payments to the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust (the
 NTGST ). See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation National Grower Settlement Trust for a discussion of the NTGST. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are also obligated to cover any
losses (up to $500 million) that the government may incur on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. In 2005, PM USA recorded a $138 million expense for its share of the loss. Altria
Group, Inc. does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2008 and beyond.            John Middleton, Inc. purchases burley and flue-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf dealers located in the United States. John Middleton, Inc.
does not participate in the PM USA Tobacco Farmers Partnering Program.            PMI also purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and styles primarily from independent tobacco dealers and directly from tobacco growers. PMI also contracts directly with farmers in several countries, including the
United States, Argentina, Mexico, Indonesia, Ecuador, the Dominican Republic, Poland, Colombia and Portugal. Tobacco production outside the United States is subject to a variety of controls and external factors, which may include tobacco subsidies
and tobacco production control programs. All of those controls and programs may substantially affect market prices for tobacco.         
   -11-   

Table of Contents  

   PM USA, PMI and John Middleton, Inc. believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy
their current and anticipated production requirements.             Business Environment
            Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby
incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by Business Segment Tobacco Business Environment  on
pages 27 to 33 of the 2007 Annual Report and made a part hereof.             Financial Services             PMCC holds investments in finance
leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. Total assets of PMCC were $6.1 billion at December 31, 2007, down from $6.8 billion at December 31, 2006, reflecting a
decrease in finance assets, net, due to asset sales. In 2003, PMCC shifted its strategic focus and is no longer making new investments but is instead focused on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and
generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. PMCC s finance asset portfolio includes leases in the following
investment categories: electric power, aircraft, rail and surface transport, manufacturing and real estate industries. Finance assets, net, are primarily leveraged leases, which are comprised of total lease payments receivable ($19.4 billion) and
the residual value of assets under lease ($1.5 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($12.8 billion) and unearned income ($2.3 billion). The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased
property, and is nonrecourse to all other assets of PMCC or Altria Group, Inc. As required by accounting standards generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ), the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against
the related rentals receivable and has been presented on a net basis, within finance assets, net, in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets.            During 2007, 2006 and 2005, PMCC received proceeds from asset sales, maturities and bankruptcy recoveries of $569 million, $357 million and $476 million,
respectively, and recorded gains of $326 million, $132 million and $72 million, respectively, in operating companies income.            Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses related to PMCC s airline
exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.            PMCC leases one 750 megawatt ( MW ) natural gas-fired power plant (located in Pasadena, Texas) to an indirect subsidiary of
Calpine Corporation ( Calpine ). Calpine, which has guaranteed the lease, is currently operating under bankruptcy protection. The subsidiary was not included as part of the bankruptcy filing of Calpine. PMCC does not record income on
leases when the lessee or its guarantor is in bankruptcy. At December 31, 2007, PMCC s finance asset balance for this lessee was $60 million. Based on PMCC s assessment of the prospect for recovery on the Pasadena plant, a portion of
the outstanding finance asset balance has been provided for in the allowance for losses. In July 2007, PMCC s interest in two 265 MW natural gas-fired power plants (located in Tiverton, Rhode Island, and Rumford, Maine), which were part of the
bankruptcy filing, were foreclosed upon. These leases were rejected and written off during 2006.         
   -12-   

Table of Contents  

   None of PMCC s aircraft lessees are operating under bankruptcy protection at December 31, 2007. One of
PMCC s aircraft lessees, Northwest Airlines, Inc. ( Northwest ), exited bankruptcy on May 31, 2007 and assumed PMCC s leveraged leases for three Airbus A-320 aircraft. PMCC s leases for 19 aircraft with Delta Air Lines,
Inc. ( Delta ) were sold in early 2007.            The activity in the
allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 was as follows (in millions):         
          The net impact to the allowance
for losses in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related primarily to various airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In addition,
PMCC recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged to earnings and written-off in the allowance for losses in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the year ended
December 31, 2007. As a result of the $200 million charge in 2005, PMCC s fixed charges coverage ratio did not meet its 1.25:1 requirement under a support agreement with ALG. Accordingly, as required by the support agreement, a support
payment of $150 million was made by ALG to PMCC in September 2005. It is possible that additional adverse developments may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses. Acceleration of taxes on the foreclosures of leveraged leases written-off
amounted to approximately $50 million and $80 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no foreclosures in 2005.            The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and
issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all
conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease
transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and
subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue
Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend
against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments
and associated interest. However, should PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from
the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No.
FAS 13-2.         
   -13-   

Table of Contents  

    Business Environment             Portions of the information called for by this Item are hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Operating Results by Business Segment Financial Services  on pages 37 to 38 of the 2007 Annual Report and made a part hereof.             Other Matters              Customers             None of the business segments of the Altria family of companies is dependent upon a single customer or a few customers, the loss of which would have a material
adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations.             Employees             At December 31, 2007, ALG and its
subsidiaries employed approximately 84,000 people worldwide. During 2007, 2006 and 2005 PMI announced plans for the streamlining of various administrative functions and operations. The streamlining of these various functions and operations are
expected to result in the elimination of approximately 3,400 positions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 2,400 of these positions have been eliminated.             Research and Development             The research and development expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 are set forth in Note 17.  Additional Information  to Altria
Group, Inc. s financial statements, which is incorporated herein by reference to the 2007 Annual Report.             Trademarks             Trademarks are of material
importance to ALG s consumer products subsidiaries and are protected by registration or otherwise in the United States and most other markets where the related products are sold.             Environmental Regulation             ALG and its subsidiaries are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment,
or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States; the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
(commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party. In 2007, subsidiaries (or former subsidiaries) of ALG were involved in one matter subjecting them to potential remediation costs under
Superfund or other laws and regulations. ALG s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. Although it is not possible to predict precise levels of
environmental-related expenditures, compliance with such laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs and the making of such expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position, earnings or competitive position.         
   -14-   

Table of Contents  

     (d) Financial Information About Geographic Areas              The amounts of net revenues and long-lived assets attributable to each of Altria Group, Inc. s geographic segments and the amount
of export sales from the United States for each of the last three fiscal years are set forth in Note 15.            Subsidiaries of ALG export tobacco and tobacco-related products. In 2007, net revenues from all exports from the United States by these subsidiaries amounted to
approximately $2.6 billion.              (e) Available Information
             ALG is required to file annual, quarterly and special reports,
proxy statements and other information with the SEC. Investors may read and copy any document that ALG files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.
Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and
other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access ALG s SEC filings.            ALG makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com), its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably practicable after ALG electronically files such material
with, or furnishes it to, the SEC. Investors can access ALG s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.            The information on ALG s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings ALG makes with the SEC.

Item 1A.   
      Risk Factors.                   The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual
Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report.
            We* may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking
statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy, 
 expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates,   intends,   projects,   goals,   targets  and other words
of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.            We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of
future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated,
estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection          

*  
  This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among ALG and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction
is clear from the context.           
   -15-   

Table of Contents  

with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the
aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and
other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses. You should understand that it is not possible to predict
or identify all risk factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.
            Tobacco-Related Litigation . There is substantial litigation
related to tobacco products in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant, and in certain cases, range into the billions of dollars. We anticipate that new cases
will continue to be filed. It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Although PM
USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be
obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 42 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.            It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of PM USA, PMI or Altria Group, Inc. could be materially affected in a
particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes the litigation environment has substantially improved.
ALG and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of
adverse verdicts against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. However, ALG and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of ALG s
stockholders to do so. Please see Note 19 of our consolidated financial statements, Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  and Exhibit 99.1, for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.             Corporate Restructuring . On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors of ALG
authorized the spin-off of PMI to ALG shareholders. The distribution will be made on March 28, 2008 to ALG shareholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on March 19, 2008. It is possible that an action may be brought seeking to
enjoin the spin-off. Any such injunction would have to be based on a finding that Altria is insolvent or would be insolvent after giving effect to the spin-off or intends to delay, hinder or defraud creditors. In the event the spin-off is
challenged, ALG will defend such action vigorously, including by prosecuting any necessary appeals. Although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes that Altria should ultimately prevail against such action.             Tobacco Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors . Our tobacco
subsidiaries face significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of smoking, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on warnings and disclosure of ingredients and flavors and seeking to hold us
responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have
resulted in reduced industry volume, and we expect that such actions will continue to reduce consumption levels. Significant regulatory developments will take place over the next few years in most of PMI s markets, driven principally by the
World Health Organization s Framework Convention for Tobacco Control, or FCTC. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty, and its objective is to establish a global agenda  
       
   -16-   

Table of Contents  

for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation. In addition, the FCTC has led to increased efforts by tobacco
control advocates and public health organizations to reduce the palatability and appeal of tobacco products to adult smokers.            Regulatory initiatives affecting our tobacco subsidiaries that have been proposed, introduced or enacted include:         

the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges;            

restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship;            

the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements;            

restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging;            

restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines;      

requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents levels;            

requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients and flavors;            

increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors;            

implementation of measures that ensure that descriptive terms do not create the false impression that one brand of cigarettes is safer than another;

elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and            

encouraging litigation against tobacco companies.               Partly because of some or a combination of these measures, unit sales of tobacco products in certain markets, principally Western Europe and Japan, have been in
general decline and PMI expects this trend to continue. PMI s operating income could be significantly affected by any significant decrease in demand for its products, any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory
requirements and requirements that lead to a commoditization of tobacco products.             Excise Taxes . Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and to substantial taxation abroad. Significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are
likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States, the Member States of the European Union (the  EU ) and in other foreign jurisdictions. For example, legislation was passed by the United States Congress in 2007 that
would increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.61 a pack. The President vetoed this legislation. It is not possible to predict whether such legislation will be reintroduced and become law. In addition, in certain jurisdictions, PMI s
products are subject to tax structures that discriminate against premium priced products and manufactured cigarettes and to inconsistent rulings and interpretations on complex methodologies to determine excise and other tax burdens.            Tax increases and discriminatory tax structures are expected to continue to have an
adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and
contraband products.             Minimum Retail Selling Price Laws . Several
EU Member States have enacted laws establishing a minimum retail selling price for cigarettes and, in some cases, other tobacco products. The European  
       
   -17-   

Table of Contents  

Commission has commenced infringement proceedings against these Member States, claiming that minimum retail selling price systems infringe EU law. If the European
Commission s actions are successful, they could adversely impact excise tax levels and/or price gaps in those markets.             Increased Competition in the United States Tobacco Market . Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States have resulted in substantial
cigarette price increases. PM USA faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may fail to comply
with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers 
cigarettes sold in such states. Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes
by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands.         
   International Competition . PMI competes primarily on the basis of product quality, taste, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing,
advertising and price. PMI is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its business. The competitive environment and PMI s competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer
confidence, competitors  introduction of low priced products or innovative products, higher cigarette taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and products regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate
tobacco products. Competitors include three large international tobacco companies and several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, government-owned tobacco monopolies, principally in the PRC, Egypt, Thailand, Taiwan and
Algeria. Industry consolidation and privatizations of governmental monopolies have led to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives and some international competitors are less
susceptible to changes in currency exchange rates.             Counterfeit
Cigarettes in International Markets . Large quantities of counterfeit cigarettes are sold in the international market. PMI believes that  Marlboro  is the most heavily counterfeited international cigarette brand, although PMI cannot quantify
the amount of revenue it loses as a result of this activity. In addition, PMI s revenues are reduced by contraband and legal cross-border transactions.             Governmental Investigations . From time to time, ALG and its tobacco subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. Ongoing
investigations include allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes, allegations of unlawful pricing activities within certain international markets and false or misleading usage of descriptors such as  Lights  and  Ultra
Lights.  We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations or whether additional investigations may be commenced, and it is possible that our tobacco subsidiaries  businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of
pending or future investigations.             New Tobacco Product
Technologies . Our tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new product technologies that may reduce the risk of tobacco use while continuing to offer adult consumers products that meet their taste expectations.
Potential solutions being researched include attempting to reduce constituents in tobacco smoke identified by public health authorities as harmful and seeking to produce products that reduce or eliminate exposure to tobacco smoke. Our tobacco
subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed, but one or more of their competitors do, our tobacco subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators will permit the marketing of
products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, which could significantly undermine the commercial viability of any products that might be developed.         
   -18-   

Table of Contents  

    Adjacency Strategy . ALG, PM USA and PMI have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves
into complementary tobacco or tobacco-related products or processes. We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful.             Foreign Currency . PMI conducts its business in local currency and, for purposes
of financial reporting, its results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced
because the local currency will translate into fewer U.S. dollars. During periods of economic crises internationally, foreign currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. dollar, reducing PMI s margins. Actions to recover margins
may result in lower volume and a weaker competitive position for PMI.             Tobacco Availability and Quality . Government mandated prices, production control programs, shifts in crops driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns may increase or decrease the cost or reduce the quality of tobacco
and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products. As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf and cloves can be influenced by imbalances in supply and demand and crop quality can be influenced by variations
in weather patterns. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including governmental mandated prices and production control programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products could
cause farmers to plant less tobacco. Any significant change in tobacco leaf and clove prices, quality and quantity could affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business.             Attracting and Retaining Talent . Our ability to implement our strategy of
attracting and retaining the best global talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of cigarette smoking. The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products and other companies that enjoy greater societal
acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best global talent.             Competition and Economic Downturns . Each of our tobacco subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and local economic
conditions. To be successful, they must continue to:         

promote brand equity successfully;            

anticipate and respond to new consumer trends;            

develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower priced products;            

improve productivity; and            

be able to protect or enhance margins through price increases.               The willingness of consumers to purchase premium cigarette brands depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods of economic uncertainty, consumers tend
to purchase more private label and other economy brands, and the volume of our consumer products subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.            Our finance subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment
and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If counterparties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for
losses, which would adversely affect our profitability.         
   -19-   

Table of Contents  

    Acquisitions . One element of PMI s growth strategy is to strengthen its brand portfolio and/or expand
its geographic reach through active programs of selective acquisitions. ALG and PM USA from time to time consider acquisitions as part of their adjacency strategy, as evidenced by ALG s 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. Acquisition
opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to
continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms or that all future acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.             Asset Impairment . We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by
the market conditions noted above, as well as interest rates and general economic conditions. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.             IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases . The IRS concluded its examination of Altria
Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions
for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will
continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s
leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions). PMCC believes that the
position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the
IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower
its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this
matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.         

Item 1B.       
    Unresolved Staff Comments.                   None.         

Item 2.       
    Properties.                   PM USA owns and operates six tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities   five in the Richmond, Virginia area and one in Cabarrus County, North Carolina.
In addition, PM USA owns and operates a research and technology center in Richmond, Virginia. In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette
production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate
manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe by October 2008 and PM USA will close
its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.         
   -20-   

Table of Contents  

   Subsidiaries and affiliates of PMI own and operate 59 cigarette or component manufacturing facilities in 32
countries outside the United States. In addition, subsidiaries and affiliates of PMI operate two leased manufacturing facilities, one in Korea and one in Mexico, and maintained 20 contractual manufacturing relationships with third parties. In 2007,
16 of the PMI facilities each manufactured over 10 billion cigarettes and an additional 8 facilities each produced over 30 billion units. PMI s largest factories are in Bergen-op-Zoom (Holland); Izhora-St. Petersburg (Russia), Berlin (Germany),
Izmir (Turkey), Krakow (Poland), Kharkiv (Ukraine), Tanauan (Philippines), Krasnodar (Russia), Albarraque (Portugal) and Neuchatel (Switzerland). PMI is currently in the process of integrating the four Lakson Tobacco factories in Pakistan, and
constructing new factories in Greece and Indonesia. All of PMI s factories are in excellent working order with the exception of Karachi (Pakistan), which was recently damaged by fire, but is expected to be operational again later this year.
           John Middleton, Inc. owns and operates two manufacturing facilities
  one in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania and one in Limerick, Pennsylvania.            The plants and properties, owned or leased, operated by ALG s subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate for present needs.         

Item 3.   
      Legal Proceedings.                   Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against ALG, its subsidiaries and
affiliates, including PM USA and PMI, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement,
employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.         
   -21-   

Table of Contents  

    Overview of Tobacco-Related Litigation              Types and Number of Cases             Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of
individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including
cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking
reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive
and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), and (v) other tobacco-related litigation described below. Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related
litigation are significant, and in certain cases, range into the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary
relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and Lights/Ultra Lights cases are
discussed below.            The table below lists the number of certain
tobacco-related cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, ALG or PMI, as of February 15, 2008, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and a page-reference to further discussions of each type of case.

(1)  
  Does not include 2,622 cases brought by flight attendants seeking compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ). The
flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action, which was settled in 1997. The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory
damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages. Also, does not include nine individual smoking and health cases brought against certain retailers that are indemnitees of PM USA. Additionally, does not include approximately 1,540 individual
smoking and health cases brought by or on behalf of approximately 8,016 plaintiffs in Florida following the decertification of the  Engle  case discussed below. It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates and additional cases have
been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets.           

(2)  
    Includes as one case the aggregated claims of 728 individuals (of which 414 individuals have claims against PM USA) that are proposed to be tried in a single proceeding in
West Virginia. John Middleton, Inc. was named as a defendant in this action but it, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers have been severed from this case. The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals  
          
   -22-   

Table of Contents  

has ruled that the United States Constitution does not preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Issues related to defendants  conduct, plaintiffs 
entitlement to punitive damages and a punitive damages multiplier, if any, would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, and compensatory damages. In November 2007, the
West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals denied defendants  renewed motion for review of the trial plan. In December 2007, defendants filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court which was denied on February 25,
2008. In February 2008, the court granted Defendants  motion to stay the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good v. Altria Group, Inc. et al.,  discussed below.               There are also a number of other tobacco-related actions pending outside the United
States against PMI and its affiliates and subsidiaries, including an estimated 133 individual smoking and health cases as of February 15, 2008 (Argentina (57), Australia (2), Brazil (51), Chile (12), Costa Rica (1), Greece (1), Italy (4), the
Philippines (1), Poland (3) and Scotland (1)), compared with approximately 137 such cases on December 31, 2006, and approximately 137 such cases on December 31, 2005. In addition, in Italy, 2,021 cases are pending in the Italian
equivalent of small claims court where damages are limited to      2,000 per case, and three cases are pending in Finland against an indemnitee of a subsidiary of
PMI.            In addition, as of February 15, 2008, there were three smoking
and health putative class actions pending outside the United States against PMI or its affiliates in Brazil (2) and Israel compared with two such cases on December 31, 2006, and three such cases on December 31, 2005. The case in
Israel was dismissed on appeal in January 2008, but plaintiff may seek reconsideration of the dismissal on appeal. Eight health care cost recovery actions are pending in Nigeria (5), Israel (1), Canada (1) and Spain (1), against PMI or its
affiliates, and two Lights/Ultra Lights class actions are pending in Israel. PM USA is also a named defendant in the smoking and health putative class action in Israel, a  Lights  class action in Israel and health care cost recovery
actions in Israel and Canada.            Also, as of February 15, 2008, there
were nine  public civil actions  pending outside the United States against PMI or its affiliates in Argentina (1), Brazil (3), Colombia (4), and Turkey (1) compared with three such actions on December 31, 2006, and one such
action on December 31, 2005. Public civil actions are claims filed either by an individual, or a public or private entity, seeking to protect a variety of collective or individual rights. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief
including injunctive relief such as banning cigarettes, descriptors, smoking in certain places and advertising, as well as implementing communication campaigns and reimbursement of medical expenses incurred by public or private institutions.
            Pending and Upcoming Trials             As of February 15, 2008, 11 individual smoking and health cases against PM USA
are scheduled for trial through the end of 2008. Cases against other tobacco companies are also scheduled for trial through the end of 2008. Trial dates are subject to change.             Recent Trial Results             Since January 1999, verdicts have been returned in 45 smoking and health, Lights/Ultra Lights and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant.
Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in 28 of the 45 cases. These 28 cases were tried in California (4), Florida (9), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania
(1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (2), and West Virginia (1). Plaintiffs  appeals or post-trial motions challenging the verdicts are pending in California, the District of Columbia and Florida. A motion for a new trial has been granted in one of
the cases in Florida. In addition, in December 2002, a court dismissed an individual smoking and health case in California at the end of trial.         
   -23-   

Table of Contents  

   In July 2005, a jury in Tennessee returned a verdict in favor of PM USA in a case in which plaintiffs had
challenged PM USA s retail promotional and merchandising programs under the Robinson-Patman Act.            Of the 17 cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs, eight have reached final resolution. A verdict against defendants in one health care cost
recovery case has been reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported Lights class action in Illinois has been reversed and the case has been dismissed with prejudice. After exhausting
all appeals, PM USA has paid judgments totaling $73,544,957, and interest totaling $35,053,101.            The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the nine pending cases that have gone to trial since January 1999 in which verdicts were returned
in favor of plaintiffs.         

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      
 
  May 2007  
      
  California/  Whiteley   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  Approximately $2.5 million in compensatory damages against PM USA and the other defendant in the case, as well as $250,000 in punitive damages against the other defendant in the case.  
      
  In July 2007, the trial court granted plaintiff s motion for a limited re-trial against PM USA on the question of whether plaintiffs are entitled to punitive damages against PM USA, and if so, the
amount. On October 31, 2007, the jury found that plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages against PM USA. In November, the trial court entered final judgment and PM USA filed a motion for a new trial and for judgment notwithstanding the
verdict. The trial court rejected these motions on January 24, 2008. Defendants intend to appeal.   

August 2006  
      
  District of Columbia/  United States of America   
      
  Health Care Cost Recovery  
      
  Finding that defendants, including ALG and PM USA, violated the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). No monetary damages assessed,  
      
  Defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals in September 2006, and the Department of Justice filed its notice of appeal in October 2006. In October 2006, a three-judge panel
of the   
       
   -24-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

but court made specific findings and issued injunctions. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.  
      
  Court of Appeals stayed implementation of the trial court s remedies order pending its review of the decision. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants 
post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court s remedial order. Briefing of the parties  consolidated appeal is scheduled to conclude in May 2008. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.   

March 2005  
      
  New York/  Rose   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $3.42 million in compensatory damages against two defendants, including PM USA, and $17.1 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  PM USA s appeal is pending.   

May 2004  
      
  Louisiana/  Scott   
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  Approximately $590 million against all defendants, including PM USA, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.  
      
  In June 2004, the state trial court entered judgment in the amount of the verdict of $590 million, plus prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. As of February 15, 2007,
the amount of prejudgment interest was approximately $444 million. PM USA s share of the verdict and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal upheld the

-25-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

class certification and finding of liability, but reduced the judgment by approximately $312 million and vacated the award of prejudgment interest. The Court of Appeal also remanded the case to the trial
court with instructions to further reduce the remaining $279 million judgment to eliminate amounts awarded to any individual who began smoking after the Louisiana Product Liability Act became effective on September 1, 1988. In March 2007, the
Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants  motion for rehearing and clarification. Plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for writ of certiorari with the Louisiana Supreme Court were denied in January 2008. Following this denial,
PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case. See  Scott Class Action  below.   

October 2002  
      
  California/  Bullock   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $850,000 in compensatory damages and $28 billion in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In December 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $28 million. In April 2006, the California Court of Appeal affirmed the $28 million punitive damages award. On January 30, 2008, the
California Court of   
       
   -26-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the
amount of punitive damages. See discussion (1) below.   

June 2002  
      
    Florida/      Lukacs    
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $37.5 million in compensatory damages against all defendants, including PM USA.  
      
  In March 2003, the trial court reduced the damages award to $24.86 million. PM USA s share of the damages award is approximately $6 million. The court has not yet entered the judgment on the jury
verdict. In January 2007, defendants petitioned the trial court to set aside the jury s verdict and dismiss plaintiffs  punitive damages claim. On August 1, 2007, the trial court deferred ruling on plaintiffs  motion for entry of
judgment until after the United States Supreme Court s review of  Engle  is complete and after further submissions by the parties. If a judgment is entered in this case, PM USA intends to appeal.   

March 2002  
      
  Oregon/  Schwarz   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $168,500 in compensatory damages and $150 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In May 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $100 million. In May 2006, the   
       
   -27-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive
damages, if any. In June 2006, plaintiff petitioned the Oregon Supreme Court to review the portion of the Court of Appeals  decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages. In October 2006, the Oregon Supreme Court
announced that it would hold this petition in abeyance until the United States Supreme Court decided the  Williams  case discussed below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams 
and remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings consistent with its decision. The parties have submitted their briefs to the Oregon Supreme Court setting forth their respective views on how the  Williams  decision impacts the
plaintiff s pending petition for review.   
       
   -28-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

July 2000  
      
    Florida/      Engle    
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  $145 billion in punitive damages against all defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA.  
      
  In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, that certain Phase I trial court findings be allowed
to stand as against the defendants in individual actions that individual former class members may bring within one year of the issuance of the mandate, compensatory damage awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual class members be
reinstated and that a third former class member s claim was barred by the statute of limitations. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court denied all motions by the parties for rehearing but issued a revised opinion. In January 2007, the
Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised December opinion and defendants filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting the court s review of legal errors previously raised but not ruled upon. This
motion was denied in February 2007. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay   
       
   -29-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme
Court. On October 1, 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial of their petition for certiorari.
See  Engle Class Action  below. On February 8, 2008, PM USA paid a total of $2,964,685, which represents its share of compensatory damages and interest, to the two individual plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order.
As of the January 11, 2008 deadline for bringing an action, approximately 1,540 individual smoking and health cases have been brought by or on behalf of approximately 8,016 plaintiffs in Florida following the Florida Supreme Court s
decertification decision. It is possible that some of these cases are duplicates and additional cases have been filed but not yet   
       
   -30-   

Table of Contents  

Date     
      
     Location of Court/ Name of Plaintiff     
      
     Type of Case     
      
     Verdict     
      
     Post-Trial Developments      

recorded on the courts  dockets. On February 14, 2008, the trial court decertified the class and formally vacated the punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s
mandate.   

March 1999  
      
  Oregon/  Williams   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $800,000 in compensatory damages, $21,500 in medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  See discussion (2) below.   

(1)  
    Bullock :  In August 2006, the California Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition to overturn the trial court s reduction of the punitive damages award and granted PM
USA s petition for review challenging the punitive damages award. The court granted review of the case on a  grant and hold  basis under which further action by the court is deferred pending the United States Supreme Court s
decision on punitive damages in the  Williams  case described below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings
consistent with its decision. Parties to the appeal in  Bullock  requested that the court establish a briefing schedule on the merits of the pending appeal. In May 2007, the California Supreme Court transferred the case to the Second District
of the California Court of Appeal with directions that the court vacate its 2006 decision and reconsider the case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams.  On January 30, 2008, the California Court of
Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive damages.

(2)  
      Williams :  The trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $32 million, and PM USA and plaintiff appealed. In June 2002, the Oregon Court of Appeals
reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. Following the Oregon Supreme Court s refusal to hear PM USA s appeal, PM USA recorded a provision of $32 million in connection with this case and petitioned the United States Supreme
Court for further review. In October 2003, the United States Supreme Court set aside the Oregon appellate court s ruling and directed the Oregon court to reconsider the case in light of the 2003  State Farm  decision by the United States
Supreme Court, which limited punitive damages. In June 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. In February 2006, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals  decision. Following
this decision, PM USA recorded an additional provision of approximately $25 million in interest charges related to this case. The United States Supreme Court granted PM USA s petition for writ of certiorari in May 2006. In February 2007, the
United States Supreme Court vacated the $79.5 million punitive damages award, holding that the United States Constitution prohibits basing punitive damages awards on harm to non-parties. The Court also found that states must assure
that appropriate procedures are in place so that juries are provided with proper legal guidance as to the constitutional limitations on awards of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for further

-31-   

Table of Contents  

proceedings consistent with this decision. On January 31, 2008, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Oregon Court of Appeals  June 2004 decision, which in
turn, upheld the jury s compensatory damage award and reinstated the jury s award of $79.5 million in punitive damages. PM USA intends to seek further review by the United States Supreme Court.               In addition to the cases discussed above, in October 2003, a three-judge appellate
panel in Brazil reversed a lower court s dismissal of an individual smoking and health case and ordered PMI s Brazilian affiliate to pay plaintiff approximately $433,000 and other unspecified damages. PMI s Brazilian affiliate
appealed. In December 2004, the three-judge panel s decision was vacated by an  en banc  panel of the appellate court, which upheld the trial court s dismissal of the case. The case is currently on appeal to the Brazilian Superior
Court.            With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as
of February 15, 2008, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $193 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. The cash deposits are
included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.             Engle Class Action  
           In July 2000, in the second phase of the  Engle  smoking and
health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately $145 billion against various defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA posted a bond in the
amount of $100 million and appealed.            In May 2001, the trial court
approved a stipulation providing that execution of the punitive damages component of the  Engle  judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the
stipulation, PM USA placed $500 million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with
Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow account, which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In addition, the $100 million bond related to the case has been discharged. The
$1.2 billion escrow account and the deposit of $100 million related to the bonding requirement were included in the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as other assets. Interest income on the $1.2 billion escrow account, prior to its
return to PM USA, was paid to PM USA quarterly and was being recorded as earned in interest and other debt expense, net, in the consolidated statements of earnings. In connection with the stipulation, PM USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in
its consolidated statement of earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of
the class. Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.            In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against
defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled to  res judicata  effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate:
(i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material
information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that all defendants agreed to misrepresent
information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to  
       
   -32-   

Table of Contents  

conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their
detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that all defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated compensatory damage awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual
plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations. On February 8, 2008, PM USA paid a total of $2,964,685, which represents its shares of compensatory damages and interest to the two individual
plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order.            In
August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have res judicata effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by
 Engle  class members. The rehearing motion also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also
filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except
that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to res judicata effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at
the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations of fact made by defendants. On January 11, 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third
District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Third District or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District
Court of Appeal denied defendants  motion. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a
petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. On October 1, 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for
rehearing from the denial of their petition for writ of certiorari.            By
the January 11, 2008 deadline required by the Florida Supreme Court s decision, approximately 1,540 cases had been served upon PM USA or ALG asserting individual claims on or on behalf of approximately 8,016 plaintiffs. It is possible that
some of these cases are duplicates and additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets. Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state courts to the federal district courts in Florida, while others
were filed in federal court. In July 2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in the federal courts, as well as any other  Engle  progeny cases that may be
filed, to the Middle District of Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007. In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate all pending and future cases filed in the state trial court
in Hillsborough County. The court denied this motion in November 2007. On February 14, 2008, the trial court decertified the class and formally vacated the punitive damage award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate.   
         Scott Class Action             In July 2003, following the first phase of the trial in the  Scott  class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund
to pay for medical monitoring and smoking cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in connection with plaintiffs  medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit
from smoking cessation assistance. The jury also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to disclose all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the
second phase of the trial, the jury awarded plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all defendants jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.         
   -33-   

Table of Contents  

   In June 2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award plus
prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. As of February 15, 2007, the amount of prejudgment interest was approximately $444 million. PM USA s share of the jury award and prejudgment interest has not been allocated.
Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance with an article of the Louisiana Code of Civil
Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the  bond cap law ), fixing the amount of security in civil cases involving a signatory to the MSA (as defined below). Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve the right to contest, at a
later date, the sufficiency or amount of the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the bond cap law. In September 2004, defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million.            In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants 
appeal that, among other things: affirmed class certification but limited the scope of the class; struck certain of the categories of damages that comprised the judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the
award of prejudgment interest, which totaled approximately $444 million as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the only class members who are eligible to participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and
whose claims accrued by, September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana Court of Appeal remanded for proceedings consistent with its opinion, including further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March
2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants  motion for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for writ of certiorari. Following the Louisiana
Supreme Court s denial of defendants  petition for writ of certiorari, PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case.             Smoking and Health Litigation              Overview             Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to
warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering
statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health actions seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation
funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by
the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.             Smoking and Health Class Actions
            Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class
action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of residents of a
particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.            Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 57 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), the
District of Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina
(1), Texas (1) and Wisconsin (1). A class remains certified in the  Scott  class action discussed above.         
   -34-   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to the cases brought in the United States, three smoking and health class actions have been brought
against tobacco industry participants, including certain PMI subsidiaries in Brazil (2) and Israel (1). In one class action in Brazil, a consumer organization is seeking damages for smokers and former smokers, and injunctive relief. The trial
court found in favor of the plaintiff in February 2004. The court awarded R$1,000 (currently approximately U.S. $560) per smoker per full year of smoking for moral damages plus interest at the rate of 1% per month, as of the date of the ruling.
Actual damages are to be assessed in a second phase of the case. The size of the class is currently unknown. Defendants appealed the decision to the Sao Paulo Court of Appeals and the case, including the judgment, is currently stayed pending appeal.
In addition, the defendants filed a constitutional appeal to the Federal Supreme Court on the basis that the consumer association does not have standing to bring the lawsuit. Both appeals are pending.            There are currently pending two purported class actions against PM USA brought in New
York ( Caronia,  filed in January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York) and Massachusetts ( Donovan , filed in March 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts) on
behalf of each state s respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the Marlboro brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under examination by a physician for suspected lung cancer.
Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT Scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung
cancer. Neither claim seeks punitive damages. Plaintiffs  motion for class certification is pending in  Caronia.              Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation              Overview             In health care cost recovery litigation, domestic and foreign governmental entities and non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of
future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of
research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.         
  The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs allegedly
attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance,
claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.            Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state
a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and
injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs benefit
economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment. Under traditional theories
of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any
actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.         
   -35-   

Table of Contents  

   Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial decisions have dismissed all or most health
care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and six state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of
health care cost recovery actions. The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.            In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery case to go to trial, an Ohio jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on
all counts. In addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York, and all claims were dismissed with prejudice in February 2005 ( Blue
Cross/Blue Shield ). The trial in the health care cost recovery case brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 50 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA and ALG are defendants, is scheduled to begin in January 2010.            Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private
attorneys general under the Medicare As Secondary Payer statute to recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases. Cases brought in New York ( Mason ), Florida ( Glover ) and
Massachusetts ( United Seniors Association ) have been dismissed by federal courts, and plaintiffs  appealed in  United Seniors Association . In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit affirmed the
district court s dismissal in  United Seniors Association . In November 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied on January 22, 2008.            In addition to the cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery
actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA, PMI and certain PMI subsidiaries in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (1 dismissed), Canada (1), France (1 dismissed), Spain (1) and Nigeria (5) and
other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In September 2005, in the case in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a
result, the case which had previously been dismissed by the trial court was permitted to proceed. PM USA, PMI and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of
British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision. Several other provinces in Canada have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation.             Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation             In November 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers
entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) with 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care
cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement
Agreements ). The State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make substantial annual payments of $9.4 billion each year (excluding future annual payments, if any, under the National Tobacco Grower
Settlement Trust discussed below), subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys 
fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million.            The State Settlement
Agreements also include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities
and other provisions.         
   -36-   

Table of Contents  

    Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003, 2004 and 2005             Pursuant to the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the
MSA, Original Participating Manufacturers ( OPMs ), are participating in proceedings that may result in downward adjustments to the amounts paid by the OPMs and the other MSA participating manufacturers to the states and territories that
are parties to the MSA for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. The proceedings are based on the collective loss of market share for 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, by all manufacturers who are subject to the payment obligations and marketing
restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) who are not subject to such obligations and restrictions.            In these proceedings, an independent economic consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were
a  significant factor  contributing to the collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the firm determines that the disadvantages of the MSA were such a  significant factor,  each state may avoid a downward
adjustment to its share of the participating manufacturers  annual payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be
reallocated to those states that do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA s arbitration clause requires a state to submit its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration
before a panel of three former federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA. A number of states have taken the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.            In March of 2006, an independent economic consulting firm determined that the
disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a
significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2004. In February 2008, the same economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor
contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2005. Following the economic consulting firm s determination with respect to 2003, thirty-eight states filed declaratory judgment actions in
state courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers have responded to these actions by filing motions to compel arbitration in accordance with the
terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven MSA states and territories that have not filed declaratory judgment actions. Courts in over 45 states have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its
escrow statute during 2003 is subject to arbitration and only one state court ruling to the contrary currently stands, and it remains subject to appeal. Many of these rulings, including the one ruling against arbitration, remain subject to appeal or
further review. Additionally, Ohio filed a declaratory judgment action in state court with respect to the 2004 diligent enforcement issue. The action has been stayed pending the decision about the 2003 payments.            The availability and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003, 2004 and 2005
will not be finally determined until late 2008 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment as a result of these proceedings. If the OPMs do receive such an
adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA s provisions, and PM USA s share would likely be applied as a credit against a future MSA payment.             National Grower Settlement Trust             As part of the MSA, the settling defendants committed to work cooperatively with the tobacco-growing states to address concerns about
the potential adverse economic impact of the MSA on  
       
   -37-   

Table of Contents  

tobacco growers and quota holders. To that end, in 1999, four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, established the National Tobacco
Grower Settlement Trust ( NTGST ), a trust fund to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. The trust was to be funded by these four manufacturers over 12 years with payments, prior to application of various adjustments, scheduled
to total $5.15 billion. Provisions of the NTGST allowed for offsets to the extent that industry-funded payments were made for the benefit of growers or quota holders as part of a legislated end to the federal tobacco quota and price support program.
           In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004
( FETRA ) was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out, which is estimated
at approximately $9.5 billion, is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco
product. The quota buy-out payments offset already scheduled payments to the NTGST. However, two of the grower states, Maryland and Pennsylvania, have filed claims in the North Carolina state courts, asserting that the companies which established
the NTGST (including PM USA) must continue making payments under the NTGST through 2010 for the benefit of Maryland and Pennsylvania growers (such continuing payments would represent slightly more than one percent of the originally scheduled
payments that would have been due to the NTGST for the years 2005 through 2010) notwithstanding the offsets resulting from the FETRA payments. The North Carolina trial court has held in favor of Maryland and Pennsylvania, and the companies
(including PM USA) have appealed. In addition to the approximately $9.5 billion cost of the buy-out, FETRA also obligated manufacturers and importers of tobacco products to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government incurred on the
disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. PM USA has paid $138 million for its share of the tobacco pool stock losses. The quota buy-out did not have a material adverse impact on ALG s
consolidated results in 2007. ALG does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2008 and beyond.       
      Other MSA-Related Litigation             In June 2004, a putative class of California smokers filed a complaint against PM USA and the MSA s other OPMs seeking damages from the OPMs for post-MSA price
increases and an injunction against their continued compliance with the MSA s terms. The complaint alleges that the MSA and related legislation protect the OPMs from competition in a manner that violates federal and state antitrust and consumer
protection laws. The complaint also names the California Attorney General as a defendant and seeks to enjoin him from enforcing California s Escrow Statute. In March 2005, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California
granted defendants  motion to dismiss the case. In September 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the dismissal. On January 25, 2008, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United
States Supreme Court.            Without naming PM USA or any other private party
as a defendant, manufacturers that have elected not to sign the MSA ( Non-Participating Manufacturers  or  NPMs ) and/or their distributors or customers have filed several other legal challenges to the MSA and related
legislation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in which cigarette importers allege that the MSA and/or related legislation violates federal
antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court, plaintiffs assert the same theories against not only New York officials but also the Attorneys General for thirty other
states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on antitrust and Commerce Clause grounds and that the trial courts in New York have personal
jurisdiction  
       
   -38-   

Table of Contents  

sufficient to enjoin other states  officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in those two actions, one trial judge preliminarily enjoined
New York from enforcing its  allocable share  amendment to the MSA s Model Escrow Statute against the plaintiffs, while another trial judge refused to do so after concluding that the plaintiffs were unlikely to prove their
allegations. Summary judgment motions are pending in one of those cases.            In another action, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court s dismissal of challenges to MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States
Constitution. The case will now proceed to motions for summary judgment and, if necessary, a trial. Summary judgment proceedings in another challenge to Louisiana s participation in the MSA and its MSA-related legislation may begin in mid-2008.
Yet another proceeding has been initiated before an international arbitration tribunal under the provisions of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Appeals from trial court decisions holding that plaintiffs have failed either to make allegations
establishing a claim for relief or to submit evidence supporting those allegations are currently, or will soon be, pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth and Tenth Circuits. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit has affirmed the dismissal of two similar challenges.             Federal
Government s Lawsuit             In 1999, the United States government
filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including ALG, asserting claims under three federal statutes, the Medical Care Recovery Act
( MCRA ), the Medicare Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO. Trial of the case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs
for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs,
and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs total more than $20 billion annually. It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from
defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a declaration that the defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from
defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the government s MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil
provisions of RICO.            The government alleged that disgorgement by
defendants of approximately $280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an order denying defendants  motion for partial summary judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement
claim. In April 2005, the Court of Appeals denied the government s motion for rehearing. In July 2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review of the Court of Appeals  ruling that disgorgement is not an
available remedy, and in October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.            In June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation program and $4 billion
over a ten-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign. Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions in the smoking rate of
those under 21 are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business  
       
   -39-   

Table of Contents  

operations   including, but not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and
research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.            In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the government. The court held that certain defendants, including
ALG and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged. Specifically, the court found that:         

defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;            

defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;            

defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;            

defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;            

defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;            

defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and            

defendants suppressed scientific research.               The court did not impose monetary penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against  committing any act of
racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of the Council
for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or
deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes  (iv) an injunction
against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including  lights,   ultra lights  and  low tar,  which the
court found could cause consumers to believe a cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of
smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects
of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or
administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to
the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission, for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of any
cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs in bringing the action.            In September 2006, defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In
September 2006, the trial court denied defendants  motion to stay the judgment pending defendants  appeals, and defendants then filed an emergency motion with the Court of Appeals to stay enforcement of the judgment pending their appeals.
In October 2006, the government filed a notice of appeal to the Court of Appeals in which it appeals the denial of certain  
       
   -40-   

Table of Contents  

remedies, including the disgorgement of profits and the cessation remedies it had sought. In October 2006, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals
granted defendants  motion and stayed the trial court s judgment pending its review of the decision. Certain defendants, including PM USA and ALG, filed a motion to clarify the trial court s August 2006 Final Judgment and Remedial
Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants  post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court s remedial order. As noted above, the trial court s judgment and remedial order remain
stayed pending the appeal to the Court of Appeals. In May 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia scheduled briefing of the parties  consolidated appeal to begin in August 2007 and conclude in May 2008.   
         Lights/Ultra Lights Cases              Overview             Plaintiffs in these class actions (some of which have not been certified as such), allege, among other things, that the uses of the
terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages.
These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, ALG and PMI or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes, including  Marlboro Lights, Marlboro Ultra Lights,
Virginia Slims Lights  and  Superslims, Merit Lights  and  Cambridge Lights.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages, the statute of limitations, express preemption by
the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the Federal Trade Commission, non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory
directives, and the First Amendment. Seventeen cases are pending in Arkansas (2), Delaware (1), Florida (1), Illinois (1), Maine (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (1),
Oregon (1), Tennessee (1), and West Virginia (2). In addition, there are two cases pending in Israel. Other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions against ALG, PMI, and PM USA.            To date, 11 courts in 12 cases have refused to certify class actions, reversed prior
class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA. Trial courts in Arizona, Kansas, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington and New Jersey have refused to certify a class, an appellate court in Florida has overturned class
certification by a trial court, the Ohio Supreme Court has overturned class certifications in two cases, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has dismissed a purported Lights class action brought in Louisiana federal court
( Sullivan)  on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, a federal trial court in Maine has dismissed a purported class action on federal preemption grounds
( Good),  plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed an action in a federal trial court in Michigan after the court dismissed claims asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act, and the Supreme Court of Illinois has overturned a
judgment in favor of a plaintiff class in the  Price  case. The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court s grant of PM USA s motion for summary judgment in the  Good  case on federal
preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed proceedings pending the ruling of the United States Supreme Court on defendants  petition for a writ of certiorari, which the court granted on
January 18, 2008. The case has been stayed pending the United States Supreme Court s decision .  An intermediate appellate court in Oregon and the Supreme Court in Washington have denied plaintiffs  motions for interlocutory
review of the trial courts  refusals to certify a class. Plaintiffs in the Oregon case failed to appeal by the deadline for doing so and the trial court subsequently entered judgment against plaintiffs on the ground of express preemption under
the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act. In November, plaintiffs in that case ( Pearson)  filed a notice of appeal of the trial court s decisions with the Oregon  
       
   -41-   

Table of Contents  

Court of Appeals. In February 2008, the parties filed a joint motion to hold the appeal in abeyance pending the United States Supreme Court s decision in
 Good.  Plaintiffs in the case in Washington voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case renewed their motion for class certification, but the case has been stayed pending the United States Supreme
Court s decision in  Good . Plaintiffs in the Florida case ( Hines ) petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review, and on January 14, 2008, the Florida Supreme Court denied this petition.            Trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in Massachusetts ( Aspinall ),
Minnesota ( Curtis ), Missouri ( Craft ) and New York ( Schwab) . PM USA has appealed or otherwise challenged these class certification orders, and the appeal in  Schwab  is pending. In addition, the United States Supreme Court
has reversed the trial and appellate courts  rulings denying plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state trial court in a purported Lights class action brought in Arkansas ( Watson ). Developments in these cases include:

Watson:  In June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as
opposed to federal, trial court. The Supreme Court rejected defendants  contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute. The case has been remanded to the state trial court in Arkansas. In
December 2007, the court rejected the parties  proposed stipulation to stay the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision on defendants  petition for writ of certiorari in  Good,  which was granted on
January 18, 2008. A motion to reconsider this denial is pending.            

Aspinall:  In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order. In April 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion to redefine
the class to include all persons who after November 25, 1994 purchased packs or cartons of  Marlboro Lights  cigarettes in Massachusetts that displayed the legend  Lower Tar   Nicotine  (the original class definition did
not include a reference to lower tar and nicotine). In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on the state consumer protection statutory exemption and federal preemption. On motion of the parties, the
trial court has subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review and the trial court proceedings are stayed pending completion of the appellate review. Motions for direct appellate review with the
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court were granted in April 2007 and oral arguments were heard in January 2008. On January 31, 2008, the court invited the parties to address whether the case should be stayed pending the resolution of the United
States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.  In February 2008, the parties jointly agreed to stay the case pending the resolution of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.             

Curtis:  In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for interlocutory review of the trial court s class certification
order. In September 2005, PM USA removed  Curtis  to federal court based on the Eighth Circuit s decision in  Watson,  which upheld the removal of a Lights case to federal court based on the federal officer jurisdiction of the Federal
Trade Commission .  In February 2006, the federal court denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court. The case was stayed pending the outcome of  Dahl v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. , which was argued before the United
States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in December 2006. In February 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit issued its ruling in  Dahl , and reversed the federal district court s denial of plaintiffs 
motion to remand that case to the state trial court. On October 17, 2007, the district court remanded the  Curtis  case to state court. In December 2007, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the trial court s determination in
 Dahl  that plaintiffs  claims in that case were subject to express preemption and defendant in that case has petitioned the Minnesota Supreme Court for review. The case has been stayed pending the United States Supreme Court s
decision in  Good.             
   -42-   

Table of Contents  

Craft:  In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order. In September 2005, PM USA removed  Craft  to federal court based
on the Eighth Circuit s decision in  Watson.  In March 2006, the federal trial court granted plaintiffs  motion and remanded the case to the Missouri state trial court. In May 2006, the Missouri Supreme Court declined to review the
trial court s class certification decision.            

Schwab:  In September 2005, the trial court granted in part defendants  motion for partial summary judgment dismissing plaintiffs  claims for equitable
relief and denied a number of plaintiffs  motions for summary judgment. In November 2005, the trial court ruled that the plaintiffs would be permitted to calculate damages on an aggregate basis and use  fluid recovery  theories to
allocate them among class members. In September 2006, the trial court denied defendants  summary judgment motions and granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all United States residents that purchased
cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  light  or  lights  from the first date defendants began selling such cigarettes until the date trial commences. The court also declined to certify the order for interlocutory
appeal, declined to stay the case and ordered jury selection to begin in January 2007, with trial scheduled to begin immediately after the jury is impaneled. In October 2006, a single judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit granted PM USA s petition for a temporary stay of pre-trial and trial proceedings pending disposition of the petitions for stay and interlocutory review by a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals. In November 2006, the Second
Circuit granted interlocutory review of the trial court s class certification order and stayed the case before the trial court pending the appeal. Oral argument was heard on July 10, 2007.               In addition to these cases, in December 2005, in the  Miner  case which was
pending at that time in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas, plaintiffs moved for certification of a class composed of individuals who purchased  Marlboro Lights  or  Cambridge Lights  brands in Arkansas,
California, Colorado, and Michigan. PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on preemption and the Arkansas statutory exemption is pending. Following the filing of this motion, plaintiffs moved to voluntarily dismiss  Miner  without
prejudice, which PM USA opposed. The court then stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision on a petition for writ of certiorari in the  Watson  case discussed above. In July 2007, the case was remanded to a state
trial court in Arkansas. In August 2007, plaintiffs renewed their motion for class certification. In October 2007, the court denied PM USA s motion to dismiss on procedural grounds and the court entered a case management order. The case is
currently stayed pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.  In addition, plaintiffs  motion for class certification is pending in a case in Tennessee.             Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation               Tobacco Price Cases :  As of December 31, 2007, two cases were
pending in Kansas and New Mexico in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA and PMI, conspired to fix cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws. ALG and PMI are defendants in the case in Kansas. Plaintiffs  motions for
class certification have been granted in both cases. In February 2005, the New Mexico Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification decision. In June 2006, defendants  motion for summary judgment was granted in the New Mexico case.
Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case have appealed. The case in Kansas has been stayed pending the Kansas Supreme Court s decision on defendants  petition regarding certain discovery rulings by the trial court.              Cigarette Contraband Cases :  In May 2000 and August 2001, various
departments of Colombia and the European Community and 10 Member States filed suits in the United States against ALG and certain of its subsidiaries, including PM USA and PMI, and other cigarette manufacturers and their affiliates, alleging that
defendants sold to distributors cigarettes that would be illegally imported into  
       
   -43-   

Table of Contents  

various jurisdictions. In February 2002, the federal district court granted defendants  motions to dismiss the actions. In January 2004, the United States Court
of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissals of the cases based on the common law Revenue Rule, which bars a foreign government from bringing civil claims in U.S. courts for the recovery of lost taxes. It is possible that future
litigation related to cigarette contraband issues may be brought. In this regard, ALG believes that Canadian authorities are contemplating a legal proceeding based on an investigation of ALG entities relating to allegations of contraband shipments
of cigarettes into Canada in the early to mid-1990s.              Cases Under
the California Business and Professions Code :  In June 1997 and July 1998, two suits ( Brown  and  Daniels ) were filed in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have
violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices. Class certification was granted in both cases as to plaintiffs  claims that class members are entitled to
reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class periods and injunctive relief. In September 2002, the court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to all claims in one of the cases ( Daniels ), and
plaintiffs appealed. In October 2004, the California Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court s ruling, and also denied plaintiffs  motion for rehearing. In February 2005, the California Supreme Court agreed to hear
plaintiffs  appeal. In August 2007, the California Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal of the  Daniels  class action on federal preemption grounds. In December 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United
States Supreme Court.            In September 2004, the trial court in the  Brown
 case granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to plaintiffs  claims attacking defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants  motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs  claims based on
allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In March 2005, the court granted defendants  motion to decertify the class based on a recent change in California law, which, in two July 2006 opinions,
the California Supreme Court ruled applicable to pending cases. Plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and plaintiffs have appealed. In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed
the trial court s order decertifying the class in  Brown . In November 2006, the California Supreme Court accepted review of the appellate court s decision.       
     In May 2004, a lawsuit  (Gurevitch)  was filed in California state court on behalf of a purported class of all California residents who
purchased the  Merit  brand of cigarettes since July 2000 to the present alleging that defendants, including PM USA, violated California s Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent
business practices, including false and misleading advertising. The complaint also alleges violations of California s Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, disgorgement, restitution, and attorneys  fees. In July
2005, defendants  motion to dismiss was granted; however, plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend the complaint was also granted, and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in September 2005. In October 2005, the court stayed this action
pending the California Supreme Court s rulings on two cases not involving PM USA. In July 2006, the California Supreme Court issued rulings in the two cases and held that a recent change in California law known as Proposition 64, which
limits the ability to bring a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who have  suffered injury in fact  and  lost money or property  as a result of defendant s alleged statutory violations, properly applies to pending cases. In
September 2006, the stay was lifted and defendants filed their demurrer to plaintiffs  amended complaint. In March 2007, the court, without ruling on the demurrer, again stayed the action pending rulings from the California Supreme Court in
another case involving Proposition 64 that is relevant to PM USA s demurrer.         
   -44-   

Table of Contents  

    Certain Other Actions               IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases :  The IRS concluded its examination of ALG s consolidated tax returns for the
years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc.
has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these
leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS
Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR,
Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously
defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax
payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the
income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FASB Interpretation
No. 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.                   It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco
related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments
while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 42 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.
           ALG and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial
statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as discussed elsewhere in this Item 3,  Legal Proceedings , at the present time,
while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur: (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to
estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for
unfavorable outcomes, if any.            It is possible that PM USA s or
Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.
Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes the litigation environment has substantially improved. ALG and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling
the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. However, ALG and
its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of ALG s stockholders to do so.         
   -45-   

Table of Contents  

    Third-Party Guarantees             At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. s third-party guarantees, which are primarily related to excise taxes and
divestiture activities, were $72 million, of which $67 million have no specified expiration dates. The remainder expire through 2011, with none expiring during 2008. Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that
a third party fails to make contractual payments or achieve performance measures. Altria Group, Inc. has a liability of $22 million on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007, relating to these guarantees. For the remainder of these
guarantees there is no liability on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 as the fair value of these guarantees is insignificant, due to the fact that the probability of future payments under these guarantees is remote. In the
ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of ALG have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation.             
  Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.                 None.         
   -46-   

Table of Contents  

PART II          

Item 5.   
      Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.                 ALG s share repurchase activity for each of the three months ended
December 31, 2007, were as follows:         

(1)  
  The shares repurchased during the periods presented above represent shares tendered to ALG by employees who vested in restricted stock and rights, or exercised stock options, and used shares
to pay all, or a portion of, the related taxes and/or option exercise price.              The principal stock exchange, on which Altria Group, Inc. s common stock (par value $0.33   1   /  3   per share) is listed, is the New York Stock Exchange. At January 31, 2008, there were approximately 100,000 holders of record of Altria
Group, Inc. s common stock.             The other information called for
by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraph captioned  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)  on pages 89 to 90 of the 2007 Annual Report and made a part hereof.             
  Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.                 The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the information with respect to 2003-2007 appearing under the caption  Selected Financial Data  on page 47 of the 2007 Annual Report
and made a part hereof.         

Item 7.   
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.                 The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs captioned  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ( MD A ) on pages 18 to 46 of the 2007 Annual Report and made a part hereof.             
  Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.                 The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the paragraphs in the MD A captioned  Market Risk  and  Value at
Risk  on pages 42 to 43 of the 2007 Annual Report and made a part hereof.         
   -47-   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                 The information called for by this Item is hereby incorporated by reference to the 2007 Annual Report as set forth under the caption  Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)  on pages 89 to 90 and in the Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules (see Item 15) and made a part hereof.         

Item 9.   
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.                 None.             
  Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures.              

(a)  
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures              Altria Group, Inc. carried out an evaluation, with the participation of Altria Group, Inc. s management, including ALG s Chief Executive Officer and Chief
Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this report.
Based upon that evaluation, ALG s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures are effective. There have been no changes in Altria Group, Inc. s internal
control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting.            See Exhibit 13 for the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting and the
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm incorporated herein by reference.             
  Item 9B.    Other Information.                 None.         
   -48-   

Table of Contents  

PART III             Except for the information
relating to the executive officers set forth in Item 10 and the information relating to equity compensation plans set forth in Item 12, the information called for by Items 10-14 is hereby incorporated by reference to ALG s
definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of stockholders to be held on May 28, 2008 that will be filed with the SEC on or about April 24, 2008 (the  proxy statement ), and, except as indicated
therein, made a part hereof.             
  Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.                  Executive Officers as of February 29, 2008:          

Name     
      
     Office     
      
   Age      
 
    Andr  Calantzopoulos   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris International Inc.   
      
  51   
 
    Louis C. Camilleri   
      
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   
      
  53   
 
    Dinyar S. Devitre   
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
      
  60   
 
    Amy J. Engel   
      
    Vice President and Treasurer   
      
  51   
 
    David I. Greenberg   
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer   
      
  53   
 
    G. Penn Holsenbeck   
      
    Vice President, Associate General Counsel and Corporate Secretary   
      
  61   
 
    Steven C. Parrish   
      
    Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs   
      
  57   
 
    Walter V. Smith   
      
    Vice President, Taxes   
      
  64   
 
    Michael E. Szymanczyk   
      
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Philip Morris USA Inc.   
      
  59   
 
    Joseph A. Tiesi   
      
    Vice President and Controller   
      
  49   
 
    Charles R. Wall   
      
    Senior Vice President and General Counsel   
      
  62   
          All of the above-mentioned
officers have been employed by Altria Group, Inc. in various capacities during the past five years.             Codes of Conduct and Corporate Governance             Altria Group, Inc. has adopted the Altria Code of Conduct for Compliance and Integrity, which complies with requirements set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K. This Code of Conduct applies to all of its employees, including its
principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions. Altria Group, Inc. has also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the members of
its Board of Directors. These documents are available free of charge on ALG s website at www.altria.com and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 120 Park
Avenue, New York, NY 10017.            In addition, Altria Group, Inc. has adopted
corporate governance guidelines and charters for its Audit, Compensation and Nominating and Corporate Governance Committees and the other committees of the board of directors. All of these documents are available free of charge on ALG s website
at www.altria.com, are included in Altria Group, Inc. s definitive proxy statement, and will be provided free of charge to any stockholder requesting a copy by writing to: Corporate Secretary, Altria Group, Inc., 120 Park Avenue, New York, NY
10017. Any waiver granted by Altria Group, Inc. to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or controller under the code of ethics, or certain amendments to the code of ethics, will be disclosed on the Altria Group, Inc. s
website at www.altria.com.            On May 18, 2007, Altria Group, Inc.
filed its Annual CEO Certification as required by Section 303A.12 of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual.            The information on Altria Group, Inc. s website is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Report or incorporated into any other filings made with
the SEC.         
   -49-   

Table of Contents  

   On January 30, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. announced that its Board of Directors voted to authorize the spin-off
of 100% of the shares of PMI to Altria Group, Inc. s shareholders. Altria Group, Inc. also announced the composition of the Board of Directors for each company.            Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors after the spin-off will include four continuing members from the current Board of
Directors: Elizabeth E. Bailey, Robert E.R. Huntley, Thomas W. Jones, and George Mu oz. They will be joined by four new directors: Thomas F. Farrell II, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Dominion Resources, Inc.; Gerald L.
Baliles, Director of the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia and former Governor of Virginia; Dinyar S. Devitre, who will step down as Chief Financial Officer of Altria Group, Inc. following the spin-off; and Michael E.
Szymanczyk, who will serve as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer.            PMI s Board of Directors following the spin-off will include five members who will step down from the current Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors: Harold Brown, Mathis Cabiallavetta, J. Dudley Fishburn, Lucio A. Noto and Stephen M.
Wolf. Sergio Marchionne, Chief Executive Officer of Fiat S.p.A., and Carlos Slim Hel  will join the PMI Board of Directors at the time of the PMI spin-off. Graham Mackay, Chief Executive Officer of SABMiller, has agreed to join the PMI Board
of Directors later in 2008. Louis C. Camilleri will serve as Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of PMI following his resignation from those posts at Altria Group, Inc.            John S. Reed has elected to retire from the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors.            After the spin-off, Andr  Calantzopoulos will become Chief Operating Officer of
PMI, and David Beran will become Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Financial Officer.             
  Item 11.    Executive Compensation.                 Refer to  Compensation Committee Matters  and  Compensation of Directors  sections of the proxy statement.         

Item 12.   
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.                   The number of shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting and the number of shares
remaining available for future issuance under ALG s equity compensation plans at December 31, 2007, were as follows:         

Number of Shares to be Issued upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Vesting of Restricted Stock     
      
   Weighted Average Exercise Price of Outstanding Options     
      
   Number of Shares Remaining Available for Future Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans      
 
    Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders   
      
  33,184,428  
      
  $  
  32.71  
      
  44,306,756   

Refer to  Ownership of
Equity Securities  section of the proxy statement.             
  Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.                 Refer to  Related Person Transactions and Code of Conduct  and  Independence of Nominees  sections of the proxy statement.             
  Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services.                 Refer to  Audit Committee Matters  section of the proxy statement.         
   -50-   

Table of Contents  

PART IV          

Item 15.   
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   .               (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules         
          Schedules other than those
listed above have been omitted either because such schedules are not required or are not applicable.            (b) The following exhibits are filed as part of this Report:         

2.1  

Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. dated as of January 31, 2007.(19)   

3.1  

Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of ALG and Restated Articles of Incorporation of ALG.(22)   

3.2  

By-Laws, as amended, of ALG.(23)   

4.1  

Indenture dated as of August 1, 1990, between ALG and JPMorgan Chase Bank, Trustee.(1)   

4.2  

First Supplemental Indenture dated as of February 1, 1991, to Indenture dated as of August 1, 1990, between ALG and JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as Chemical Bank), Trustee.(2)   

4.3  

Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of January 21, 1992, to Indenture dated as of August 1, 1990, between ALG and JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly known as Chemical Bank), Trustee.(3)   

4.4  

Indenture dated as of December 2, 1996, between ALG and JPMorgan Chase Bank, Trustee.(4)   

4.5  

5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of April 15, 2005 among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. as Administrative
Agents, Credit Suisse First Boston, Cayman Islands Branch and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as Syndication Agents and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and UBS Securities LLC as Arrangers and Documentation
Agents.(29)   
       
   -51-   

Table of Contents  

4.6  

The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed 10 percent of
the total assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Commission upon request.   

10.1  

Financial Counseling Program.(5)   

10.2  

Benefit Equalization Plan, as amended.(6)   

10.3  

Form of Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreement.(7)   

10.4  

Form of Supplemental Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreement.(32)   

10.5  

Automobile Policy.(5)   

10.6  

Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan of ALG, as amended.(5)   

10.7  

1992 Incentive Compensation and Stock Option Plan.(5)   

10.8  

Unit Plan for Incumbent Non-Employee Directors, effective January 1, 1996.(7)   

10.9  

Form of Executive Master Trust between ALG, JPMorgan Chase Bank and Handy Associates.(8)   

10.10  

1997 Performance Incentive Plan.(10)   

10.11  

Long-Term Disability Benefit Equalization Plan, as amended.(5)   

10.12  

Survivor Income Benefit Equalization Plan, as amended.(5)   

10.13  

2000 Performance Incentive Plan.(17)   

10.14  

2000 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended.(22)   

10.15  

2005 Performance Incentive Plan.(27)   

10.16  

2005 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.(27)   

10.17  

Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release dated October 17, 1997, related to settlement of Mississippi health care cost recovery action.(5)   

10.18  

Settlement Agreement dated August 25, 1997, related to settlement of Florida health care cost recovery action.(11)   

10.19  

Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release dated January 16, 1998, related to settlement of Texas health care cost recovery action.(12)   

10.20  

Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of Judgment, dated May 8, 1998, regarding the claims of the State of Minnesota.(13)   

10.21  

Settlement Agreement and Release, dated May 8, 1998, regarding the claims of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota.(13)   

10.22  

Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Agreed Order, dated July 2, 1998, regarding the settlement of the Mississippi health care cost recovery
action.(14)   

10.23  

Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Consent Decree, dated July 24, 1998, regarding the settlement of the Texas health care cost recovery action.(14)   

10.24  

Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Consent Decree, dated September 11, 1998, regarding the settlement of the Florida health care cost recovery
action.(15)   

10.25  

Master Settlement Agreement relating to state health care cost recovery and other claims.(16)   

10.26  

Stipulation and Agreed Order Regarding Stay of Execution Pending Review and Related Matters.(18)   
       
   -52-   

Table of Contents  

10.27  

Agreement among ALG, PM USA and Michael E. Szymanczyk.(20)   

10.28  

Stock Purchase Agreement, dated October 31, 2007, by and among Altria Group, Inc., Bradford Holdings Inc. and John Middleton, Inc.(33)   

10.29  

Anti-Contraband and Anti-Counterfeit Agreement and General Release dated July 9, 2004 and Appendixes.(25)   

10.30  

Credit Agreement relating to a US$3,000,000,000 5-Year Revolving Credit Facility (including a US$900,000,000 swingline option) and a US$1,000,000,000 3-Year Revolving Credit Facility (including a
US$300,000,000 swingline option) and a EUR 1,500,000,000 364-Day Term Loan Facility dated as of December 4, 2007 among Philip Morris International Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and J.P. Morgan Europe Limited as Facility Agent and
Swingline Agent and J.P. Morgan PLC, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse, Cayman Islands Branch, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. and Lehman Brothers Inc. as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners.(26)

10.31  

Agreement with Louis C. Camilleri.   

10.32  

364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of March 29, 2007 among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agents,
Credit Suisse Securities (USA) LLC and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. as Syndication Agents and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., BNP Paribas, HSBC Bank USA, National Association and UBS Loan Finance LLC as Arrangers and Documentation Agents.(24)   

10.33  

Credit Agreement relating to a EUR 2,000,000,000 5-Year Revolving Credit Facility (including a EUR 1,000,000,000 swingline option) and a EUR 2,500,000,000 3-Year Term Loan Facility dated as of
12 May 2005 among Philip Morris International Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and Citibank International plc as Facility Agent and Swingline Agent, Citigroup Global Markets Limited, Credit Suisse First Boston, Cayman Islands Branch,
Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan plc as Mandated Lead Arrangers and Bookrunners and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., HSBC Bank plc and Soci t  Gen ral  as Mandated Lead Arrangers.(28)   

10.34  

Form of Deferred Stock Agreement.(32)   

10.35  

Employee Matters Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. dated as of March 30, 2007.(30)   

10.36  

Form of Indemnity Agreement.(31)   

10.37  

Kraft Foods Inc. Supplemental Benefits Plan I (including First Amendment adding Supplement A).(35)   

10.38  

Description of Participation by Dinyar S. Devitre in the International Management Benefit Program Retirement Plan.(35)   

10.39  

Designation of Participant Under the Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan (Dinyar S. Devitre), dated May 18, 2004.(35)   

10.40  

Tax Sharing Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. dated as of March 30, 2007.(30)   

10.41  

Transition Services Agreement by and between Altria Corporate Services, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. dated as of March 30, 2007.(30)   

10.42  

Employment Agreement with Andr  Calantzopoulos.   

10.43  

Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland (IC).   

10.44  

Summary of Supplemental Pension Plan of Philip Morris in Switzerland.   
       
   -53-   

Table of Contents  

-54-   

Table of Contents  

(25)  
  Incorporated by reference to ALG s Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 9, 2004 (portions of which have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission) (File No. 1-08940).           

-55-   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES              Pursuant to the requirements
of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.           

A LTRIA  G ROUP , I NC .    

By:  
     
    /s/    L OUIS  C. C AMILLERI              

(Louis C. Camilleri      Chairman of the Board and      Chief Executive Officer)    
 
         Date: February 28, 2008   
         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:          

Signature     
      
     Title     
     
     Date      

/s/    L OUIS  C. C AMILLERI               (Louis C. Camilleri)   
      
    Director, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer   
     
  February 28, 2008   

/s/    D INYAR  S. D EVITRE               (Dinyar S. Devitre)   
      
    Senior Vice President and     Chief Financial Officer   
     
  February 28, 2008   

/s/    J OSEPH  A. T IESI               (Joseph A. Tiesi)   
      
    Vice President and Controller   
     
  February 28, 2008   

* ELIZABETH E. BAILEY,      HAROLD BROWN,      MATHIS CABIALLAVETTA,      J. DUDLEY FISHBURN,
      ROBERT E. R. HUNTLEY,      THOMAS
W. JONES,      GEORGE MU OZ,      LUCIO A. NOTO,      JOHN S. REED and      STEPHEN M. WOLF   
      
  Directors  

*By:   
     
    /s/    L OUIS  C. C AMILLERI               (Louis C. Camilleri     Attorney-in-fact)   

February 28, 2008   
       
   -56-   

Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM        ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE             To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      ALTRIA GROUP, INC.:            Our audits of the consolidated financial statements and of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting referred to in our report dated January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21, which are as of
February 4, 2008, appearing in the 2007 Annual Report to Shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a) of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related
consolidated financial statements.            /s/
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP            New York, New York      January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21, which are as of February 4, 2008                                                                                    S-1   

Table of Contents  

ALTRIA GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES              VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        For the Years Ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005        (in millions)          
     Notes:         

(a)  
  Primarily related to currency translation and acquisitions.           

(b)  
  Represents charges for which allowances were created.           
   S-2   

<EX-10.31>
 2
 dex1031.htm
 AGREEMENT WITH LOUIS C. CAMILLERI.

Agreement with Louis C. Camilleri. 

Exhibit 10.31        AGREEMENT        BY AND BETWEEN        MR. LOUIS CAMILLERI  (the  Employee )         AND        PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC.  (the  Company )            The Employee and the Company hereby agree to the following:       

1.   
    With immediate effect, but subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Agreement, the Company will take the
necessary steps to provide that the Swiss pension plan (Caisses de Pensions des Fabriques de Tabac R unies SA, and hereafter, the  Swiss FTR Plan ) entitlements of the Employee attributable to the period from February 1   st   , 1980 to January 31   st   , 1995 (hereafter  credited
service ) will be assumed by the Company s U.S. pension plans.          

2.  
  The cost thereof, if any, will be borne entirely by the Company. Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4, the Employee certifies that he irrevocably gives up any and all claims
against the Swiss FTR Plan with respect to benefits attributable to the period of credited service and that he shall have no remaining or future rights, whatsoever.         

3.  
  The transfer value of the Swiss plan entitlements of CHF 1,062,121 on July 1, 2001 will remain within the Swiss FTR Plan. This amount shall be considered as an employer contribution
reserve no earlier than one year from the date of this Agreement.         

4.  
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Agreement, the Swiss FTR Plan will pay the pension plan entitlements of the Employee attributable to his credited service if such
entitlement is not paid by the Company s U.S. pension plans. The Company may release the Swiss FTR Plan from this obligation no earlier than one year from the date of this Agreement.         

5.  
  A copy of this duly signed Agreement will be provided to the trustees of this Swiss plan.             

Place and date,  
      
  Place and date,   

New York-June 1, 2001                              
      
  New York, June 7, 2001   

Mr. Louis Camilleri  
      
  Mr. Timothy A. Sompolski   

/s/ Louis Camilleri   
      
    /s/ Timothy A. Sompolski    

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.42>
 3
 dex1042.htm
 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WITH ANDRE CALANTZOPOULOS

Employment Agreement with Andre Calantzopoulos 

Exhibit 10.42       [LETTERHEAD OF PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL]        PRIVATE   CONFIDENTIAL        Andr  Calantzopoulos      Lausanne, April 18   th   , 2007        Merit Increase        Dear Andr ,      Further to your annual performance assessment and discussion with your supervisor, we are pleased to confirm your salary
increase effective April 1, 2007. Please find the details as follows:       
    We take this opportunity of wishing you continued success and satisfaction.        

With best regards,   

Director Project HR One   

[LETTERHEAD OF PHILIP MORRIS EASTERN EUROPE]       

REGISTERED     

Personal   Confidential     

Mr. Andr   CALANTZOPOULOS    

PM   POLAND, Warsaw     

Lausanne, January 15, 1999   
    Dear Andr ,      Following your appointment as President Eastern Europe Region, reporting to Mr. Paul Hendrys, President   CEO for Philip Morris International Inc., we are pleased to confirm the terms and conditions related to your transfer
from PM Warsaw to the Eastern Europe Headquarters in Lausanne.      It is agreed and understood that this letter of transfer will for all purposes be regarded
as a continuation of your employment within the Philip Morris Group of Companies.       Official Date of Transfer       February 1, 1999.       Annual Base Salary       Sfr. 550 030. , to be paid in 13 installments. It will be next reviewed in April 2000.       Pension Plans       You will remain in the FTR/PME Pension Scheme.      The scheme comprises two funds:       

1.  
  The basic plan (CPB) covers the legal benefits accruing out of the LPP (Swiss Federal Law on the Occupational Old Age, Survivors  and Disability Benefit Plan).

2.  
  The complementary plan CPC provides additional benefits which bring the level of total benefits (CPB   CPC combined) to the objective of the company s pension scheme
as outlined in the regulations booklet supplied to each employee.        The employee s combined contribution to both plans amounts to 6% of
the salary insured under the CPC which is the equivalent of the above-mentioned annual base salary less a co-ordination amount.       Swiss Social Security
Schemes       Contributions to the various state insurance schemes will be deducted from your salary each month as follows:       

Accident Insurance       Within the scope of the Federal Law on Accident Insurance (LAA) and of the additional cover taken out by the company the following benefits are provided:       

a)  
  Medical care        Full reimbursement of medical, hospital and
pharmaceutical costs incurred from the day of the accident.       

b)  
  Salary continuation        100 % of salary for 2 years from
the day of the accident occurrence.       

c)  
  Permanent disability benefits.         

d)  
  Survivors  benefits.         Sickness Insurance        

a)  
   Out-patient and in-patient care         You will switch
back from IHI to Intras, you will benefit of the same previous coverage.      For all employees and their eligible dependents covered under this
group scheme, the company will take in charge part of the monthly contributions in accordance with the relevant documentation. Family members are also covered for accidents.      No Company contributions will be paid if you choose to arrange an individual cover outside the group scheme.       

b)  
   Salary continuation         100 % of salary for 2
years from the first day the employee is unable to work. This cover is provided free of charge.       Life Insurance       Within the scope of the insurance carrier regulations and in co-ordination with the Pension Fund, employees are provided, free of charge, with an insurance cover in case
of death and permanent disability.       Moving Expenses       Philip Morris will pay a remover to pack, transport, and unpack your existing household goods from Warsaw to Lausanne. Additionally, you will be entitled to a relocation allowance amounting to the equivalent of one twelfth of your annual
base salary, i.e. Sfr. 45 836. .       Housing       In
order to enable you to find suitable living quarters, you will be provided on your arrival in Lausanne with either hotel accommodation or a furnished flat free of charge for a maximum period of 3 months. Please note that any supplementary days over
and above the 3-month limit will be at your expense.               
   -2-   

Taxation       Since
September 1, 1998, Philip Morris will reimburse you the difference of tax deductions, which will occur due to the different taxation periods created through your relocation up to the full amount based upon submission of Pricewaterhouse Coopers
calculations and offset against any income tax paid for the month of January 1999 in Poland.       Company car       You will be able to use a company pool car, providing availability, otherwise, we will pay for rental cost up to the time you will receive your company car.   
   Vacation       Your vacation entitlement is 25 working days per
calendar year.      Vacation should be taken in the calendar year in which entitlement falls i.e. before December 31 of the current year. Up to 15
vacation days may be carried over to the following year provided they are taken before April 30. Any balance remaining after that date is canceled without compensation.       Long Service Bonus       For each completed year of service, the company pays a cumulative bonus of Sfr. 150.  on the
anniversary date of employment, up to a maximum of Sfr. 3 000.  for 20 years of service.       Termination of Employment       Termination of employment, whether by you or by Philip Morris will be subject to the normal requirements of Swiss law.      Please sign and return, for agreement, one copy of this letter of employment.      We look forward to welcoming you in PM Lausanne and wish you success and satisfaction in your new job.       

Yours sincerely,  

PHILIP MORRIS EUROPE S.A.   

/s/ Ulrike Kubala  

Ulrike Kubala  

Vice President Human Resources  

Eastern Europe Region  

Read and approved:  
      
    /s/ Andr  Calantzopoulos   

Date:  
      
    29/1/99    

(Andr  Calantzopoulos)   

Ref. : kgj               
   -3-   

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.43>
 4
 dex1043.htm
 PENSION FUND OF PHILIP MORRIS IN SWITZERLAND (IC)

Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland (IC) 

Exhibit 10.43        Pension Fund of        Philip Morris in Switzerland        Regulations        IC Pension Plan  
         January 2006   

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

Regulations - IC Pension Plan   
     
    page I    
               Table of contents        

Introduction    
     
       1     

1.    
      
     Membership in the IC Plan    
     
       1     

Article 1 - General Principle   
     
      1    

Art. 2 - Start of Membership   
     
      1    

Art. 3 - Termination of Membership   
     
      1    

2.    
      
     Definitions    
     
       2     

Art. 4 - Normal retirement   
     
      2    

Art. 5 - Contributory salary   
     
      2    

Art. 6 - Retirement savings capital   
     
      2    

Art. 7 - Retirement credits   
     
      3    

Art. 8 - Voluntary contributions   
     
      3    

Art. 9 - Loss of benefits   
     
      4    

Art. 10 - Interest   
     
      4    

3.    
      
     IC Pension Plan benefits    
     
       4     

General Principles   
     
      4    

Art. 11 - Insured benefits   
     
      4    

Art. 12 - Payment   
     
      5    

Art. 13 - Rights in Case of Third Party Liability   
     
      5    

Art. 14 - Contributory negligence   
     
      5    

Art. 15 - Assignment, Pledge and Compensation   
     
      5    

Art. 16 - Statute of limitations   
     
      6    

Retirement Pension or Lump-sum Retirement Capital   
     
      6    

Art. 17 - Entitlement   
     
      6    

Art. 18 - Amount   
     
      6    

Art. 19 - Deferral   
     
      7    

Lump-sum disability benefit   
     
      7    

Art. 20 - Recognition of Disability   
     
      7    

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

Regulations - IC Pension Plan   
     
    page II    

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

Regulations - IC Pension Plan   
     
    page III    

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 1   
               Introduction       The objective of the
Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland (hereafter  the Pension Fund ) is to protect the employees of the Philip Morris Group in Switzerland and companies which, in accordance with the Statutes, can be affiliated with the Fund
(hereafter:  the Employer  or, collectively,  the Employers ) against the economic consequences of retirement, disability and death.      In compliance with Article 5 of the Statutes governing the Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland, the Pension Board issues the regulations for this Plan supplementing the pension measures covered by the Main
Plan (hereafter:  the IC Pension Plan ).      The IC Pension Plan is a  defined contributions plan  within the meaning of
Article 15 of the Federal Law on Vesting in Pension Plans of 17 December 1993 (hereafter:  LFLP/FZG ).      The benefits
contemplated in these Regulations supplement the benefits under the Plan Rules of the Pension Plan of Philip Morris in Switzerland (hereafter,  the Main Plan ), which is a  defined benefits plan  within the meaning of Article 16
LFLP/FZG. The benefits of the Supplemental Plan are paid out together with those of the Main Plan.      In these Regulations, words importing
the masculine gender refer equally to men and women.      From 1 January 2007, persons bound by a registered civil partnership, within the
meaning of the Federal Law on Registered Civil Partnerships Between Persons of the Same Sex, are treated in the same way as married persons (spouses) as defined in these Regulations. The registration of a civil partnership at a registry office is
treated in the same way as a marriage and the dissolution of a civil partnership by a court is treated in the same way as a divorce.       

1.    
     Membership in the IC Plan           Article 1 - General Principle        

1.   
    Membership in the IC Plan is compulsory for all grade I employees or higher (banded) who are members of the Pension Fund s Main Plan.
         Art. 2 - Start of Membership        

1.   
    Membership in the IC Plan commences on the first day of the month in which a bonus is paid. As a result, the employee acquires the status of insured member.
         Art. 3 - Termination of Membership        

1.   
    Membership in the IC Pension Plan ceases at the date of termination of employment      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 2   

2.   
    Termination of membership in the IC Plan entails the loss member status, subject, however, to Article 30 (end of insurance) and Article 31 (maintenance of
insurance cover as external member) and to the Pension Fund s obligation to provide the individual concerned with all necessary information.          

2.    
     Definitions           Art. 4 -
Normal retirement        

1.   
    Normal retirement begins on the first day of the month following a member s 65th birthday, irrespective of gender.          Art. 5 - Contributory salary        

1.   
    The contributory salary of members in salary bands A to E is equal to the contributory salary of the Main Plan. This salary is hereafter referred to as
 contributory salary I .         The contributory salary I is limited to ten times the maximum amount
defined in Article 8(1) LPP/BVG.       

2.   
    The contributory salary of members in salary bands G to I is equal to the bonus (IC). This salary is hereafter referred to as  contributory salary II .
        The contributory salary II is limited to ten times the upper amount defined in Article 8(1) LPP less the
contributory salary insured under the Main Plan.       

3.   
    The contributory salary of members in salary band F is equal to the contributory salary I when the contributory salary insured in the Main Plan plus the bonus
(IC) exceeds ten times the upper amount defined in Article 8(1) LPP. In all other cases, the contributory salary is equal to the contributory salary II.          

4.   
    The contributory salary never includes any compensation earned from employment with a third party.          Art. 6 - Retirement savings capital        

1.   
    A retirement savings capital is created for each member, consisting of:          

-   
    retirement credits in accordance with Article 7 below;          

-   
    the member s voluntary contributions;          

-   
    possible repayments of amounts lost in implementation of Article 9 (loss of benefits); and          

-   
    interest accrued on the above amounts.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 3   
               Art. 7 - Retirement credits        

1.   
    The retirement credits calculated on a yearly basis and expressed as a percentage of the contributory salary are equal to:          

a.   
    contributory salary I:          

-   
    salary bands A to D: 3 %          

b.   
    contributory salary II: 12 %          Art. 8 - Voluntary contributions        

1.   
    An active member who has accrued the maximum duration specified in Article 10(1) of the Main Plan regulations may purchase pension benefits at any time by means
of a voluntary contribution.          

2.   
    Vested termination benefits that are not entirely absorbed by the Main Plan in accordance with Article 10(5) of its regulations may be applied to the purchase of
benefits in the IC Pension Plan.          

3.   
    Voluntary contributions are limited to the difference between:          

a.   
    contributory salary I:          

-   
    3 % of the contributory salary I, multiplied by the difference in years between the year of the member s 30th birthday and the current calendar year,
and          

-   
    the retirement savings capital accrued at the date of the voluntary contribution:          

b.   
    contributory salary II:          

-   
    12 % of the contributory salary, multiplied by the difference in years between the year of the member s 30th birthday and the current calendar year,
and          

-   
    the retirement savings capital accrued at the date of the voluntary contribution.         The reference salary for calculating the maximum voluntary contribution is equal to the average of the last three contributory salaries
II earned since the start of membership in the IC Pension Plan       

5.   
    Members can only make a voluntary contribution if they have fully repaid any previous withdrawals obtained for the financing of home ownership (subject to
Article 40(1)(a).          

6.   
    The maximum amount that may be allocated to the voluntary purchase is reduced by any vested termination benefit that has not been transferred to the Fund plus
that portion of the member s 3a pillar assets which exceeds the sum of the maximum annual tax deductible contributions from age 24, plus interest, in accordance with Article 7(1)(a) OPP 3.          

7.   
    In the case of members arriving from abroad who have never belonged to a pension plan in Switzerland, the maximum annual voluntary contribution is limited,
during the first 5 years of membership, to 20 % of the contributory salary.  

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 4   

8.   
    Benefits deriving from a member s voluntary contributions may not be paid out in the form of capital for at least three years.      

9.   
    If one of the Employers finances all or part of a purchase of benefits in the context of a member s international transfer within the Altria Group, an
agreement will be concluded between the Fund, the Employer and the member.          Art. 9 - Loss of benefits    

1.   
    If Article 24 (transfer of vested termination benefits in case of divorce) is applied following a divorce, the member s retirement savings capital will be
reduced and his voluntary and regulatory contributions accounts will be adjusted accordingly.          

2.   
    If a member makes a withdrawal for the financing of home ownership and an amount is transferred from the IC Pension Plan, the member s retirement savings
capital will also be reduced and his voluntary and regulatory contributions accounts will be adjusted accordingly.          Art. 10 - Interest        

1.   
    The interest rate payable on the retirement savings capital is set by the Pension Board.          

2.   
    Interest is credited at the end of each calendar year or on the date the member leaves the IC Pension Plan if an insured event occurs during the year.

3.   
    Retirement credits bear interest from the 1st day of the month following their payment; voluntary contributions bear interest from the date they are paid in.

4.   
    The default interest rate is the minimum interest rate set in the LPP plus one percentage point.          

3.    
     IC Pension Plan benefits           

1.    
     General principles           Art. 11 - Insured benefits        

1.   
    Subject to the conditions set out below, the IC Pension Plan insures benefits in the form of:          

a)   
    retirement pension or lump-sum retirement capital;          

b)   
    lump-sum disability benefit;          

c)   
    lump-sum death benefit          

d)   
    benefits in case of divorce;          

e)   
    vested termination benefit;      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 5   

f)   
    encouragement of home ownership.          Art. 12 - Payment        

1.   
    IC Pension Plan benefits are payable as follows:          

a)   
    lump-sum capital: within 30 days after falling due, but not before the legal beneficiaries are identified with certainty;          

b)   
    termination benefits: on the date the member leaves the Pension Fund.          

2.   
    IC Pension Plan benefits are payable at the Pension Fund s registered office. They are payable in Switzerland in Swiss francs, to a bank or postal account
at the address provided by the beneficiary. The Fund reserves the right to refuse a payment address if electronic payment is not possible. The provisions of international treaties remain applicable          

3.   
    The Fund may require written proof of benefit entitlement; if the beneficiary fails to produce such proof, the Fund may suspend benefit payments.

4.   
    The Pension Fund can request repayment of any benefits wrongly paid or received. Repayment may be waived where the beneficiary acted in good faith and repayment
would cause great hardship.          Art. 13 - Rights in Case of Third Party Liability        

1.   
    If the Fund is not subrogated to the rights of the member, his survivors and other beneficiaries defined in Art. 46 pursuant to the LPP, it may require a
disabled member or the survivors of a deceased member to assign their rights against any third party liable for the death or disability, up to the amount of the benefits payable by the Fund.          

2.   
    The Fund may suspend benefits until it receives such assignment.          Art. 14 - Contributory negligence        

1.   
    If the AVS/AI//AHV/IV reduces, withdraws, or denies benefits on the grounds that the death or disability of the member was caused through gross negligence on the
part of the beneficiary, or if the member refuses rehabilitation measures imposed by the AI/IV, the Pension Board may reduce Fund benefits in an amount not exceeding the measure imposed by the AVS/AI//AHV/IV.          Art. 15 - Assignment, Pledge and Compensation        

1.   
    Benefit entitlements may not be assigned or pledged before they fall due. However, Article 42 (pledge) remains applicable.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 6   

2.   
    Entitlement to Fund benefits may only be set off against claims assigned to the Fund by the Employer if such claims relate to contributions that are not deducted
from the salary.          

3.   
    Any legal instrument which contravenes paragraphs 1 and 2 is null and void.          Art. 16 - Statute of limitations        

1.   
    Actions for recovery of receivables are time-barred after 5 years in the case of contributions or periodical benefits, and after 10 years in all other cases.

2.   
    Article 41 LPP/BVG and Articles 129 to 142 of the Swiss Code of Obligations are applicable in all other respects.          Retirement Pension or Lump-sum Retirement Capital        Art. 17 - Entitlement        

1.   
    Entitlement to retirement benefits begins on the normal retirement date. Article 19 (deferred retirement) remains applicable.          

2.   
    If a member leaves the Main Plan after the last day of the month preceding his 58th birthday for any reason other than death or disability, he is entitled to the
retirement benefits of the IC Pension Plan from that date. Article 31 (maintenance of insurance) and Article 60 (early retirement age) remain applicable.          

3.   
    A member who has applied to the Main Plan for a partial or full retirement pension may use all or part of his IC Pension Plan retirement savings capital to
purchase retirement pension benefits from the Main Plan. Pension benefits thus purchased are governed by the regulations of the Main Plan.          

4.   
    The member must inform the Pension Fund s management of his choice 3 months before retirement date, otherwise he shall be deemed to have opted for payment
of a lump-sum retirement capital. Article 8(8) remains applicable.          

5.   
    If the member is married, payment of a lump-sum capital is subject to the written consent of his spouse. If such agreement cannot be obtained or if it is
refused, the member may appeal to the courts.          Art. 18 - Amount        

1.   
    The lump-sum retirement capital is equal to the retirement savings capital accrued at the retirement date.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 7   

2.   
    The annual retirement pension purchased in the Main Plan results from the conversion of all or part of the accrued retirement savings capital using the
conversion factor for the member s age at retirement indicated in Annexe 1 of the Main Plan regulations, plus a percentage of the reserve for changes in mortality tables indicated in the balance sheet of the Main Plan on 1 January of the
year of retirement.          Art. 19 - Deferral        

1.   
    A member who applies to maintain his insurance cover under the Main Plan in accordance with Article 23 of that Plan s regulations will also maintain his
insurance coverage under the IC Pension Plan until the end of his membership in the Main Plan.          

2.   
    The member stops paying contributions; he remains entitled to the retirement benefits set out in Article 17 above.          

3.   
    During the deferral, interest will accrue on his retirement savings capital at the rate set by the Pension Board.          

4.   
    If a member s death occurs during the deferral period, the accrued retirement savings capital becomes due immediately and is payable in accordance with
Article 22 below.          Lump-sum disability benefit        Art. 20 - Recognition of Disability        

1.   
    A member who is recognised as disabled under the Main Plan regulations qualifies as disabled at the same date and to the same degree under the IC Pension Plan.
         Art. 21 - Entitlement and amount        

1.   
    The member is entitled to a lump-sum disability benefit when he is recognised as disabled under the Main Plan regulations.          

2.   
    The lump-sum disability benefit is equal to the accrued retirement savings capital at the date of recognition of disability by the Main Plan.

3.   
    Entitlement to the full Main Plan pension entails entitlement to full payment of the capital.         If the member is entitled to a partial rent under the Main Plan regulations, the lump-sum disability benefit is paid in the same
proportion.   

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 8   
               Lump-sum death benefit        Art. 22 -
Entitlement and amount        

1.   
    If an active member dies, a lump-sum death benefit is payable to the beneficiaries in accordance with Article 23 below.          

2.   
    The lump-sum death benefit is equal to:          

a)   
    the retirement savings capital accrued at the date of the member s death, if the beneficiaries are beneficiaries within the meaning of Article 23(1) of
these Regulations, or of Article 46(1) of the Main Plan regulations.          

b)   
    50 % of the retirement savings capital, but no less than the aggregate of the member s contributions, without interest, if the beneficiaries are
 other legal heirs  within the meaning of the LPP.          Art. 23 - Beneficiaries        

1.   
    The lump-sum death benefit is payable:          

-   
    first: to the surviving spouse or, from 1 January 2007, to the surviving partner, in accordance with Article 40
   bis    of the Main Plan regulations;          

-   
    failing them: to the other beneficiaries in accordance with Article 46 of the Main Plan regulations.          

2.   
    If there are no beneficiaries in accordance with paragraph 1 above, the lump-sum death benefit vests in the IC Pension Plan.          Benefits in Case of Divorce        Art.
24 - Transfer of Termination Benefit in Case of Divorce        

1.   
    If an active member divorces, the termination benefits that accrued to the member and his ex-spouse during their marriage are divided between them in accordance
with Sections 122, 123, 141 and 142 of the Swiss Civil Code. The Court automatically notifies the Fund of the amount to be transferred and all information necessary for the transfer.          

2.   
    If the court notifies the Fund in accordance with paragraph 1, the retirement savings capital in the IC Pension Plan at the time of the divorce is first reduced
by the amount attributed by the court to the ex-spouse. The member may partially or fully repay the amount thus transferred; the repayment will be applied to rebuilding his retirement savings capital.          

3.   
    The sum of voluntary contributions made by the member up to the divorce will be reduced proportionately to the reduction in retirement savings capital.

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 9   
               Vested Termination Benefit        Art.
25 - Termination of employment        

1.   
    A member who leaves the Main Plan for any reason other than death or disability before he is entitled to draw retirement benefits is entitled to vested
termination benefits in the amount determined in accordance with Article 26 (amount of vested termination benefits) and Article 27 (minimum amount of vested termination benefits) below.          

2.   
    Vested termination benefits are payable when a member leaves the IC Pension Plan. After that date, they earn interest at the minimum LPP/BVG rate. If the Fund
does not transfer the benefits due within 30 days of receipt of all requisite information, default interest shall accrue as of that time.          Art. 26 - Amount of the Vested Termination Benefit        

1.   
    Subject to Article 27 below, the vested termination benefits are equal to the member s retirement savings capital at the date he leaves, after taking into
account Article 24 (transfer of vested termination benefits in case of divorce) and Article 38 (withdrawals - consequences).          

2.   
    If, on the last day of employment, the member was employed with the Altria Group for less than 5 years starting from the date of the member s 18th birthday,
the vested termination benefit will be reduced by any amounts financed by the Employer pursuant to Articles 8(9). That reduction is decreased by one tenth of the amount financed by the Employer for every year of employment with the Altria Group
starting from the date of the member s 18th birthday. The reduction for a fraction of a year is calculated pro rata temporis. The amount not attributed to the member is treated as a contribution reserve of the Employer. If, on the last day of
employment, the member has been employed with the Altria Group for 5 years or more since the date of his 18th birthday, no reduction shall be made.          Art. 27 - Minimum Amount of Vested Termination Benefit        

1.   
    When a member leaves the Pension Fund, he is entitled at least to any voluntary contributions made pursuant to Articles 8 and 59, and to any repayments of
amounts lost pursuant to Article 9, with interest at the rate set in the LPP; in addition, the member is entitled to any personal contributions to the IC Pension Plan paid in after 1 January following his 24th birthday, without interest but
increased by 4 % per year over age 20, up to a maximum of 100 %, after Articles 24 (transfer of termination benefits in case of divorce) and 38 (withdrawals - consequences) have been taken into account.          

2.   
    The vested termination benefits are reduced by any amount financed by the Employer in accordance with Article 8(9). That deduction is reduced by one tenth of the
amount financed by the Employer for every year of contribution to the IC Pension Plan. The reduction for a fraction of a year is calculated pro rata temporis. The amount not attributed to the member is treated as a contribution reserve of the
Employer.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 10   
               Art. 28 - Transfer of the Vested Termination Benefit        

1.   
    When a member leaves the Pension Fund, the Fund informs him of the amount of his vested termination benefits, inviting him to provide the necessary instructions
for their transfer within 30 days in accordance with paragraphs 2 and 3 below.          

2.   
    If the member starts working for a new employer, the Fund shall transfer the vested termination benefits together with the vested termination benefits of the
Main Plan to the new employer s pension plan in accordance with the member s instructions.          

3.   
    If the member does not go to work for a new employer, he may choose between:          

a)   
    purchasing a vested benefits policy with an insurance company subject to ordinary insurance regulation, or with a group of such insurance companies, or with an
insurance company under public law within the meaning of Art. 67(1) LPP/BVG; or          

b)   
    opening a vested benefits account with a pension fund whose assets are invested by, or with, a bank governed by the Federal Law on Banks and Savings
Institutions.          

4.   
    If the member fails to provide the requisite information within the specified time, the IC Pension Plan shall transfer the vested termination benefit, including
interest, to a vested benefits account or to the Substitute Pension Plan no later than two years after termination of employment.          
     Art. 29 - Cash Payment        

1.   
    Subject to Article 8(8), a member may apply to receive his vested termination benefit in cash:          

a)   
    if he leaves Switzerland permanently for a country other than the Principality of Liechtenstein;          

b)   
    if he becomes self-employed and is no longer subject to the LPP/BVG;          

c)   
    if the vested termination benefit is less than the member s annual contribution at the time of termination of employment.          

2.   
    If the member is married, payment in cash may only be made with the written consent of the spouse. If such consent cannot be obtained, or is unduly withheld, the
member may appeal to the courts.          

3.   
    The Pension Board may require the member to submit any proof it deems necessary and may delay payment until such proof is submitted.
         Art. 30 - End of insurance        

1.   
    IC Pension Plan insurance coverage ends on the day the member leaves the Pension Fund, namely on the last day of the month when employment ends.

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 11   

2.   
    If, in the month following the end of employment, the member does not enter into an employment contract with a new employer, and if he has an earning incapacity
which subsequently causes him to be qualified as disabled under the Main Plan, the benefits paid by the IC Pension Plan are those that were insured on the day the member left the IC Pension Plan.          

3.   
    If the IC Pension Plan intervenes in accordance with paragraph 2 of this Article, and if the vested termination benefit was already transferred, the Pension Fund
shall claim restitution. If restitution is not forthcoming, the IC Plan benefits shall be reduced accordingly.          

4.   
    Article 31 (maintenance of insurance coverage as an external member) remains applicable.          Maintenance of Insurance Coverage        Art. 31 - Maintenance of Insurance as an External Member        

1.   
    A member who applies to maintain his insurance cover as an external member under the Main Plan in accordance with Articles 57 and 58 of that Plan s
regulations also maintains his insurance coverage under the IC Pension Plan. The same applies to a member who applies to maintain his insurance cover as a contributing external member under the Main Plan in accordance with Article 59 of that
Plan s regulations.          

2.   
    The member stops paying contributions; the retirement savings capital accrued at the last day of employment will be increased by interest at the rate set by the
Pension Board.          

3.   
    Benefit entitlements remain subject to the provisions of these Regulations. However, the application of Articles 8 (the repurchase of insurance years) and 32
(accession of the property) to 45 is excluded.          

4.   
    A member who is downgraded below grade I maintains his insurance coverage under the IC Pension Plan as an external member from 1 January coinciding with or
following the downgrading. The member stops paying contributions; the accrued retirement savings capital will be increased by interest at the rate set by the Pension Board. Benefit entitlements remain subject to the provisions of these Regulations.
Notwithstanding, Article 8 is excluded from application from the date of downgrading.          Encouragement of Home Ownership
       Art. 32 - General Provisions        

1.   
    Any active member may use all or part of the retirement savings capital globally acquired in the Main Plan and in the IC Pension Plan to:

-   
    acquire or build a residential property;          

-   
    acquire co-ownership of a residential property;      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 12   

-   
    repay mortgages.          

2.   
    The member may only use his retirement savings capital, or any part thereof, for one residential property at a time.          

3.   
    The property may be:          

a)   
    an apartment;      

b)   
    a single-family home.          

4.   
     Residential property  is understood to mean:          

a)   
    ownership;      

b)   
    co-ownership, in particular condominium ownership;      

c)   
    joint ownership by the member and his spouse;      

d)   
    an independent and long-standing right to build a residence on leasehold property.          

5.   
     Co-ownership of a residential property  is understood to mean:          

a)   
    the purchase of shares in a cooperative residential association;      

b)   
    the purchase of shares of a publicly-owned, residential rental property;      

c)   
    the granting of multiple-party loans to a non-profit residential organisation         subject, however, to the condition that the rules of the cooperative residential association or of a similar ownership organisation
selected by the member stipulate that on leaving the cooperative residential association or the publicly-owned residential property organisation or the non-profit residential organization, the amounts invested in shares or similar certificates of
such organisations may only be transferred only to a similar organisation in which the member personally uses a residence, or alternatively, to an occupational pension plan.      The share certificates or similar certificates must be deposited with the Pension Fund.       Art. 33 - Definition of a Residence for the Member s Own Use        

1.   
    The following provisions refer to the purchase of a residence  for the member s own use . A  residence for the member s own use  is
understood to mean a residence that the member uses at his place of domicile or at his usual place of residence.          

2.   
    If a member lives abroad, he must, before obtaining a withdrawal or making a pledge, submit the proof that he is using the amounts in question for his own
residential property.          Art. 34 - Forms of Encouragement        

1.   
    The encouragement of home ownership, within the meaning of these Regulations, may take two separate forms:          

a)   
    withdrawal of all or part of the vested termination benefit, within the limits, and according to the terms and with the consequences described in the Articles 36
to 41 below;      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 13   

b)   
    pledge of the vested termination benefit and/or of the entire entitlement to future benefits, within the limits, and according to the terms and with the
consequences defined in Articles 42 to 44 below.          

2.   
    The two forms of financing home ownership may be combined.          Art. 35 - Proof        

1.   
    A member wishing to avail himself of his right to one or other form of financing home ownership must show that all applicable conditions have been satisfied by
submitting the documents requested by the Pension Fund.          Art. 36 - Withdrawal - Entitlement        

1.   
    Each member may request a withdrawal up to the end of the month in which he reaches age 62, provided, however, that he is not already drawing benefits from the
IC Pension Plan.          

2.   
    The member may also apply for the withdrawal within the time limit set in paragraph 1 and request that it be processed after that date, but not later than the
date his retirement benefits begin. The time limits defined in Article 39 remain applicable.          

3.   
    If the member is married, a withdrawal may only be made with the written consent of the spouse. If such agreement cannot be obtained or if it is refused, the
member may appeal to the courts.          

4.   
    A withdrawal may be claimed only once every 5 years.          Art. 37 - Amount        

1.   
    The aggregate withdrawal amount may not be less than CHF 20,000, subject to paragraph 2, and may not exceed the amount defined below:

a)    
     if requested up to the last day of the month in which the member turns 50:          the total vested termination benefit calculated at the date of the withdrawal in accordance with Articles 26 and 27 of these Regulations,
and of Articles 52 and 53 of the Main Plan regulations.       

b)    
     if requested after the last day of the month in which member turns 50:          the greater of the following amounts:       

-   
    the vested termination benefit to which the member would have been entitled under the regulations of the pension plan of which he was a member on the last day of
the month of his 50th birthday, had he terminated employment at that date, plus any repayments of withdrawals made after that date, less any withdrawals or pledges made after that date;      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 14   

-   
    50 % of the difference between the lump-sum termination benefit calculated at the withdrawal date in accordance with Articles 26 and 27 of these Regulations
and Articles 52 and 53 of the Main Plan regulations and the vested termination benefit already used for financing home ownership at that date.          

2.   
    The limit of CHF 20,000 does not apply to the purchase of shares in cooperative residential associations or similar forms of co-ownership.

3.   
    Article 8(8) of these Regulations and Article 12(4) of the Main Plan regulations remain applicable.          

4.   
    The Fund reserves the right to charge an administration fee for handling withdrawal requests.          Art. 38 - Consequences        

1.   
    A withdrawal has the effect of reducing the retirement savings capital by an equal amount.          

2.   
    The voluntary contributions of the member will be reduced proportionately with the reduction in retirement savings capital.          

3.   
    To compensate the effects of the reduction in retirement savings capital on the IC Pension Plan death and disability benefits, the Pension Fund, acting as an
intermediary, shall conclude an insurance policy covering all or part of the reduction in death and disability benefits insured by the IC Pension Plan. The member assumes the total cost of such an insurance policy.          Art. 39 - Implementation        

1.   
    The Fund shall pay the full withdrawal amount no later than 6 months after the member submits his withdrawal request; however, Article 36(2) remains applicable.
In case of underfunding, this limit may be extended to 12 months. In case of significant underfunding, withdrawals for mortgage repayments may be deferred until further notice; the Fund shall inform members and the regulatory authority of the
duration of this measure.          

2.   
    After the documents requested by the Fund have been produced, the Fund shall transfer the agreed amount, with the member s consent and based on the
agreement concluded between the parties, directly to the creditor (seller, lender) or to the beneficiary according to Article 32(4) and (5).          

3.   
    If the Fund can justify liquidity problems, the Pension Board shall establish a priority schedule and inform the regulatory authority; the Fund will discharge
its obligations according to its cash flow position and the priority schedule.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 15   
               Art. 40 - Repayment        

1.   
    The member  may  repay the withdrawal no later than:          

a)   
    the end of the month during which he reaches age 62, provided, however, that he does not already draw an early retirement pension;      

b)   
    at the date on which he is recognized as disabled by the Main Plan or the IC Pension Plan, or at his death;          

c)   
    on cash payment of his vested termination benefit.          

3.   
    The Fund provides the member with confirmation of the repayment on an official form issued by the Federal Tax Office.          

4.   
    If none of the conditions in paragraph 1 is fulfilled, the member  must  repay the withdrawal to the Fund if:          

-   
    the residential property is sold;      

-   
    rights are granted on the property which are economically equivalent to a sale.          

5.   
    If the member dies and no benefits are payable by the IC Pension Plan upon his death, the heirs of the deceased are required to repay the amount of the
withdrawal paid out by the IC Pension Plan and outstanding at the member s death, subject to Article 41(1). The repayment vests in the IC Pension Plan.          

6.   
    The aggregate withdrawal obtained from the Fund and repaid in accordance with paragraphs 1 and 4 of this article shall be applied first to the purchase of
pension benefits in accordance with Article 10 of the Main Plan regulations and then to the rebuilding of retirement savings capital in accordance with Article 6 of these Regulations. The same applies to any amounts transferred in from another
pension plan. Article 4 1(2) below remains applicable.          Art. 41 - Sale of the Residential Property        

1.   
    If a residential property is sold the repayment obligation is limited to the withdrawal amounts received from the pension plans in which the member participated
and which have not yet been repaid, but to no more than the proceeds of the sale, namely the sale price less the mortgage loans and the legal charges for the seller s account. The obligations arising from loans contracted in the two years
preceding the sale of the residential property are not taken into consideration for the calculation of the proceeds of the sale, unless the member can prove that the loans were used to finance his residential property.      

2.   
    If, in the two years after the sale the member intends to reinvest the proceeds from the sale corresponding to the withdrawal in a new residential property, he
may transfer the amount to a vested benefits institution.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 16   

3.   
    The assignment of property rights which are economically equivalent to a sale is also considered as a sale. However, the transfer of a residential property to a
beneficiary within the meaning of pension legislation is not treated as a sale, although the beneficiary is subject to the same restrictions on sale as the member.          

4.   
    The restriction on the right of sale is filed with the Land Registry. A request may be made to remove the entry when it becomes redundant, namely:

a)   
    3 years before the normal retirement date;          

b)   
    after the occurrence of another insured event;          

c)   
    on the cash payout of the vested termination benefit;          

d)   
    if it is established that the amount invested in the residential property was repaid to the Fund or transferred to a vested termination benefits institution.
         Art. 42 - Pledge - Principle        

1.   
    Up to the end of the month in which the member reaches age 62 and provided he is not already drawing a pension from the IC Pension Plan, he may pledge:

a)    
     up to the last day of the month in which the member turns 50:          up to a maximum of the vested termination benefit to which he would be entitled at the time of making the pledge calculated in accordance with Articles 26 and 27 of these Regulations and of
Articles 52 and 53 of the Main Plan regulations;       

b)    
     after the last day of the month in which the member turns 50:          up to the greater of the two amounts defined in Article 37(1)(b);       

c)    
     regardless of age:          his entitlement to future benefits up to the amounts defined in paragraphs a) and b) above, taking into account his age.       

2.   
    Article 8(8) of these Regulations and Article 12(4) of the Main Plan regulations remain applicable.          

3.   
    Article 36 above concerning entitlement to a withdrawal applies mutatis mutandis to a pledge.          

4.   
    Notwithstanding Article 36(4), the amount pledged may be adjusted at any time until the maximum amount defined in paragraph 1 is reached.

5.   
    To be valid, the Fund must receive written notice of a pledge.          Art. 43 - Consequences of Enforcing a Lien        

1.   
    The Fund must inform the member about the consequences of the enforcement of a lien.          

2.   
    If the lien is enforced, fully or in part, Article 38 shall apply by analogy.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 17   
               Art. 44 - Consent of the Mortgagee        

1.   
    The mortgagee s written consent is required:          

a)   
    for the cash payment of a vested termination benefit;          

b)   
    if benefits are due by the IC Pension Plan;          

c)   
    if part of the vested termination benefit is transferred to the member s ex-spouse in the event of a divorce.          

2.   
    If the mortgagee refuses to give his consent, the IC Pension Plan shall deposit the amount in safekeeping.          

3.   
    If the member changes employer and joins a new pension plan, the Fund must inform the mortgagee. In particular, the information must specify the name of the
pension plan to which the vested termination benefit is transferred and the amount of the vested termination benefit.          Art. 45 - Tax Provisions on the Encouragement of Home Ownership        

1.   
    Withdrawals and proceeds from the satisfaction of a pledge on the pension assets are taxable as pension income.          

2.   
    In the case of repayment of the withdrawal or the proceeds from the satisfaction of the of a pledge, the taxpayer may apply for a refund of the taxes paid on the
withdrawal or on the proceeds from the satisfaction of the of a pledge. Such repayments are not deductible from taxable income.          

3.   
    To obtain a tax refund, the member must apply in writing to the tax office that collected the taxes and submit documents evidencing:

-   
    the repayment;          

-   
    the retirement savings capital invested in the residential property;          

-   
    the taxes paid to the Confederation, the canton and the municipality on a withdrawal or on the proceeds from the satisfaction of a pledge.

4.   
    The right to a tax refund lapses three years after the withdrawal or the proceeds from the satisfaction of a pledge is/are repaid to a pension plan.

5.   
    The Fund must notify the Federal Tax Office within 30 days of any withdrawal, proceeds from the satisfaction of a pledge, or repayment within the meaning of the
above provisions.          

6.   
    This Article applies to direct federal, cantonal and municipal taxes.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 18   

4.    
     IC Pension Plan Resources           Art. 46 - General Resources        

1.   
    The resources of the IC Plan consist of:          

a)   
    regulatory contributions of the members;          

b)   
    voluntary contributions within the meaning of Article 8 (voluntary contributions) and any repayments of amounts lost in accordance with Article 9 (loss of
benefits);          

c)   
    the regulatory contributions of the Employer;          

d)   
    any temporary remedial contributions from members and the Employer;          

e)   
    any grants, donations and bequests;          

f)   
    insurance benefits and residual balances which, for whatever reason, are not allocated to the beneficiaries;          

g)   
    income on its assets.          Art. 47
- - Member s Contributions        

1.   
    Each member must pay contributions from the time he joins the IC Pension Plan and for as long as he is a member of that plan, but no later than the date on which
he is recognized as disabled, or until the date he reaches normal retirement age. Article 31 (maintenance of insurance as an external member) remains applicable.          

2.   
    The member s annual contribution is equal to:          

a.   
    contributory salary I:          

b.   
    contributory salary II: 6 %          

3.   
    The member s contribution to the IC Pension Plan is deducted from the member s salary each year.          Art. 48 - Employer s contribution        

1.   
    As long as the member is required to pay contributions, the Employer shall do so as well.          

2.   
    For each active member, the Employer pays a contribution equal to the contribution amount paid by the member. The Employer s contribution is transferred to
the IC Pension Plan together with the member s contribution.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 19   
               Art. 49 - Remedial measures        

1.   
    If and for as long as the IC Pension Plan is underfunded within the meaning of the LPP, the Pension Board may deduct a temporary remedial contribution from the
Employer and active members within the limits prescribed by law.          

2.   
    The Employer s remedial contribution may only be deducted with its consent.          

3.   
    The remedial contribution is not included for the purpose of calculating the minimum vested termination benefits (Article 27) and lump-sum death benefits
(Article 22).          

4.   
    If the IC Pension Plan is underfunded within the meaning of the LPP, the Pension Board may suspend payment of interest on accrued assets until the Plan regains a
balanced financial position.          

5.   
    If the IC Pension Plan is underfunded, the Pension Board may suspend the right to make voluntary contributions in accordance with Article 8 above.

6.   
    The Pension Board shall inform members of the scope and duration of any remedial measures.          Art. 50 - Assets        

1.   
    The IC Pension Plan s liability for the obligations hereunder is limited to its assets.          

2.   
    The Employers assume no responsibility whatsoever for the obligations of the Pension Fund pursuant to these Regulations.          

5.    
     Administration           Art. 51
- - Pension Board        

1.   
    The Pension Board, established in accordance with Article 8 of the Fund s Statutes, is the sole governing body of the Fund. The Pension Board organises
itself; in particular, it elects a Chair from among its number.          

2.   
    The Board is made up of an even number, with at least six members, as follows:          

-   
    one half consists of members appointed by the Employer, represented by the Philip Morris Products SA Board of Directors;          

-   
    one half consists of members elected by the active members and chosen from among their number, in accordance with the procedure established by the outgoing
Pension Board.          

3.   
    The Fund guarantees the initial and ongoing training of Pension Board members to enable them to fully assume their administrative duties.

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 20   
               Art. 52 - Term of Office        

1.   
    The members of the Board have a 3-year term of office; on expiry, the members may be immediately reappointed or re-elected.          

2.   
    The term of office of members appointed by the Board of Directors ends on the date stipulated in the relevant oral or written agreement.

3.   
    If a member of the Pension Board leaves the Employer or resigns from the Board before the end of the three-year term, he shall be immediately replaced by a
successor who will complete the outgoing member s term of office. The successor may be a deputy appointed or elected in advance, or a member appointed or elected mutatis mutandis pursuant to Article 51 (Pension Board).
         Art. 53 - Duties, Powers, Convening, Resolutions        

1.   
    The duties of the Pension Board, its powers, the rules for convening the Board and for decision-making are laid down in the Statutes of the Pension Fund.

2.   
    The Pension Board represents the Pension Fund vis- -vis third parties and designates the persons authorised to bind the Fund by joint signature.

3.   
    On its own authority, it may delegate certain administrative and daily management duties to one or more of its members, to administrative staff members of the
Altria/Philip Morris Group, or to third parties. Such delegations of power may be revoked at any time.          Art. 54 -
Meetings and Resolutions        

1.   
    The Board meets when convened, at least once a year, at such place and date at it may decide.          

2.   
    The Board may validly pass resolutions at each meeting, provided a majority of its members are present.          

3.   
    Resolutions are passed by a simple majority. The chair takes part in the vote.          

4.   
    The Board may validly vote by correspondence if the object of the vote has been communicated in writing to all members and is approved by all.
         Art. 55 - Auditors        

1.   
    The auditors may be:          

-   
    a member of a group affiliated to the Swiss Chamber of Trustees and Auditors, or a member of the Swiss Organization of Certified Public Accountants;

-   
    an auditing company recognized by the Federal Social Security Office or by the regulatory authority.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 21   

2.   
    The auditors appointed by the Pension Board verify each year the conduct of business, the financial statements, the investments and the retirement accounts of
the IC Pension Plan.          

3.   
    The auditors submit a written report on their observations and findings to the Pension Board and the regulatory authority.          Art. 56 - Accredited Pension Actuary        

1.   
    The accredited pension actuary appointed by the Board shall periodically verify that:          

a)   
    the IC Pension Plan offers the assurance that it can meet its obligations;          

b)   
    the actuarial provisions concerning benefits and financing comply with legal requirements.          

2.   
    If the actuary finds shortcomings, he shall propose appropriate remedial action to the Board to eliminate such deficiencies.          

3.   
    In case of underfunding, the actuary shall propose remedial measures to the Pension Board with a view to restoring the Plan s balanced financial position
within a reasonable period of time.          Art. 57 - Liability, Confidentiality        

1.   
    All persons responsible for the administration, management, or auditing of the IC Pension Plan shall be liable for any loss or damage they may cause the Plan
wilfully or by negligence.          

2.   
    The persons referred to in paragraph 1 are bound to maintain confidentiality in respect of all facts and information of a confidential nature that may come to
their knowledge during the course of their work.          

3.   
    The Employer shall be liable for any loss or damage suffered by the IC Pension Plan as a result of its failure to provide material information to the latter (in
particular: new members, salaries, salary changes, termination of employment, etc.)          Art. 58 - Information

1.   
    The Fund sends each member an insurance certificate for the IC Pension Plan at least once a year.          

2.   
    The certificate shows the member s insurance situation, particularly the following amounts: insured benefits, contributory salary, and vested termination
benefit. In the event of discrepancy between the insurance certificate and these Regulations, the Regulations shall take precedence.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 22   

3.   
    Moreover, the Fund sends each member, at least once a year, a summary annual report containing information, inter alia, on the IC Pension Plan organization and
financing, and on the composition of the Pension Board.          

4.   
    The Fund also informs members at their request of the return on capital, trends in actuarial risk, administrative expenses, mathematical reserve calculation
rules, additional reserves and funded status. It bases its information on the most recent report of the accredited pension actuary.          

6.    
     Transitional Provisions           Art. 59 - Voluntary Contributions on the Entry into Effect of the IC Plan        

1.   
    The regulations effective on 1 February 2005 concerning the purchase of benefits on the entry into effect of the IC Pension Plan, remain applicable.
         Art. 60 - Early retirement age        
     Art. 61 - Disability Benefits        

1.   
    When the incapacity for work, the cause of which led to the disability, commenced between 1 February and 31 December 2005, entitlement to disability
benefits is governed exclusively by the regulations which came into effect on 1 February 2005          

7.    
     Final Provisions           Art.
62 - Amendment of the Regulations        

1.   
    The Pension Board may amend these Regulations at any time provided it does not reduce members  vested benefits calculated at the date of the amendment.
         Art. 63 - Interpretation        

1.   
    Any cases not expressly provided for in these Regulations shall be decided by the Pension Board taking into account the meaning and spirit of the Statutes of the
Pension Fund, these Regulations of the IC Pension Fund, applicable legislation and the corresponding implementation ordinances.      

Caisse de pensions Philip Morris en Suisse   

R glement IC Pension Plan   
      
  page 23   
               Art. 64 - Disputes        

1.   
    Any dispute arising out of the interpretation, the application or non-application of these Regulations shall be submitted to the competent courts at the
registered office or Swiss domicile of the defendant, or of the place of business in Switzerland where the member was employed.          Art. 65 - Translations        

1.   
    These Regulations were drawn up in French; they may be translated into English.          

2.   
    In case of discrepancy between the French version and the English translation, the French version shall take precedence.          Art. 66 - Supplementary Regulations        

1.   
    To comply with occupational pension legislation, the Board shall draw up supplementary regulations defining conditions and procedure in the event of partial
liquidation. They shall be submitted to the regulatory authority for approval.          

2.   
    The Board shall also establish an investment policy covering investment allocation and providing rules for asset allocation, the reference framework, and the
organization of day to day management.          Art. 67 - Effective Date        

2.   
    They shall be submitted to the competent regulatory authority.          

3.   
    They shall be published on the Employer s intranet site and a hard copy shall be sent to members upon request.      

</EX-10.43>

<EX-10.44>
 5
 dex1044.htm
 SUMMARY OF SUPPLEMENTAL PENSION PLAN OF PHILIP MORRIS IN SWITZERLAND

Summary of Supplemental Pension Plan of Philip Morris in Switzerland 

Exhibit 10.44            Supplemental Pension Plan of Philip Morris in Switzerland        Plan Summary

Overview:   
     
  A non-qualified plan that provides retirement, disability and death benefits to executives whose retirement benefits would otherwise be limited by the compensation caps under the Federal Law on
Occupational Retirement, Survivors  and Disability Pension Plans in Switzerland (LPP). This plan is not intended to otherwise increase the benefits promised under the broad-based retirement plans.   

Eligible Population:   
     
  Swiss-based employees in salary band D or above, or those with pensionable earnings in excess of the salary limit described in article 79c of the LPP, currently 795,600 CHF.   

Benefits:   
     
    The benefits under this plan are determined based on the formulas of the Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland and the Philip Morris in Switzerland IC Plan (formula applicable to
salary bands G and below), respectively, without regard to the compensation limits applicable to those plans. Offsetting these benefits under this plan are those benefits earned under the Pension Fund of Philip Morris in Switzerland and the Philip
Morris in Switzerland IC Plan and any personal contributions that employees would have made to those plans absent the compensation limits.   

Employee Contributions:   
     
      None    

Company Contributions:   
     
    100% funded by the company into a non-qualified trust arrangement.   

Form of Payment:   
     
    Lump sum payment at retirement, disability, death or termination of employment, subject to approval of the plan s Board of Trustees.   

Tax Impact:   
     
    Benefits are taxable to the employee upon distribution and a tax gross-up will be applied.   

</EX-10.44>

<EX-12>
 6
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENTS RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS.

Statements re: computation of ratios. 

Exhibit 12       ALTRIA GROUP, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES      Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges      (in millions of dollars)                 
    (A) Reflects Kraft Foods Inc. as a discontinued operation. Interest incurred and the portion of rent expense
deemed to represent interest factor of Kraft have been excluded from fixed charges in the computation. Including these amounts in fixed charges, the ratio of earnings to fixed charges would have been 15.8, 8.8, 7.0, 6.6 and 6.4 for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively.   

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 7
 dex13.htm
 PAGES 17 TO 93 OF THE 2007 ANNUAL REPORT

Pages 17 to 93 of the 2007 Annual Report 

Exhibit 13          
  FINANCIAL REVIEW         

Financial Contents   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
      
  page 18   

Selected Financial Data   Five-Year Review  
      
  page 47   

Consolidated Balance Sheets  
      
  page 48   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  
      
  page 50   

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity  
      
  page 51   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
      
  page 52   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
      
  page 54   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
      
  page 92   

Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
      
  page 93   

Guide To Select Disclosures   

For easy reference, areas that may be of interest to investors are highlighted in the index below.   

Acquisitions   Note 5  
      
  page 60   

Benefit Plans   Note 16 includes a discussion of pension plans  
      
  page 70   

Contingencies   Note 19 includes a discussion of litigation  
      
  page 76   

Finance Assets, net   Note 8 includes a discussion of leasing activities  
      
  page 62   

Philip Morris International Spin-Off  
      
  Inside cover/page 18   

Kraft Spin-Off  
      
  page 19   

Segment Reporting   Note 15  
      
  page 69   

Stock Plans   Note 12 includes a discussion of stock compensation  
      
  page 65   
             
   17   

Exhibit 13          
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations              Description of the Company             Throughout Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations, the term  Altria Group, Inc.  refers to the consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Altria family of companies and the term  ALG  refers solely to the parent company. ALG s
wholly-owned subsidiaries, Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) and John Middleton, Inc. are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products. Philip Morris
Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, ALG held a 28.6% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ) at
December 31, 2007. ALG s access to the operating cash flows of its subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and interest, and the repayment of amounts borrowed from ALG by its subsidiaries. In 2007, ALG received
$6.6 billion in cash dividends from PMI.            On March 30,
2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods, Inc. ( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution.  For further discussion, please refer to the Kraft
Spin-Off discussion below.  Altria Group, Inc. has reclassified and reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash
flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.             PMI Spin-Off             On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors announced that Altria Group, Inc. plans to spin off all of its interest in PMI to Altria
Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The distribution of all the PMI shares owned by Altria Group, Inc. is expected to be made on March 28, 2008 (the  PMI Distribution Date ), to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of
record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the  PMI Record Date ). Altria Group, Inc. will distribute one share of PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date.
Following the PMI Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. will not own any shares of PMI common stock. Altria Group, Inc. intends to adjust its current dividend so that its stockholders who retain their Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares will receive,
in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the PMI Distribution Date. Following the distribution, PMI s initial annualized dividend rate will be $1.84 per common share and Altria Group, Inc. s initial annualized dividend rate
will be $1.16 per common share. All decisions regarding future dividends will be made independently by the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors and the PMI Board of Directors, for their respective companies.            Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options will be treated similarly to
public stockholders and will, accordingly, have their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options will receive the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, will have an aggregate
intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:         

a new PMI option to acquire the same number of shares of PMI common stock as the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held by such person on the PMI Distribution
Date; and            

an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      
        Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded
prior to January 30, 2008, will retain their existing awards and will receive the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original
restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who will be employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, will
receive additional shares of deferred stock of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who will be employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution
Date, will receive substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to preserve the intrinsic value of the award.                    To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. receive PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc. will reimburse PMI in cash for the Black-Scholes fair
value of the stock options to be received. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI will reimburse Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that employees of
the remaining Altria Group, Inc. receive PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. will pay to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. restricted
stock or deferred stock, PMI will reimburse Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously charged to PMI for the restricted or deferred stock.
Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at December 31, 2007, the net amount of these reimbursements is estimated to be approximately $427 million from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI. However, this estimate is subject to
change as stock awards vest (in the case of restricted and deferred stock) or are exercised (in the case of stock options) prior to the PMI Record Date.            PMI is currently included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and PMI s federal income tax contingencies are recorded
as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG (the parent company). Prior to the distribution of PMI shares, ALG will reimburse PMI in cash for these liabilities, which are approximately $97 million.            A subsidiary of ALG currently provides PMI with certain corporate services at
cost plus a management fee. After the PMI Distribution Date, PMI will independently undertake these activities, and services provided to PMI will cease in 2008. All intercompany accounts will be settled in cash.            Certain employees of PMI participate in the U.S. benefit plans offered by
Altria Group, Inc. After the PMI Distribution Date, the benefits previously  
       
   18   

Exhibit 13          
  
 provided by Altria Group, Inc. will be provided by PMI. As a result, new plans will be established by PMI, and the related plan assets (to the extent that
the benefit plans were previously funded) and liabilities will be transferred to the new plans. The transfer of these benefits will result in PMI recording an additional liability of approximately $98 million in its consolidated balance sheet,
partially offset by the related deferred tax assets ($37 million) and the corresponding SFAS 158 adjustment to stockholders  equity ($23 million). Altria Group, Inc. will pay PMI a corresponding amount of $38 million in cash, which is net of
the related tax benefit.            Altria Group, Inc. currently
estimates that, if the distribution had occurred on December 31, 2007, it would have resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity of approximately $15 billion.             Dividends and Share Repurchases             In conjunction with its announcement of the PMI spin-off, the Board of Directors reaffirmed
its intention to adjust Altria Group, Inc. s dividend immediately following the spin-off so that Altria Group, Inc. stockholders who retain their PMI shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same annual cash dividend rate of $3.00 per common
share that existed before the spin-off. Altria Group, Inc. is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.29 per common share per quarter, or $1.16 per common share on an annualized basis. Altria Group, Inc. has established a dividend
policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 75% post-spin. PMI is expected to pay a dividend at the initial rate of $0.46 per common share per quarter, or $1.84 per common share on an annualized basis. PMI has established a dividend
policy that anticipates a payout ratio of approximately 65% post-spin. Payment of future cash dividends will be at the discretion of the Boards of Directors of the respective companies.            In addition, the Board of Directors approved share repurchase programs as follows:         

for Altria Group, Inc. a $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program that is expected to begin in April 2008, after completion of the spin-off; and

for PMI, a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program that is expected to begin in May 2008.                Tender Offer for Altria Group, Inc. Notes             In connection with Altria Group, Inc. s planned spin-off of PMI, on January 31,
2008, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. commenced tender offers to purchase for cash $2.6 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately  1.0 billion in euro-denominated
bonds.            While Altria Group, Inc. believes that the proposed
spin-off of PMI is not prohibited by the indentures, it believes that it is desirable to eliminate any uncertainty by amending the indentures with the consent of note holders.            In order to finance the tender offer, Altria Group, Inc. arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan agreement with
substantially the same terms as its existing credit facilities. Subsequent to the spin-off of PMI, Altria Group, Inc. intends to issue new public debt to refinance debt incurred under the bridge loan agreement. The tender offer and consent
solicitation is expected to result in first quarter 2008 charges of approximately $400 million.             Kraft Spin-Off             On March 30, 2007
(the  Kraft Distribution Date ), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 (the  Kraft
Record Date ) in a tax-free distribution. The distribution ratio was 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of
Kraft. Following the distribution, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. During the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share, so that its stockholders who retained their Altria
Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the distribution. In August 2007, Altria Group, Inc. increased its quarterly dividend to $0.75 per share.            Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options were treated similarly to public
stockholders and accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the
intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:         

a new Kraft option to acquire the number of shares of Kraft Class A common stock equal to the product of (a) the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held
by such person on the Kraft Distribution Date and (b) the distribution ratio of 0.692024; and            

an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      
            The new Kraft option has an exercise price equal to the Kraft
market price at the time of the distribution ($31.66) multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio, which represents the exercise price of the original Altria Group, Inc. option divided by the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately before the
distribution ($87.81). The reduced exercise price of the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option was determined by multiplying the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately following the distribution ($65.90) by the Option Conversion Ratio.   
        Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock awarded
prior to January 31, 2007, retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock. The amount of Kraft restricted stock or deferred stock awarded to such holders was calculated using the
same formula set forth above with respect to new Kraft options. All of the restricted stock and deferred stock will vest at the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of
Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 31, 2007, did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft. Rather, they received additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original
award.            To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria
Group, Inc. received Kraft stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed Kraft in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that Kraft employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, Kraft reimbursed Altria
Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that holders of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock received Kraft deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to Kraft the fair value of the Kraft deferred stock
less the value of projected forfeitures. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the Kraft Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of  
       
   19   

Exhibit 13          
  
 $179 million from Kraft to Altria Group, Inc. in April 2007. The reimbursement from Kraft is reflected as an increase to the additional paid-in capital of
Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet.            Kraft was previously included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. As part of the
intercompany account settlement discussed below, ALG reimbursed Kraft in cash for these liabilities, which as of March 30, 2007, were approximately $305 million, plus pre-tax interest of $63 million ($41 million after taxes). ALG also
reimbursed Kraft in cash for the federal income tax consequences of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB
Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ) (approximately $70 million plus pre-tax interest of $14 million, $9 million after taxes). See Note 14.  Income Taxes  for a discussion of the FIN 48 adoption and the Tax Sharing Agreement
between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft.            A subsidiary of ALG
previously provided Kraft with certain services at cost plus a 5% management fee. After the Kraft Distribution Date, Kraft undertook these activities, and any remaining limited services provided to Kraft ceased during 2007. All intercompany accounts
were settled in cash within 30 days of the Kraft Distribution Date. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed above related to stock awards and tax contingencies) resulted in a net payment from Kraft to ALG of $85
million in April 2007.            The distribution resulted in a net
decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity of $27.4 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.             Other             On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA s adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash.
The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc. s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts
of which were insignificant, have been included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated operating results.            In November 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced that it had signed an agreement to sell its headquarters building in New York City for approximately $525
million and will record a pre-tax gain of approximately $400 million upon closing the transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, Altria Group, Inc. plans to close the sale no later than April 1, 2008.            Beginning with the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. revised its
reportable segments to reflect PMI s operations by geographic region. Altria Group, Inc. s revised segments are U.S. tobacco; European Union; Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa; Asia; Latin America; and Financial Services. Accordingly,
prior year segment results have been revised.            Certain
subsidiaries of PMI have always reported their results up to ten days before the end of December, rather than on December 31.             Executive Summary             The following executive summary is intended to provide significant highlights of the Discussion and Analysis that follows.                       Consolidated Operating Results    The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from continuing
operations and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) from continuing operations for the year ended December 31, 2007, from the year ended December 31, 2006, were due primarily to the following:         
          See discussion of events affecting the
comparability of statement of earnings amounts in the Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.                      Asset Impairment, Exit and Implementation Costs      In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced
plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to
re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. From 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total
pre-tax asset impairment, exit and implementation charges of approximately $670 million for the program, including $371 million ($234 million after taxes) incurred during 2007. During 2006, PM USA recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of
$10 million ($6 million after taxes). During 2007 and 2006, PMI recorded pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $195 million ($143 million after taxes) and $126 million ($86 million after taxes), respectively. In addition, during 2007 and 2006,
pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $111 million ($75 million after taxes) and $42 million ($26 million after taxes) were recorded in general corporate expense.  For further details on asset impairment, exit and implementation costs,
see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.          
   20   

Exhibit 13          
             Recoveries/Provision from/for Airline Industry Exposure
   As discussed in Note 8.  Finance Assets, net , ( Note 8 ) PMCC recorded a pre-tax gain of $214 million ($137 million after taxes) on the sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease
investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $103 million ($66 million after taxes), due to issues within the
airline industry.                      Interest on Tax Reserve Transfers to Kraft    As further discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation  and Note 14.  Income Taxes , the interest on tax reserves
transferred to Kraft is related to the Kraft spin-off, the adoption of FIN 48 in 2007 and the conclusion of an IRS audit in 2006.                      Italian Antitrust Charge      During the first quarter of 2006, PMI recorded a $61 million
charge related to an Italian antitrust action.               
       Gain on Sale of Business      The 2006 gain on sale of a business was due to a $488 million pre-tax gain ($317 million after taxes) on the exchange of PMI s interest in a beer business in return for
cash proceeds of $427 million and 100% ownership of a cigarette business in the Dominican Republic.                      Currency      The favorable currency impact is due primarily to the weakness of the U.S. dollar versus the euro, Russian ruble and Turkish
lira, partially offset by the strength of the U.S. dollar versus the Japanese yen.                      Income Taxes      Altria Group, Inc. s effective tax rate increased 4.3 percentage points to 31.5%. The 2007 effective tax rate includes net tax benefits of
$111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter) and $42 million related to the reduction
of deferred tax liabilities resulting from future lower tax rates enacted in Germany in the third quarter. The tax rate in 2007 also includes the reversal of tax accruals of $98 million no longer required in the fourth quarter. The 2006 effective
tax rate includes $631 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns
for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The 2006 rate also includes the reversal of foreign tax reserves no longer required at PMI of $105 million.       
               Shares Outstanding    Higher shares outstanding during 2007 primarily reflects
exercises of employee stock options (which become outstanding when exercised) and the incremental share impact of stock options outstanding.                      Continuing Operations    The increase in earnings from continuing
operations was due primarily to the following:         

Higher Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa income, reflecting higher pricing and higher volume/mix, partially offset by higher marketing, administration and
research costs;            

Higher European Union income, reflecting higher pricing, and lower marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by lower volume/mix;

Higher U.S. tobacco income, reflecting lower wholesale promotional allowance rates and lower marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by lower
volume and higher ongoing resolution costs; and            

Higher Latin America income, reflecting higher pricing, partially offset by higher marketing, administration and research costs;               partially offset by:         

Lower financial services income (after excluding the impact of the recoveries/provision from/for airline industry exposure), reflecting lower gains from asset
management activity and lower lease revenues; and            

Lower Asia income, reflecting lower volume/mix and higher marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by higher pricing.
               For further details, see the Consolidated Operating
Results and Operating Results by Business Segment sections of the following Discussion and Analysis.                       2008 Forecasted Results    In January 2008, Altria Group, Inc. announced that it forecasts 2008 full-year diluted earnings per share from
continuing operations, excluding PMI, which will be accounted for as a discontinued operation for the full-year 2008, following the PMI spin-off, to be in the range of $1.63 to $1.67, representing a growth rate of approximately 9% to 11% for the
full-year 2008, from a base of $1.50 per share in 2007. This forecast reflects a higher effective tax rate, the contribution of income from recently acquired John Middleton, Inc. and the impact of share repurchases. Earnings per share growth is
expected to be stronger in the second half of 2008.            Reconciliation of 2007
Reported Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations to 2007 Adjusted Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations         
          The forecast excludes
the impact of any potential future acquisitions or divestitures (other than the PMI spin-off), Altria Group, Inc. s gain on the sale of its headquarters in New York City, charges related to the tender offer for Altria Group, Inc. s notes
and a number of other factors including the items shown in the table above. The factors described in the  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results  section of the following  Discussion and Analysis  represent continuing risks to
this forecast.         
   21   

Exhibit 13          
    Discussion and Analysis              Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates          
  Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group,
Inc. s consolidated financial statements. In most instances, Altria Group, Inc. must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America ( U.S. GAAP ).            The preparation of financial
statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and
expenses during the reporting periods. If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become
known. Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between Altria Group, Inc. s estimates and actual amounts in any year, have not had a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements.            The selection and disclosure of Altria Group, Inc. s critical accounting
policies and estimates have been discussed with Altria Group, Inc. s Audit Committee. The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria
Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements:                      Consolidation    The consolidated financial statements include ALG, as well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. Investments in which ALG exercises significant influence
(20%-50% ownership interest), are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Investments in which ALG has an ownership interest of less than 20%, or does not exercise significant influence, are accounted for with the cost method of
accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.                      Revenue Recognition    As required by U.S. GAAP, Altria Group, Inc. s consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and including shipping
and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment or delivery of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers. ALG s consumer products businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in revenues. Shipping and handling
costs are classified as part of cost of sales.               
       Depreciation, Amortization and Goodwill Valuation    Altria Group, Inc. depreciates property, plant and equipment and amortizes its definite life intangible assets using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of the assets.            Altria Group, Inc. is
required to conduct an annual review of goodwill and intangible assets for potential impairment. Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the
fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for
non-amortizable intangible assets requires a comparison between the fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. These
calculations may be affected by interest rates, general economic conditions and projected growth rates.            During 2007, 2006 and 2005, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual review of goodwill and intangible assets, and no charges resulted from these reviews.
                     Marketing and
Advertising Costs    As required by U.S. GAAP, Altria Group, Inc. records marketing costs as an expense in the year to which such costs relate. Altria Group, Inc. does not defer amounts on its year-end consolidated balance sheets with
respect to marketing costs. Altria Group, Inc. expenses advertising costs in the year incurred. Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and
consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. For interim
reporting purposes, advertising and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.                      Contingencies    As
discussed in Note 19.  Contingencies  ( Note 19 ) to the consolidated financial statements, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various U.S. and foreign jurisdictions against ALG, its
subsidiaries and affiliates, including PM USA and PMI, as well as their respective indemnitees. In 1998, PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) with 46 states
and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi,
Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). PM USA s portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its relative share of the settling manufacturers  domestic
cigarette shipments, including roll-your-own cigarettes, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due. PM USA records its portion of ongoing settlement payments as part of cost of sales as product is shipped. During the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, PM USA recorded expenses of $5.5 billion, $5.0 billion and $5.0 billion, respectively, as part of cost of sales for the payments under the State Settlement Agreements and payments for tobacco growers and
quota-holders.            ALG and its subsidiaries record provisions in
the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. Except as discussed in Note 19: at the present time, while it is
reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the
possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable
outcomes, if any. Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.                      Employee Benefit Plans    As discussed in Note 16.  Benefit Plans  ( Note 16 ) of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of
benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance). Altria Group, Inc. records annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by
U.S. GAAP, which  
       
   22   

Exhibit 13          
  
 include various actuarial assumptions, such as discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care
cost trend rates. Altria Group, Inc. reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so. As permitted by U.S. GAAP, any effect of
the modifications is generally amortized over future periods. Altria Group, Inc. believes that the assumptions utilized in recording its obligations under its plans, which are presented in Note 16, are reasonable based on advice from its actuaries.
           In September 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  ( SFAS No. 158 ). SFAS
No. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and record as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or
losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. Altria Group, Inc. adopted the recognition and related disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158, prospectively, on
December 31, 2006. The adoption of SFAS No. 158 by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a decrease to total assets of $3,096 million, an increase in total liabilities of $290 million and a decrease to stockholders  equity of $3,386 million.
Included in these amounts were a decrease to Kraft s total assets of $2,286 million, a decrease to Kraft s total liabilities of $235 million and a decrease to Kraft s stockholders  equity of $2,051 million.            SFAS No. 158 also requires an entity to measure plan assets and benefit
obligations as of the date of its fiscal year-end statement of financial position for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Altria Group, Inc. s non-U.S. pension plans are measured at September 30 of each year. Subsidiaries of
PMI will adopt the measurement date provision in 2008 and will record the impact of the measurement date change, which is not expected to be significant, as an adjustment to retained earnings.            At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate assumption
increased to 6.20%, from 5.90% at December 31, 2006, for its U.S. pension and postretirement plans, and its weighted average discount rate assumption for non-U.S. pension plans increased to 4.66%, from 3.88% at December 31, 2006. Altria
Group, Inc. presently anticipates that this and other less significant assumption changes, coupled with the amortization of deferred gains and losses, will result in a decrease in 2008 pre-tax U.S. and non-U.S. pension and postretirement expense of
approximately $30 million, which is due primarily to PMI, and does not include amounts in 2007 related to early retirement programs. A fifty basis point decrease in Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate would increase Altria Group, Inc. s
pension and postretirement expense by approximately $81 million, whereas, a fifty basis point increase would lower expense by approximately $54 million. Similarly, a fifty basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would
increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension expense by approximately $46 million. See Note 16 for a sensitivity discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates.                      Income Taxes    Altria Group, Inc. accounts for income taxes in
accordance with SFAS No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities,
using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.            On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FIN 48.
The Interpretation prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax
position must be more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a
result of the January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders  equity of $857 million ($835 million, net of minority
interest), a reduction of Kraft s goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.            Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash
Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  ( FAS 13-2 ) effective January 1, 2007. This Staff Position requires the revenue recognition calculation to be reevaluated if there is a revision to the
projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease. The adoption of this Staff Position by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a reduction to stockholders  equity of $124 million as of January 1, 2007.            In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act ( the Jobs Act )
was signed into law. The Jobs Act includes a deduction for 85% of certain foreign earnings that are repatriated. In 2005, Altria Group, Inc. repatriated $5.5 billion of earnings under the provisions of the Jobs Act. Deferred taxes had previously
been provided for a portion of the dividends remitted. The reversal of the deferred taxes more than offset the tax costs to repatriate the earnings and resulted in a net tax reduction of $344 million in the 2005 consolidated income tax provision.
               The tax provision in 2007 includes net tax benefits of
$111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter) and $42 million related to the reduction
of deferred tax liabilities resulting from future lower tax rates enacted in Germany in the third quarter. The 2007 tax provision also includes the reversal in the fourth quarter of tax accruals of $98 million no longer required. The tax provision
in 2006 includes $631 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the
first quarter of 2006. The 2006 rate also includes the reversal in the fourth quarter of foreign tax reserves no longer required at PMI of $105 million. The tax provision in 2005 includes the $344 million benefit related to dividend repatriation
under the Jobs Act in 2005, as well as other benefits, including the impact of the domestic manufacturers  deduction under the Jobs Act and lower repatriation costs.       
               Hedging    As discussed below in  Market Risk,  Altria Group, Inc. uses
derivative financial instruments principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. meets the requirements of U.S. GAAP where it has elected to
apply hedge accounting to derivatives. As a result, gains and losses on these derivatives are deferred in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) and recognized in the consolidated statement of earnings in the periods when the related
hedged transaction is also  
       
   23   

Exhibit 13          
  
 recognized in operating results. If Altria Group, Inc. had elected not to use and comply with the hedge accounting provisions permitted under U.S. GAAP,
gains (losses) deferred in stockholders  equity as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, would have been recorded in net earnings.                      Impairment of Long-Lived Assets    Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including
amortizable intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to
determine if an impairment exists. These analyses are affected by interest rates, general economic conditions and projected growth rates. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment of assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups
assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if
any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.                      Leasing    Approximately 93% of PMCC s net revenues in 2007 related to leveraged leases. Income relating to leveraged leases is recorded initially as unearned
income, which is included in the line item finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets, and is subsequently recorded as net revenues over the life of the related leases at a constant after-tax rate of return. The
remainder of PMCC s net revenues consists primarily of amounts related to direct finance leases, with income initially recorded as unearned and subsequently recognized in net revenues over the life of the leases at a constant pre-tax rate of
return. As discussed further in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, PMCC leases certain assets that were affected by bankruptcy filings.            PMCC s investment in leases is included in the line item finance assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2007 and
2006. At December 31, 2007, PMCC s net finance receivable of $5.8 billion in leveraged leases, which is included in the line item on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet of finance assets, net, consists of rents receivables
($19.4 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($1.5 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($12.8 billion) and unearned income ($2.3 billion). The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments
receivable and the leased property, and is non-recourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has been presented on a net basis within the
line item finance assets, net, in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets. Finance assets, net, at December 31, 2007, also include net finance receivables for direct finance leases ($0.4 billion) and an allowance for losses ($0.2
billion).            Estimated residual values represent PMCC s
estimate at lease inception as to the fair value of assets under lease at the end of the lease term. The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management based on a number of factors and activity in the relevant industry. If
necessary, revisions to reduce the residual values are recorded. Such reviews resulted in decreases of $11 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, to PMCC s net revenues and results of operations. Such residual reviews resulted
in no adjustment in 2005. To the extent that lease receivables due PMCC may be uncollectible, PMCC records an allowance for losses against its finance assets. During 2007, PMCC recorded a pre-tax gain of $214 million on the sale of its ownership
interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006 and 2005, PMCC increased this allowance for losses by
$103 million and $200 million, respectively, primarily in recognition of issues within the airline industry. It is possible that additional adverse developments may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses in future periods.             Consolidated Operating Results             See pages 44 - 46 for a discussion of Cautionary Factors
That May Affect Future Results.         
          As discussed in Note
15.  Segment Reporting , management reviews operating companies income, which is defined as operating income before general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles, to evaluate segment performance and allocate resources. Management
believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze the business performance and trends of the various business segments.         
   24   

Exhibit 13          
   The following events that occurred during 2007, 2006 and 2005 affected the comparability of statement
of earnings amounts.                      Asset Impairment and Exit Costs    For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs consisted of the following:         
           Manufacturing Optimization Program
            In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco
subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to re-source its production,
PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57
billion cigarettes to PMI facilities in Europe by October 2008 and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.            As a result of this program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated
depreciation of $143 million (including the above mentioned asset impairment charge of $35 million recorded in 2007), employee separation costs of $353 million and other charges of $174 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and
equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this
program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated with the program. The pre-tax implementation costs primarily related to accelerated
depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately $140 million are expected during 2008 for the program. The program is expected to
generate pre-tax cost savings beginning in 2008, with total estimated annual cost savings of approximately $335 million by 2011, of which $179 million will be realized by PMI (by 2009) and $156 million will be realized by PM USA (by 2011).
            Philip Morris International Asset Impairment and Exit Costs    
        During 2007, 2006 and 2005, PMI announced plans for the streamlining of various
administrative functions and operations. These plans resulted in the announced closure or partial closure of 9 production facilities through December 31, 2007, the largest of which is the closure of a factory in Munich, Germany announced in
2006. As a result of these announcements, PMI recorded pre-tax charges of $195 million, $126 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 pre-tax charges primarily related to severance
costs. The 2006 pre-tax charges included $57 million of costs related to PMI s Munich, Germany factory closure. The 2005 pre-tax charges primarily related to the write-off of obsolete equipment, severance benefits and impairment charges
associated with the closure of a factory in the Czech Republic, and the streamlining of various operations. Pre-tax charges, primarily related to severance, of approximately $65 million related to these previously announced plans are expected during
2008.            Cash payments related to exit costs at PMI were $124
million, $44 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future cash payments for exit costs incurred to date are expected to be approximately $170 million.            The streamlining of these various functions and operations is expected to
result in the elimination of approximately 3,400 positions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 2,400 of these positions have been eliminated.             Corporate Asset Impairment and Exit Costs             In 2007, 2006 and 2005, general corporate pre-tax charges were $111 million, $42 million and $49 million, respectively. These charges were primarily related to investment
banking and legal fees in 2007 associated with the Kraft and contemplated PMI spin-off, as well as the streamlining of various corporate functions in each year.                      Italian Antitrust Charge    During the first quarter of 2006, PMI
recorded a $61 million charge related to an Italian antitrust action. This charge was included in the operating companies income of the European Union segment.         
            Loss on U.S. Tobacco Pool      As further discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial
statements, in October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into law. Under the provisions of FETRA, PM USA was obligated to cover its share of potential losses that the government may incur on the
disposition of pool tobacco stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. In 2005, PM USA recorded a $138 million pre-tax expense for its share of the loss.                      U.S. Tobacco Quota Buy-Out    The provisions of FETRA require PM USA,
along with other manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, to make quarterly payments that will be used to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders affected by the legislation. Payments made by PM USA under FETRA offset amounts due under
the provisions of the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust ( NTGST ), a trust formerly established to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders. Disputes arose as to the applicability of FETRA to 2004 NTGST payments. During the
third quarter of 2005, a North Carolina Supreme Court ruling determined that FETRA enact-  
       
   25   

Exhibit 13          
  
 ment had not triggered the offset provisions during 2004 and that tobacco companies were required to make full payment to the NTGST for the full year of
2004. The ruling, along with FETRA billings from the United States Department of Agriculture ( USDA ), established that FETRA was effective beginning in 2005. PM USA had accrued for 2004 FETRA charges and after the clarification of the
court ruling, PM USA reversed a 2004 accrual for FETRA payments in the amount of $115 million.                      Inventory Sale in Italy      During the first quarter of 2005, PMI made a one-time inventory sale of 4.0 billion units to its new distributor
in Italy, resulting in a $96 million pre-tax benefit to operating companies income for the European Union segment. During the second quarter of 2005, the new distributor reduced its inventories by approximately 1.0 billion units, resulting in lower
shipments for PMI. The net impact of these actions was a benefit to the European Union segment pre-tax operating companies income of approximately $70 million for the year ended December 31, 2005.                      Gain on Sale of a Business
   During 2006, operating companies income of the Latin America segment included a pre-tax gain of $488 million related to the exchange of PMI s interest in a beer business in return for cash proceeds of $427 million and 100% ownership
of a cigarette business in the Dominican Republic.                      Recoveries/Provision from/for Airline Industry Exposure    As discussed in Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements, during 2007, PMCC recorded pre-tax gains of $214 million on the
sale of its ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006, PMCC increased its allowance for
losses by $103 million, due to issues within the airline industry. During 2005, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $200 million, reflecting its exposure to the airline industry, particularly Delta Air Lines, Inc. ( Delta ) and
Northwest Airlines, Inc. ( Northwest ), both of which filed for bankruptcy protection during 2005.                      Income Tax Benefit    The tax provision in 2007 included net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated
interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter) and $42 million related to the reduction of deferred tax liabilities resulting from future lower tax rates
enacted in Germany in the third quarter. The tax provision in 2007 also included the reversal in the fourth quarter of tax accruals of $98 million no longer required. The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax
returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. Consequently, in March 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded non-cash tax benefits of $1.0 billion, which principally
represented the reversal of tax reserves following the issuance of and agreement with the RAR. Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed $337 million in cash to Kraft for its portion of the $1.0 billion in tax benefits, as well as pre-tax interest of $46
million. The amounts related to Kraft were reclassified to earnings from discontinued operations. The tax reversal resulted in an increase to earnings from continuing operations of approximately $631 million for the year ended December 31,
2006. The 2006 tax provision also included the reversal in the fourth quarter of foreign tax reserves no longer required at PMI of $105 million. The tax provision in 2005 included a $344 million benefit related to dividend repatriation under the
American Jobs Creation Act.                      Discontinued Operations    As a result of the Kraft spin-off, which is more fully discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation,  to the consolidated financial
statements, Altria Group, Inc., has reclassified and reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all
periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.            2007 compared with 2006            The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007, with the year ended December 31, 2006.            Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $6.8
billion (10.1%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $2.1 billion (5.8%), due primarily to the favorable impact of currency and higher revenues from the Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa segment, the European Union segment, the Latin
America segment and the Asia segment, and the impact of acquisitions at PMI, partially offset by lower revenues from the financial services segment.            Excise taxes on products increased $4.7 billion (15.0%) due primarily to currency movements ($2.3 billion) and higher excise tax rates ($2.4
billion). As discussed in Tobacco Business Environment, there is a trend toward governments  increasing excise taxes in all of the markets in which Altria Group, Inc. operates. Excise taxes are expected to continue to rise.            Cost of sales increased $1.0 billion (6.5%), due primarily to higher ongoing
resolution costs ($489 million), currency movements ($447 million) and acquisitions ($85 million). Generally, tobacco and materials costs have not increased significantly and productivity initiatives have tended to offset higher depreciation and
salary expenses.            Marketing, administration and research costs
increased $141 million (1.8%), due primarily to currency movements ($260 million), acquisitions and divestitures ($124 million), expenses related to the termination of a distributor relationship in Indonesia ($30 million), and higher research and
development costs ($27 million), partially offset by lower marketing expenses and lower general and administrative costs. Generally, research and development costs have tended to increase, reflecting efforts to develop products that may reduce the
risk of tobacco use. Marketing and selling expenses were lower, reflecting regulatory restrictions on advertising and promotion activities, and productivity initiatives.       
     Operating income increased $348 million (2.7%), due primarily to higher operating results from the Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa
segment, the European Union segment, the Latin America segment and the U.S. Tobacco segment; an increase at PMCC due to cash recoveries in 2007 from assets which had previously been written down versus a provision in 2006 for its airline industry
exposure; the favorable impact of currency; and the 2006 Italian antitrust charge. These items were partially offset by higher charges for asset impairment, exit and implementation costs, and the 2006 gain on sale of a business.            Currency movements increased net revenues by $3,513 million ($1,178 million,
after excluding the impact of currency movements on excise taxes) and operating income by $471 million. These increases were due primarily to the weakness versus prior year of the U.S. dollar against the euro, Russian ruble and the Turkish lira,
partially offset by the strength of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen.         
   26   

Exhibit 13          
   Interest and other debt expense, net, of $215 million decreased $152 million, due primarily to lower
average debt levels throughout most of 2007.            Altria Group,
Inc. s effective tax rate increased 4.3 percentage points to 31.5%. The 2007 effective tax rate includes net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes
of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter) and $42 million related to the reduction of deferred tax liabilities resulting from future lower tax rates enacted in Germany in the third quarter. The tax
provision in 2007 also includes the reversal of tax accruals of $98 million no longer required in the fourth quarter. The 2006 effective tax rate includes $631 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves
after the U.S. IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The 2006 rate also includes the reversal of foreign tax reserves no longer required at
PMI of $105 million.            Equity earnings and minority interest,
net, was $237 million for 2007, compared with $209 million for 2006. The change primarily reflected higher equity earnings from SABMiller.            Earnings from continuing operations of $9.2 billion decreased $168 million (1.8%), due primarily to a higher effective tax rate, partially offset by
higher operating income and lower interest and other debt expense, net. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $4.33 and $4.36, respectively, decreased by 2.3% and 2.5%, respectively.            Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes and minority
interest (which represent the results of Kraft prior to the spin-off), decreased $2.1 billion.            Net earnings of $9.8 billion decreased $2.2 billion (18.6%). Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings of $4.62 and $4.66, respectively, decreased by 19.1%. These decreases reflect the spin-off of Kraft at the end of
March 2007.            2006 compared with 2005            The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended
December 31, 2006, with the year ended December 31, 2005.            Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $3.3 billion (5.2%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $1.2 billion (3.3%), due primarily to increases from the Asia segment (including the impact of
acquisitions), Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa segment, U.S. tobacco segment and Latin America segment (including the impact of acquisitions), partially offset by lower revenues from the European Union segment and unfavorable currency.
           Excise taxes on products increased $2.1 billion (7.4%), due
primarily to higher excise tax rates ($1.9 billion) and acquisitions ($571 million), partially offset by currency movements ($311 million).            Cost of sales increased $621 million (4.2%), due primarily to acquisitions ($290 million), higher volume ($231 million) and higher product costs ($135
million).            Marketing, administration and research costs were
flat, due primarily to favorable currency ($153 million) and lower marketing expenses, offset by acquisitions ($115 million), higher general and administrative expenses, and higher research and development costs.            Operating income increased $1,047 million (8.8%), due primarily to the 2006
gain on sale of a business, higher operating results from all segments except the European Union segment, the 2005 charge for PM USA s portion of the losses incurred by the federal government on disposition of its pool tobacco stock, and a
lower provision for airline industry exposure at PMCC. These increases were partially offset by the unfavorable impact of currency, an unfavorable comparison with 2005, when PM USA benefited from the reversal of a 2004 accrual related to the tobacco
quota buy-out legislation, and the 2006 Italian antitrust charge in the European Union segment.            Currency movements decreased net revenues by $651 million ($340 million after excluding the impact of currency movements on excise taxes) and operating
income by $183 million. These decreases were due primarily to the strength versus prior year of the U.S. dollar against the Japanese yen and the Turkish lira.         
  Interest and other debt expense, net, of $367 million decreased $154 million (29.6%), due primarily to lower debt levels and higher interest income.
               Altria Group, Inc. s effective tax rate decreased
by 2.9 percentage points to 27.2%. The 2006 effective tax rate includes $631 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s
consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The 2006 rate also includes the reversal of foreign tax accruals no longer required at PMI of $105 million in the fourth quarter. The 2005 effective tax rate
includes a $344 million benefit related to dividend repatriation under the Jobs Act, as well as other benefits, including lower repatriation costs.            Equity earnings and minority interest, net, was $209 million for 2006, compared with $260 million for 2005. The change primarily reflected higher minority
interest in earnings in Turkey and Mexico, partially offset by higher equity earnings from SABMiller.            Earnings from continuing operations of $9.3 billion increased $1.2 billion (14.2%), due primarily to higher operating income, lower interest and other
debt expense, net, and a lower effective tax rate. Diluted and basic EPS from continuing operations of $4.43 and $4.47, respectively, increased by 13.3% and 13.2%, respectively.            Earnings from discontinued operations, net of income taxes and minority interest, of $2.7 billion increased $428 million
(18.9%), due to higher net earnings at Kraft.            Net earnings of
$12.0 billion increased $1.6 billion (15.2%). Diluted and basic EPS from net earnings of $5.71 and $5.76, respectively, increased by 14.4% and 14.3%, respectively.             Operating Results by Business Segment              Tobacco              Business Environment               Taxes,
Legislation, Regulation and Other Matters Regarding Tobacco and Smoking              The tobacco industry, both in the United States and abroad, faces a number of challenges that may adversely affect the business, volume, results of operations, cash flows and financial position of ALG and our tobacco companies. These
challenges, which are discussed below and in the  Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results  section, include:         

pending and threatened litigation and bonding requirements as discussed in Note 19.  Contingencies  ( Note 19             

competitive disadvantages related to price increases in the United States attributable to the settlement of certain tobacco litigation;
           
   27   

Exhibit 13          

actual and proposed excise tax increases worldwide as well as changes in tax structures;            

the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties;            

the sale of tobacco products by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid the collection of applicable taxes;

price gaps and changes in price gaps between premium and lowest price brands;            

diversion into one market of products intended for sale in another;          

the outcome of proceedings and investigations, and the potential assertion of claims, relating to contraband shipments of cigarettes;      

governmental investigations;            

actual and proposed requirements regarding the use and disclosure of tobacco product ingredients, flavors and other proprietary information;

actual and proposed restrictions on imports in certain jurisdictions outside the United States;            

actual and proposed restrictions affecting tobacco manufacturing, marketing, advertising and sales;            

governmental and private bans and restrictions on smoking;            

the diminishing prevalence of smoking and increased efforts by tobacco control advocates to further restrict smoking;            

governmental requirements setting ignition propensity standards for cigarettes; and            

actual and proposed tobacco legislation and regulation both inside and outside the United States.               In the ordinary course of business, our tobacco companies are subject to many
influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or
speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases.                      Excise Taxes:  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and to substantial taxation abroad. Significant increases in tobacco-related taxes or fees have been
proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States, the Member States of the European Union (the  EU ) and in other foreign jurisdictions. Legislation has been passed by the United States
Congress that would increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.61 a pack. The President has vetoed this legislation. It is not possible to predict whether such legislation will be reintroduced and become law. In addition, in certain
jurisdictions, PMI s products are subject to tax structures that discriminate against premium priced products and manufactured cigarettes and to inconsistent rulings and interpretations on complex methodologies to determine excise and other tax
burdens.            Tax increases and discriminatory tax structures are
expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of tobacco products by our tobacco subsidiaries, due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other
low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.                      Minimum Retail Selling Price Laws:  Several EU Member States have enacted laws establishing a minimum retail selling price for cigarettes and, in some cases, other tobacco
products. The European Commission has commenced infringement proceedings against these Member States, claiming that minimum retail selling price systems infringe EU law. Subsequently, in March 2007, the European Commission announced that it was
bringing an action against France, and on January 31, 2008, against Austria and Ireland in the European Court of Justice claiming that these countries  minimum retail selling price systems infringe EU law. The European Commission
previously announced that it had formally called upon Austria, Ireland and Italy to amend their legislation setting minimum retail selling prices for cigarettes. Should the European Commission prevail in the European Court of Justice, excise tax
levels and/or price gaps in those markets could be adversely affected.                      Tar and Nicotine Test Methods and Brand Descriptors:  A number of governments and public health organizations throughout the world have determined that the existing
standardized machine-based methods for measuring tar and nicotine yields in cigarettes do not provide useful information about tar and nicotine deliveries and that such results are misleading to smokers. For example, in the 2001 publication of
Monograph 13, the U.S. National Cancer Institute ( NCI ) concluded that measurements based on the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) standardized method  do not offer smokers meaningful information on the amount of tar and
nicotine they will receive from a cigarette  or  on the relative amounts of tar and nicotine exposure likely to be received from smoking different brands of cigarettes.  Thereafter, the FTC issued a press release indicating that it
would be working with the NCI to determine what changes should be made to its testing method to  correct the limitations  identified in Monograph 13. In 2002, PM USA petitioned the FTC to promulgate new rules governing the use of existing
standardized machine-based methodologies for measuring tar and nicotine yields and descriptors. That petition remains pending. In addition, the World Health Organization ( WHO ) has concluded that these standardized measurements are
 seriously flawed  and that measurements based upon the current standardized methodology  are misleading and should not be displayed.  The International Organization for Standardization ( ISO ) established a working
group, chaired by the WHO, to propose a new measurement method that would more accurately reflect human smoking behavior. PM USA and PMI have supported the concept of supplementing the ISO test method with a more intensive method, which PM USA and
PMI believe would better illustrate the wide variability in the delivery of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, depending on how an individual smokes a cigarette.            The working group has issued a final report proposing two alternative measurement methods. Currently, ISO is in the process
of deciding whether to begin further development of the two methods or to wait for additional guidance from the Conference of the Parties.            In light of public health concerns about the limitations of current machine measurement methodologies, governments and public health organizations have
increasingly challenged the use of descriptors   such as  light,   mild,  and  low tar    that are based on measurements produced by those methods. For example, the Scientific Advisory Committee of the WHO
concluded that descriptors such as  light, ultra-light, mild and low tar  are  misleading terms  and should be banned. In 2003, the WHO proposed the Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ( FCTC ), a treaty that
requires  
       
   28   

Exhibit 13          
  
 signatory nations to adopt and implement measures to ensure that descriptive terms do not create  the false impression that a particular tobacco product
is less harmful than other tobacco products.  Such terms  may include  low tar,   light,   ultra-light,  or  mild.   Many countries prohibit or are in the process of prohibiting descriptors such
as  lights.  In most countries where descriptors are banned, tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields are still required to be printed on packs of cigarettes. PMI advocates that where descriptors are banned, governments should also
prohibit the printing of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields on packs of cigarettes. See Note 19, which describes pending litigation concerning the use of brand descriptors. As discussed in Note 19, in August 2006, a federal trial court entered
judgment in favor of the United States government in its lawsuit against various cigarette manufacturers and others, including PM USA and ALG, and enjoined the defendants from using brand descriptors, such as  lights, 
 ultra-lights  and  low tar.  In October 2006, the Court of Appeals stayed enforcement of the judgment pending its review of the trial court s decision.                      Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) Regulations:  In February
2007, bipartisan legislation was introduced in the United States Senate and House of Representatives that, if enacted, would grant the FDA broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture and marketing of tobacco products and disclosures of
related information. This legislation would also grant the FDA the authority to impose certain recordkeeping and reporting obligations to address counterfeit and contraband tobacco products and would impose fees to pay for the cost of regulation and
other matters. ALG and PM USA support this legislation. In August 2007, the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee approved a revised version of this legislation. Whether Congress will grant the FDA broad authority over tobacco
products, and the precise nature of that authority if granted, cannot be predicted.                      Tobacco Quota Buy-Out:  In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the
federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out is approximately $9.5 billion and is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and importers of each
kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments will offset already scheduled payments to the National Tobacco Grower
Settlement Trust (the  NTGST ), a trust fund established in 1999 by four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. Manufacturers and importers of tobacco products are also
obligated to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government may incur on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. PM USA has paid $138 million for its share of the tobacco pool
stock losses. For a discussion of the NTGST, see Note 19. The quota buy-out did not have a material adverse impact on the Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results in 2007 and Altria Group, Inc. does not anticipate that the quota buyout will
have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2008 and beyond.                      The WHO s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control ( FCTC ):  The FCTC entered into force on February 27, 2005. As of January 2008, 152 countries, as well
as the European Community, have become parties to the FCTC. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and
encouraging cessation. The treaty recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would, among other things:         

establish specific actions to prevent youth smoking;            

restrict and/or eliminate all tobacco product advertising, marketing, promotions and sponsorships;            

initiate public education campaigns to inform the public about the health consequences of smoking and the benefits of quitting;            

implement regulations imposing product testing, disclosure and performance standards;            

impose health warning requirements on packaging;            

adopt measures that would eliminate cigarette smuggling and counterfeit cigarettes;            

restrict smoking in public places;            

implement fiscal policies (tax and price increases);            

adopt and implement measures that ensure that descriptive terms do not create the false impression that one brand of cigarettes is safer than another;

phase out duty-free tobacco sales; and            

encourage litigation against tobacco product manufacturers.               In addition, some of the proposals currently under consideration by the Conference of the Parties, the governing body of the
FCTC, could have the potential to substantially restrict the ability of our tobacco subsidiaries to manufacture and market their products. It is not possible to predict the outcome of regulations under consideration.                      Ingredient Laws:
 Jurisdictions inside and outside the United States have enacted or proposed legislation or regulations that would require tobacco product manufacturers to disclose to the government and, in some instances, publicly the ingredients used in the
manufacture of tobacco products and, in certain cases, to provide toxicological information. In some jurisdictions, governments have prohibited the use of certain ingredients, and proposals have been discussed to further prohibit or limit the use of
ingredients and flavors. Under an EU tobacco product directive, tobacco companies are now required to disclose ingredients and toxicological information to each Member State. In May 2007, the Commission published guidelines for full by-brand
reporting requirements. PMI has made ingredient disclosures in compliance with the laws of all Member States, and has followed the guidelines in most Member States, making full by-brand disclosures in a manner that protects trade secrets in those
Member States.                      Laws Addressing Flavor Varieties or Characterizing Flavors:  In certain U.S. states, legislation has been proposed which would prohibit the sale of certain flavor varieties of tobacco products
or tobacco products with characterizing flavors. The proposed legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products subject to prohibition, the conditions under which the sale of such products would be prohibited, and exceptions to the
prohibitions. To date, Maine is the only state in which such a prohibition has been enacted, but its provisions affecting cigarette and cigar products do not take effect until July 1, 2009, and covered products also may be granted exemptions

29   

Exhibit 13          
  
 under that state s law. Whether other states will enact legislation in this area, and the precise nature of such legislation if enacted, cannot be
predicted.                      Restrictions and Bans on the Use of Ingredients:  Some governments have prohibited the use of certain ingredients and propose further prohibitions or limits. For example, the Conference of the
Parties is considering guidelines providing detailed product regulation requirements that are likely to include standards for the use of tobacco product ingredients, including flavorings. PM USA and PMI support regulations requiring all
manufacturers to determine that the use of ingredients does not increase the inherent toxicity in cigarette smoke.                      Bans and Restrictions on Advertising, Marketing, Promotions and Sponsorships:  For many years, countries
have imposed partial or total bans on tobacco advertising, marketing and promotion. The FCTC calls for a  comprehensive ban on advertising, promotion and sponsorship  and requires governments that have no constitutional constraints to ban
all forms of advertising. Where constitutional constraints exist, the FCTC requires governments to restrict or ban radio, television, print media, other media, including the internet, and sponsorships of international events within 5 years. The FCTC
also requires disclosure of expenditures on advertising, promotion and sponsorship that are not prohibited. Some public health groups have called for bans of product displays, which some countries have adopted, and for generic packaging. PM USA and
PMI oppose complete bans on advertising, but support limitations on marketing, provided that the limitations are within constitutional constraints and manufacturers are able to communicate appropriately with adult smokers.                      Health Warning Requirements:
 Many countries require substantial health warnings on tobacco product packs. In the EU, for example, health warnings must cover 30% of the front and 40% of the back of cigarette packs. The FCTC requires health warnings that cover, at a minimum,
30% of the front and back of the pack. However, the treaty recommends warnings covering 50% of the front and back of the pack. PM USA and PMI support health warning requirements and defer to the governments on the content of the warnings. In
countries where health warnings are not required, PMI places them on packaging voluntarily in the official language or languages of the country. For example, PMI is voluntarily placing health warnings in many African countries in official local
languages and occupying 30% of the front and back of the pack. PM USA and PMI do not support warning sizes that deprive them of the ability to use their distinctive trademarks and pack designs which differentiate their products from those of their
competitors.                      Health Effects of Smoking and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ( ETS ):  Reports with respect to the health effects of cigarette smoking have been publicized for many years,
including in a June 2006 United States Surgeon General report on ETS entitled  The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke.  Many countries have restricted smoking in public places. The pace and scope of public smoking
bans has increased significantly, particularly in the EU, where Italy, Ireland, the UK, France, Finland and Sweden have banned virtually all indoor public smoking. Other countries around the world have adopted or are likely to adopt substantial
public smoking restrictions. Some public health groups have called for, and some municipalities have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, and some tobacco control groups have advocated banning smoking in cars with minors in them.
The FCTC requires parties to the treaty to adopt restrictions on public smoking, and the Conference of Parties has proposed guidelines on regulations which are based on the premise that any exposure to ETS is harmful and call for total bans in all
indoor public places, defines  indoor  broadly, and rejects any exemptions based on type of venue (e.g., nightclubs). On private place smoking, such as cars and homes, the guidelines call for increased education on the risk of exposure to
ETS.            It is not possible to predict the results of ongoing
scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure. Although most regulation of ETS exposure to date has been done at the local level through bans in public establishments, the State of
California is in the process of regulating ETS exposure in the ambient air at the state level. In January 2006, the California Air Resources Board ( CARB ) listed ETS as a toxic air contaminant under state law. CARB is now required to
consider the adoption of appropriate control measures utilizing  best available control technology  in order to reduce public exposure to ETS in outdoor air to the  lowest level achievable.  In addition, in June 2006, the
California Office of Environmental Health Hazard Assessment ( OEHHA ) listed ETS as a contaminant known to the State of California to cause reproductive toxicity. Consequently, under California Proposition 65, businesses employing 10 or
more persons must post warning signs in certain areas stating that ETS is known to the State of California to be a reproductive toxicant.            It is the policy of PM USA and PMI to support a single, consistent public health message on the health effects of cigarette smoking in the development of
diseases in smokers, smoking and addiction, and on exposure to ETS. It is also their policy to defer to the judgment of public health authorities as to the content of warnings in advertisements and on product packaging regarding the health effects
of smoking, addiction and exposure to ETS.                PM USA and
PMI each have established websites that include, among other things, the views of public health authorities on smoking, disease causation in smokers, addiction and ETS. These sites reflect PM USA s and PMI s agreement with the medical and
scientific consensus that cigarette smoking is addictive, and causes lung cancer, heart disease, emphysema and other serious diseases in smokers. The websites advise smokers, and those considering smoking, to rely on the messages of public health
authorities in making all smoking-related decisions. The website addresses are www.philipmorrisusa.com and www.pmintl.com. The information on PM USA s and PMI s websites is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this document or
incorporated into any filings ALG makes with the Securities and Exchange Commission.                      Testing and Reporting of Other Smoke Constituents:  In addition to tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, public health authorities have classified between 45 and 70 other smoke
constituents as potential causes of tobacco-related diseases. Several countries require manufacturers to provide by-brand yields of these constituents. The FCTC requires signatory nations to adopt and implement guidelines for  testing and
measuring the contents and emissions of tobacco products.  PM USA and PMI measure most of these constituents for their product research and development purposes, and support such regulation. However, the capacity to conduct by-brand testing on
a global basis does not exist today, and the cost of by-brand annual testing would be significant.                      Ceilings on Tar, Nicotine, Carbon Monoxide and Other Smoke   Constituents:  A number of countries and the EU have established maximum yields of
tar, nicotine and/or carbon monoxide, as measured by the ISO standard test method. As discussed above, public health authorities have questioned whether reducing machine-measured tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields results in meaningful
reductions in risk. Further, some  
       
   30   

Exhibit 13          
  
 public health groups have questioned the appropriateness of imposing nicotine ceilings per cigarette.            To date, no country has proposed or adopted ceilings for other smoke
constituents. However, in June 2007, the panel advising the Conference of the Parties issued a report that recommends limiting specific smoke constituents. The advisory panel stated that ceilings do not have to be based on proof of benefit, but only
on a showing that  the substance be known to be harmful and that processes exist for its diminution or removal.  The advisory panel proposed ceilings on tobacco specific nitrosamines, or TSNA, smoke constituents unique to tobacco, based on
data showing that there is a wide variation in TSNA yields across brands. The advisory panel stated that the levels of the TSNAs are  higher in air-cured/processed Burley tobacco than in flue-cured bright tobacco  and that levels of TSNAs
are much lower in markets where the predominant brands are Virginia cigarettes, such as Australia and Canada, as opposed to markets, such as the EU, where American blended cigarettes are predominantly sold. The recommended ceilings are  the
lower of the median values for a sample of international brands or the median for the brands for the country implementing the regulation.  Subsequently, members of the panel recommended that ceilings be established for seven additional smoke
constituents, also based on the median in the market. It is not possible to predict whether or when this recommendation will be endorsed by the Conference of the Parties and, if so, implemented by governments.                      Reduced Cigarette Ignition
Propensity Legislation:  Legislation or regulation requiring cigarettes to meet reduced ignition propensity standards is being considered in many states, at the federal and local levels and in jurisdictions outside the United States. New York
State implemented ignition propensity standards in June 2004. To date, the same standards have been enacted by twenty-one other states, effective as follows: Vermont (May 2006), California (January 2007), Oregon (April 2007), New Hampshire (October
2007), Illinois (January 2008), Maine (January 2008), Massachusetts (January 2008), Kentucky (April 2008), Montana (May 2008), Alaska (August 2008), New Jersey (June 2008), Maryland (July 2008), Utah (July 2008), Connecticut (July 2008), Rhode
Island (August 2008), Delaware (January 2009), Iowa (January 2009), Minnesota (January 2009), Texas (January 2009), Louisiana (August 2009) and North Carolina (January 2010). Similar legislation has been enacted in Canada and is being considered in
several other countries, notably Australia and several Member States of the EU. In late 2007, the European Commission began an official process through the General Product Safety Directive to adopt reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards
such as those implemented in New York, Canada and other jurisdictions. PM USA supports the enactment of federal legislation mandating a uniform and technically feasible national standard for reduced ignition propensity cigarettes that would preempt
state standards and apply to all cigarettes sold in the United States. Although PM USA believes that a national standard is the most appropriate way to address the issue, it has been actively supporting the adoption of laws at the state level that
require all manufacturers to comply with the standard first adopted in New York. PMI believes that reduced ignition propensity standards should be the same as those applied in New York and other jurisdictions to ensure that they are uniform and
technically feasible, and that they are applied equally to all manufacturers and all tobacco products.                      Illicit Trade:  Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products are being
considered by a number of jurisdictions. Article 15 of the FCTC requires parties to the treaty to take steps to eliminate all forms of illicit trade, including counterfeiting, and states that national, regional and global agreements on this issue
are  essential components of tobacco control.  The Conference of the Parties has announced that it is working on a protocol on illicit trade to be negotiated in 2008 and proposed in 2009. According to a draft template, topics that the
protocol will address include:         

licensing schemes for participants in the tobacco business, measures to eliminate money laundering and the development of an international system that enables the
tracking and tracing of tobacco products;            

the implementation of laws governing record keeping and internet sales of tobacco products;            

the criminalization of participation in illicit trade in various forms;            

obligations for tobacco manufacturers to control their supply chain with penalties for those that fail to do so;            

programs to increase the capacity of law enforcement bodies; and          

programs to increase cooperation and technical assistance with respect to investigation and prosecutions and the sharing of information.
                  PM USA and PMI support strict
regulations and enforcement measures to prevent all forms of illicit trade in tobacco products. They agree that manufacturers should implement monitoring systems of their sales and distribution practices, and that where appropriately confirmed,
manufacturers should stop supplying vendors who have knowingly engaged in illicit trade. For example, PM USA is engaged in a number of initiatives to help prevent contraband trade in cigarettes, including: enforcement of PM USA wholesale and retail
trade policies on trade in contraband cigarettes and Internet/remote sales; engagement with and support of law enforcement and regulatory agencies; litigation to protect the Company s trademarks; and support for federal and state legislation.
PM USA s legislative initiatives to address contraband trade in cigarettes are designed to better control and protect the legitimate channels of distribution, impose more stringent penalties for the violation of laws and provide additional
tools for law enforcement. While PMI believes the best approach is for all these measures to be adopted through legislation, it is also working with a number of governments around the world on specific agreements and memoranda of understanding to
address the illegal trade in cigarettes. PMI has entered into agreements with several countries, including China, Senegal, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, and, as described below, the EU.                      PMI Cooperation Agreements to Combat Illicit Trade of Cigarettes:  PMI has
entered into agreements with several governments to combat the illicit trade of cigarettes and may continue to do so. In July 2004, PMI entered into an agreement with the European Commission (acting on behalf of the European Community) and 10 Member
States of the EU that provides for broad cooperation with European law enforcement agencies on anti-contraband and anti-counterfeit efforts. To date, 26 of the 27 Member States have signed the agreement. The agreement resolves all disputes between
the European Community and the Member States that signed the agreement, on the one hand, and PMI and certain affiliates, on the other hand, relating to these issues. Under the terms of the agreement, PMI will make 13 payments over 12 years. In the
second quarter of 2004, PMI         
   31   

Exhibit 13          
  
 recorded a pre-tax charge of $250 million for the initial payment. The agreement calls for payments of approximately $150 million on the first anniversary of
the agreement (this payment was made in July 2005), approximately $100 million on the second anniversary (this payment was made in July 2006), and approximately $75 million each year thereafter for 10 years, each of which is to be adjusted based on
certain variables, including PMI s market share in the EU in the year preceding payment. PMI will record these payments as an expense in cost of sales when product is shipped. PMI is also responsible to pay the excise taxes, VAT and customs
duties on qualifying product seizures of up to 90 million cigarettes and is subject to payments of five times the applicable taxes and duties if product seizures exceed 90 million cigarettes in a given year. To date, PMI s payments
related to product seizures have been immaterial.                      State Settlement Agreements:  As discussed in Note 19, during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic tobacco product manufacturers entered into agreements with states and various United
States jurisdictions settling asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. These settlements require PM USA to make substantial annual payments. The settlements also place numerous restrictions on PM USA s business
operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes. Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand advertising; payments for product placement; and free sampling (except in adult-only
facilities). Restrictions are also placed on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products. The State Settlement Agreements also place prohibitions on targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters. In addition, the State
Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities; mandate public disclosure of certain industry documents; limit the
industry s ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations.                      Other Legislation or
Governmental Initiatives:  Legislative and regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered in a number of countries and jurisdictions. In 2001, the EU adopted a directive on tobacco product
regulation requiring EU Member States to implement regulations that reduce maximum permitted levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields; require manufacturers to disclose ingredients and toxicological data; and require cigarette packs to
carry health warnings covering no less than 30% of the front panel and no less than 40% of the back panel. The directive also gives Member States the option of introducing graphic warnings as of 2005; requires tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide data
to cover at least 10% of the side panel; and prohibits the use of texts, names, trademarks and figurative or other signs suggesting that a particular tobacco product is less harmful than others. All 27 EU Member States have implemented the
directive.            The European Commission has issued guidelines for
optional graphic warnings on cigarette packaging that Member States may apply as of 2005. Graphic warning requirements have also been proposed or adopted in a number of other jurisdictions. In 2003, the EU adopted a directive prohibiting radio,
press and Internet tobacco marketing and advertising, which has now been implemented in most EU Member States. Tobacco control legislation addressing the manufacture, marketing and sale of tobacco products has been proposed or adopted in numerous
other jurisdictions.            In the United States in recent years,
various members of federal and state governments have introduced legislation that would subject cigarettes and other tobacco products to various regulations; restrict or eliminate the use of descriptors for cigarettes such as  lights  or
 ultra lights;  establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco consumption or tobacco control programs, or provide additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; further restrict the advertising of cigarettes and
other tobacco products; require additional warnings, including graphic warnings, on packages and in advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products; eliminate or reduce the tax deductibility of tobacco product advertising; provide that the
Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and the Smoking Education Act not be used as a defense against liability under state statutory or common law; allow state and local governments to restrict the use of flavors in tobacco products; and
allow state and local governments to restrict the sale and distribution of tobacco products.            It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented relating to the manufacturing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products,
or the tobacco industry generally. It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented in the United States and in other countries and jurisdictions that might materially affect the
business, volume, results of operations and cash flows of our tobacco subsidiaries, and ultimately their parent, ALG.                      Governmental Investigations:  From time to time, ALG and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental
investigations on a range of matters. In this regard, ALG believes that Canadian authorities are contemplating a legal proceeding based on an investigation of ALG entities relating to allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes into Canada in
the early to mid-1990s. ALG and its subsidiaries cannot predict the outcome of this investigation or whether additional investigations may be commenced.             Manufacturing Optimization Program             In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for
non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to re-source its production, PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for
the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57 billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe by October 2008, and PM USA will close its Cabarrus
manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.            As a result of this
program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated depreciation of $143 million, employee separation costs of $353 million and other charges of $174 million,
primarily related to the relocation of employees and equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax
charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated with the program. The pre-tax implementation
costs primarily related to accelerated depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately $140 million are expected during 2008 for
the program. In addition,  
       
   32   

Exhibit 13          
  
 the program will entail capital expenditures of approximately $230 million at PM USA and $50 million at PMI.            The program is expected to generate pre-tax cost savings beginning in 2008,
with total estimated annual cost savings of approximately $335 million by 2011, of which $179 million will be realized by PMI (by 2009) and $156 million by PM USA (by 2011).             Philip Morris International Asset Impairment and Exit Costs             During 2007, 2006 and 2005, PMI announced plans for the streamlining of various administrative functions and operations. These plans
resulted in the announced closure or partial closure of 9 production facilities through December 31, 2007, the largest of which was the closure of a factory in Munich, Germany announced in 2006. As a result of these announcements, PMI recorded
pre-tax charges of $195 million, $126 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 pre-tax charges primarily related to severance costs. The 2006 pre-tax charges included $57 million of
costs related to PMI s Munich, Germany factory closure. The 2005 pre-tax charges primarily related to the write-off of obsolete equipment, severance benefits and impairment charges associated with the closure of a factory in the Czech Republic,
and the streamlining of various operations. Pre-tax charges, primarily related to severance, of approximately $65 million related to these previously announced plans are expected during 2008.            In 2007, asset impairment and exit costs also included general corporate
pre-tax charges of $13 million related to fees associated with the PMI spin-off.            Cash payments related to exit costs at PMI were $131 million, $44 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future cash payments for exit costs incurred to date
are expected to be approximately $170 million.            The
streamlining of these various functions and operations is expected to result in the elimination of approximately 3,400 positions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 2,400 of these positions have been eliminated. These actions generated pre-tax
cost savings beginning in 2005, with cumulative estimated annual cost savings of approximately $185 million through December 31, 2007, of which $130 million are incremental savings in 2007. Cumulative estimated annual cost savings of
approximately $329 million are expected by the end of 2008.             Acquisitions
            As discussed in Note 5.  Acquisitions , to the consolidated financial
statements, the following acquisitions occurred during 2007, 2006 and 2005.            On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA s adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash.
The acquisition was financed with existing cash. John Middleton, Inc. s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts
of which were insignificant, have been included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated operating results.            In November 2007, PMI acquired an additional 30% stake in its Mexican tobacco business from Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. ( Grupo Carso ), which
increased PMI s ownership interest to 80%, for $1.1 billion. After this transaction was completed, Grupo Carso retained a 20% stake in the business. PMI also entered into an agreement with Grupo Carso which provides the basis for PMI to
potentially acquire, or for Grupo Carso to potentially sell to PMI, Grupo Carso s remaining 20% in the future. The effect of this acquisition was not material to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations
or operating cash flows in 2007.            During the first quarter of
2007, PMI acquired an additional 50.2% stake in a Pakistan cigarette manufacturer, Lakson Tobacco Company Limited ( Lakson Tobacco ), and completed a mandatory tender offer for the remaining shares, which increased PMI s total
ownership interest in Lakson Tobacco from 40% to approximately 98%, for $388 million. The effect of this acquisition was not material to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations or operating cash flows in
2007.                In November 2006, a subsidiary of PMI exchanged
its 47.5% interest in E. Le n Jimenes, C. por. A. ( ELJ ), which included a 40% indirect interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary, Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, C. por. A., for 100% ownership of ELJ s cigarette subsidiary,
Industria de Tabaco Le n Jimenes, S.A. ( ITLJ ) and $427 million of cash, which was contributed to ITLJ prior to the transaction. As a result of the transaction, PMI now owns 100% of the cigarette business and no longer holds an
interest in ELJ s beer business. The exchange of PMI s interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary resulted in a pre-tax gain on sale of $488 million, which increased Altria Group, Inc. s 2006 net earnings by $0.15 per diluted share. The
operating results of ELJ s cigarette subsidiary for the year ended December 31, 2007 and from November 2006 to December 31, 2006, the amounts of which were not material, were included in Altria Group, Inc. s operating results in
the respective years.            In the fourth quarter of 2006, PMI
purchased from British American Tobacco the  Muratti  and  Ambassador  trademarks in certain markets, as well as the rights to  L M  and  Chesterfield  in Hong Kong, in exchange for the rights to  Benson   Hedges
 in certain African markets and a payment of $115 million.            In 2005 PMI acquired 98% of the outstanding shares of Sampoerna, an Indonesian tobacco company, for a cost of $4.8 billion, and a 98% stake in Coltabaco, the largest tobacco company in Colombia, for a cost of $300 million.             Other        
     In December 2005, PMI reached agreements with the China National Tobacco Corporation ( CNTC ) on the licensed production of  Marlboro  in
the People s Republic of China and the establishment of an international joint venture. PMI and CNTC each hold 50% of the shares of the joint venture company, which is based in Lausanne, Switzerland. The joint venture company will support the
commercialization and distribution of a portfolio of Chinese heritage brands in international markets, expand the export of tobacco products and packaging materials from China, and explore other business development opportunities. While PMI views
these agreements as important strategic milestones, PMI does not expect them to have a significant impact on its financial results for some time.         
   33   

Exhibit 13          
    Operating Results          
          2007 compared with 2006            The following discussion compares tobacco operating results for 2007 with 2006.   
                  U.S. tobacco:  Net
revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $11 million (0.1%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $176 million (1.2%) to $15.0 billion, due primarily to lower wholesale promotional allowance rates ($1.1
billion), partially offset by lower volume ($906 million).            Operating companies income decreased $294 million (6.1%), due primarily to lower volume ($608 million) and higher pre-tax charges in 2007 for asset impairment, exit and implementation costs related to the announced closing of the Cabarrus,
North Carolina cigarette manufacturing facility ($361 million), partially offset by lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, net of higher ongoing resolution costs ($329 million) and lower marketing, administration and research costs ($311
million, net of a $26 million provision for the  Scott  case in Louisiana in 2007).            Marketing, administration and research costs include PM USA s cost of administering and litigating product liability claims. Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, as more fully discussed
in Note 19. Principal among these factors are the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and
tactics. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, product liability defense costs were $200 million, $195 million and $258 million, respectively. The factors that have influenced past product liability defense costs are expected to
continue to influence future costs. PM USA does not expect that product liability defense costs will increase significantly in the future.            PM USA s shipment volume was 175.1 billion units, a decrease of 4.6% or 8.3 billion units, but was estimated to be down approximately 3.6% when
adjusted for changes in trade inventories and calendar differences. For the full year 2007, PM USA estimates a decline of about 4% in total cigarette industry volume. In the premium segment, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 4.3%.  Marlboro
 shipment volume decreased 5.9 billion units (3.9%) to 144.4 billion units. In the discount segment, PM USA s shipment volume also decreased, with  Basic  shipment volume down 8.8% to 13.2 billion units. PM USA estimates that
cigarette consumption in 2008 may decline by 2.5% to 3.0%.            The
following table summarizes PM USA s cigarette volume performance by brand for 2007 and 2006:         
              The following
table summarizes PM USA s retail share performance, based on data from the IRI/Capstone Total Retail Panel, which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. This
panel was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including Internet and direct mail:         
          Effective
September 10, 2007, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowances on  Marlboro ,  Parliament  and  Basic  by $0.50 per carton, from $4.00 to $3.50, and  Virginia Slims  by $2.00 per carton, from $4.00 to $2.00. In
addition, PM USA raised the price on its other brands by $2.50 per thousand cigarettes or $0.50 per carton effective September 10, 2007 and by $9.95 per thousand cigarettes or $1.99 per carton effective February 12, 2007.            Effective December 18, 2006, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional
allowance on its Focus on Four brands by $1.00 per carton, from $5.00 to $4.00, and increased the price of its other brands by $1.00 per carton.            Effective December 19, 2005, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on its Focus on Four brands by $0.50 per carton, from $5.50 to $5.00.
In addition, effective December 27, 2005, PM USA increased the price of its other brands by $2.50 per thousand cigarettes or $0.50 per carton.            PM USA anticipates that U.S. industry volume will decline by approximately 2.5% to 3.0% annually over the next few years. PM USA cannot predict the
relative sizes of the premium and discount segments or its shipment or retail market share. PM USA believes that its results may be materially adversely affected by the items discussed under the caption  Tobacco   Business Environment .
                     European Union:
 Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $2.9 billion (12.3%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $920 million (11.7%) to $8.8 billion, due primarily to favorable currency ($748 million) and price
increases ($374 million), partially offset by lower volume/mix ($202 million).            Operating companies income increased $657 million (18.7%), due primarily to favorable currency ($417 million), price increases, net of higher costs ($363 million), lower marketing, administration and research costs
($75 million) and the Italian antitrust charge in 2006 ($61 million), partially offset by lower volume/mix ($201 million), higher pre-tax charges for asset  
       
   34   

Exhibit 13          
  
 impairment and exit costs ($33 million) and higher fixed manufacturing costs ($23 million).            In the European Union, PMI s cigarette shipment volume decreased 0.7%, due primarily to declines in Germany and Poland,
and unfavorable distributor inventory movements in France, partially offset by gains in Hungary, the Baltic States, and the impact of favorable inventory movements in Italy. PMI s cigarette market share in the European Union was 39.3%, down 0.1
share point from 2006, due primarily to trade inventory distortions in the Czech Republic. Absent these distortions, market share in the European Union was flat.            In France, PMI s shipment volume decreased 4.8%, due primarily to a lower market due to higher pricing. PMI s
market share decreased 0.3 share points to 42.4%, due primarily to declines in  Marlboro , reflecting the temporary adverse impact of crossing the  5.00 per pack threshold. In the mid-price segment, the  Philip Morris  brand grew
market share.            In Germany, PMI s cigarette shipment volume
declined 4.6%. The total cigarette market in Germany declined 4.0%, due mainly to the tax-driven price increase in October 2006. PMI s cigarette market share declined 0.4 share points to 36.5%, due to lower  Marlboro  share, partially
offset by share gains for  L M .            In Italy, the total
cigarette market was down 1.1%. PMI s cigarette shipment volume increased 2.9%, due primarily to the favorable timing of shipments, and its market share in Italy increased 0.8 share points to 54.6%, driven by  Chesterfield  and
 Merit .            In Poland, the total cigarette market declined
3.5%, due to consumer price sensitivity within the low-price segment following significant tax-driven price increases, as consumers switched to other tobacco products. PMI s shipment volume was down 6.0% and market share decreased 1.0 share
point to 39.0%, primarily reflecting share declines for PMI s low-price and local 70mm brands. However,  Marlboro  market share rose 0.4 share points to 8.5%.       
     In Spain, the total cigarette market declined 1.2%. PMI s shipment volume increased 0.7%, due mainly to the favorable timing of
shipments. PMI s market share declined 0.2 share points to 32.1%, primarily reflecting declines in  Marlboro,  partially offset by gains for  Chesterfield ,  L M  and the  Philip Morris  brand.                      Eastern Europe, Middle East and
Africa:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $2.2 billion (21.8%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $741 million (13.2%) to $6.3 billion, due primarily to favorable currency ($321 million),
price increases ($246 million) and higher volume/mix ($174 million).            Operating companies income increased $362 million (17.5%), due primarily to price increases and lower costs ($285 million), higher volume/mix ($95 million) and favorable currency ($90 million), partially offset by higher marketing,
administration and research costs ($80 million), higher fixed manufacturing costs ($18 million) and higher pre-tax charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($10 million).            In Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, shipment volume increased 0.9%, driven by gains in Algeria, Bulgaria, Egypt and
Ukraine, partially offset by declines in Romania, Russia, Serbia and Turkey.            In Egypt, improved economic conditions and increased tourism continued to fuel the growth of the total cigarette industry and premium brands. PMI s shipments rose 25.6% and share advanced 1.9 points to 12.0%,
driven by  Marlboro ,  L M  and  Merit .            In
Russia, shipments were down 2.0%, due largely to  L M.  This decline was partially offset by continued growth of higher-margin brands, including  Marlboro ,  Parliament ,  Chesterfield  and  Muratti.  PMI s market
share was unchanged at 26.6%. In September 2007, PMI replaced the entire  L M  brand family with a completely new, smoother tasting product line-up in response to changing adult consumer preferences.            In Turkey, shipments declined 1.6% and market share declined 2.1 share points
to 40.4%, due primarily to a volume decline of the lower-margin brands in PMI s portfolio.            In Ukraine, shipments grew 4.7% and share rose 0.8 share points to 33.9%, driven by consumer up-trading to premium brands, particularly  Marlboro,
Parliament  and  Chesterfield .            In Algeria, shipments
increased, driven by an expanded distribution network.            In
Bulgaria, shipments increased, driven by PMI s market entry in July 2006 as well as higher sales of  Marlboro  following price repositioning, and portfolio expansion following the lifting of import duties in January 2007.            In Romania, shipments were down 9.6%, due primarily to a lower total market
and lower market share. PMI s volume decline was driven by declines in  L M , partially offset by gains in  Marlboro  and  Parliament .         
            Asia:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $957 million (9.4%).
Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $108 million (1.9%) to $5.6 billion, due primarily to price increases ($146 million), the Lakson Tobacco acquisition ($118 million) and favorable currency ($75 million), partially offset by lower
volume/mix ($231 million).            Operating companies income
decreased $67 million (3.6%), due primarily to lower volume/mix ($179 million), higher marketing, administration and research costs ($70 million, including $30 million for a distributor termination in Indonesia), unfavorable currency ($36 million)
and higher pre-tax charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($9 million), partially offset by price increases and lower costs ($171 million), lower fixed manufacturing costs ($44 million) and the Lakson Tobacco acquisition ($12 million).
           In Asia, shipment volume increased 8.8%, due to the Lakson
Tobacco acquisition in Pakistan. Excluding this acquisition, volume in Asia was down 3.2%, due primarily to the negative impact of inventory movements and lower shipments in Japan, partially offset by gains in Indonesia and Korea.            In Japan, the total cigarette market declined 4.8%, driven by the
July 1, 2006 tax-driven price increase. Market share in Japan decreased 0.4 share points to 24.3%, due mainly to  Lark . PMI s shipments were down 12.6%, reflecting lower in-market sales and a reduction in distributor inventory
durations at the end of 2007.            In Indonesia, the total
cigarette market increased 3.9%. PMI s market share decreased 0.3 share points to 28.0%, reflecting the share decline of  A Mild  and  Dji Sam Soe , due to a temporary stick-price disadvantage versus competitor brands, partially
offset by the growth of  Marlboro , which gained 0.4 share points to 4.0%. PMI shipment volume rose 2.8%, driven by the July 2007 launch of  Marlboro  kretek.       
     In Korea, the total market increased 4.6%. PMI s shipments increased 20.3%, due primarily to the performance of  Marlboro ,
 Parliament  and  Virginia Slims , driven by new line extensions, including  Marlboro Filter Plus . Market share in Korea increased 1.3 share points to 9.9% with  Marlboro  market share up 0.8 share points to 4.2%.                      Latin America:  Net
revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $772 million (17.6%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues  
       
   35   

Exhibit 13          
  
 increased $235 million (13.4%) to $2.0 billion, due primarily to price increases ($130 million), the impact of acquisitions ($51 million), favorable
currency ($34 million) and favorable volume/mix ($20 million).            Operating companies income decreased $488 million (48.4%), due primarily to the gain in 2006 from the divestiture of the Dominican Republic beer business ($488 million), the impact of divestitures ($51 million), higher marketing,
administration and research costs ($18 million), and higher pre-tax charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($17 million), partially offset by price increases, net of higher costs ($87 million).            In Latin America, shipment volume increased 0.8%, driven by gains in
Argentina, partially offset by declines in Mexico and the Dominican Republic.            In Argentina, the total cigarette market was up 3.0%, while PMI shipments grew 7.1% and share was up 2.6 share points to 68.9%, driven by  Marlboro  and the  Philip Morris  brand.            In Mexico, the total market declined 6.3%, due to lower consumption following
the price increases in January and October 2007, as well as an unfavorable comparison with the prior year, which included trade purchases in advance of the January 2007 tax-driven price increase. PMI shipments declined 2.1%, reflecting the decline
in the overall market. However, PMI s market share rose 0.8 share points to 64.3%, driven by  Benson   Hedges  and  Delicados .            In the Dominican Republic, shipment volume declined 20.2%, reflecting a lower total market following price increases in January and February 2007 to
partially compensate for a very significant excise tax increase imposed on cigarettes in January 2007.            2006 compared with 2005            The following discussion compares tobacco operating results for 2006 with 2005.                      U.S. tobacco:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $340 million
(1.9%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $382 million (2.6%) to $14.9 billion, due primarily to lower wholesale promotional allowance rates ($604 million), partially offset by lower volume ($239 million).            Operating companies income increased $231 million (5.0%), due primarily to
lower wholesale promotional allowance rates, net of higher ongoing resolution costs ($424 million) and several other items (aggregating $79 million), partially offset by lower volume ($170 million), higher fixed manufacturing costs ($47 million) and
higher marketing, administration and research costs (including spending in 2006 for various excise tax ballot initiatives). The other items reflect a pre-tax provision in 2005 for the  Boeken  individual smoking case ($56 million) and the
previously mentioned 2005 net charges related to tobacco quota buy-out legislation ($23 million).            PM USA s shipment volume was 183.4 billion units, a decrease of 1.1%, but was estimated to be down approximately 1.5% when adjusted for trade
inventory changes and the timing of promotional shipments. In the premium segment, PM USA s shipment volume decreased 0.7%.  Marlboro  shipment volume decreased 0.2 billion units (0.2%) to 150.3 billion units. In the discount segment, PM
USA s shipment volume decreased 6.2%, while  Basic  shipment volume was down 5.0% to 14.5 billion units.            The following table summarizes PM USA s cigarette volume performance by brand for 2006 and 2005:         
          The following table
summarizes PM USA s retail share performance, based on data from the IRI/Capstone Total Retail Panel, which is a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share performance in retail stores selling cigarettes. The panel
was not designed to capture sales through other channels, including Internet or direct mail:         
                    European Union:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $122 million (0.5%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues decreased $609 million (7.2%) to $7.9
billion, due primarily to lower volume/mix ($254 million), net price decreases ($203 million) and unfavorable currency ($152 million).            Operating companies income decreased $418 million (10.6%), due primarily to lower volume/mix ($243 million), price decreases, net of cost savings ($179
million), the Italian antitrust charge ($61 million) and higher pre-tax charges for asset impairment and exit costs ($55 million), partially offset by lower marketing, administration and research costs ($90 million) and lower fixed manufacturing
costs ($29 million).            In the European Union, PMI s
cigarette shipment volume decreased 2.8%. Excluding the inventory sale in Italy, PMI s volume decreased 1.7% in the European Union due largely to declines in Spain, Portugal, Germany and the Czech Republic, partially offset by gains in France,
Hungary and Poland.            In Spain, the total cigarette market was
down 2.9%, due primarily to the impact of excise tax increases and a new tobacco law implemented on January 1, 2006. PMI s shipment volume decreased 12.8%, reflecting increased consumer down-trading to the low-price segment. As a result of
growing price gaps, PMI s market share in Spain declined 2.3 share points to 32.3%. On January 21, 2006, the Spanish government raised excise taxes on cigarettes, which would have resulted in even larger price gaps if the tax increase had
been passed on to consumers. Accordingly, PMI reduced its cigarette prices on January 26, 2006 to restore the competitiveness of its brands. In late February, the Spanish government again raised the level of excise taxes, but also established a
minimum excise tax, following which PMI raised its prices back to prior levels. On November 10, 2006, the Spanish government announced an increase in the minimum excise tax to 70 euros per thousand cigarettes. Effective December 30, 2006,
PMI raised prices on all its brands.         
   36   

Exhibit 13          
   In Portugal, the total cigarette market declined 8.2%, reflecting a tax-driven price increase that
resulted in lower overall consumption and higher consumer cross-border purchases in Spain. PMI s shipment volume decreased 13.0% and market share was down 5.0 share points to 82.0%, due to severe price competition, partially arising from
competitors continuing to sell lower priced product from inventory that was accumulated prior to the tax increase.            In Germany, PMI s total tobacco volume (which includes other tobacco products) increased 0.9%; however, PMI s cigarette volume declined 2.8%.
Total tobacco consumption in Germany was down 5.9% in 2006, reflecting the decline and ultimate exit of tobacco portions from the market. The total cigarette market decreased 4.0%, affected by the September 2005 tax-driven price increase as well as
the sale of illicit cigarettes as reported by the German cigarette manufacturers  association. PMI s cigarette market share increased 0.2 share points to 36.9%, driven by the price repositioning of  L M  in January 2006. During
the fourth quarter of 2005, the European Court of Justice ruled that the German government s favorable tax treatment of tobacco portions was against EU law. Accordingly, tobacco portions manufactured as of April 1, 2006 now incur the same
excise tax as that levied on cigarettes, and as of October 2006, PMI s shipments of tobacco portions ceased.            In the Czech Republic, shipment volume was down 9.7% and market share was lower, reflecting intense price competition.            In Italy, the total cigarette market rose 1.1% versus a low base in 2005,
when it was adversely impacted by the compounding effects of the January 2005 legislation restricting smoking in public places and the December 2004 tax-driven price increase. PMI s shipment volume in Italy decreased 3.9%, reflecting the
one-time inventory sale in 2005. Adjusting for the one-time inventory sale, cigarette shipment volume in Italy increased 1.9%. Market share in Italy increased 1.3 share points to 53.8%, driven by  Marlboro, Diana  and  Chesterfield .
           In Poland, shipment volume was up 6.3% and market share
increased 2.8 share points to 40.0%, driven by  L M  and  Next .            In France, shipment volume increased 7.0%, driven by price stability, moderate price gaps and favorable timing of shipments. Market share increased 1.0 share point to 42.7%, reflecting the strong performance of
 Marlboro  and the  Philip Morris  brand.              
    Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $1.1 billion (12.4%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $563 million (11.2%) to $5.6 billion,
due primarily to price increases ($391 million) and higher volume/mix ($195 million), partially offset by unfavorable currency ($23 million).            Operating companies income increased $430 million (26.3%), due primarily to price increases, net of higher costs ($381 million) and higher volume/mix
($130 million), partially offset by higher marketing, administration and research costs ($85 million).            In Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa, shipment volume increased 1.6%, driven by gains in Russia, Ukraine and Egypt, partially offset by declines in
Romania and Turkey. In Russia, shipments were up 3.4%, driven by  Marlboro ,  Muratti ,  Parliament , and  Chesterfield , while market share was down 0.4 share points to 26.6%, due primarily to declines of low-price brands and
 L M . Higher shipments in Ukraine mainly reflect higher market share, as well as up-trading to higher margin brands. In Romania, shipments declined 15.1% and market share was down 1.8 share points to 32.3%. In Turkey, shipments declined
3.5%, reflecting the continued decline of low-price  Bond Street . However, PMI market share in Turkey rose 1.1 share points to 42.4%, as consumers traded up to its higher margin brands,  Parliament  and  Muratti .                  Asia:  Net revenues, which include excise
taxes billed to customers, increased $1.5 billion (17.8%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $612 million (12.4%) to $5.5 billion, due primarily to the impact of acquisitions ($587 million) and price increases ($197 million),
partially offset by unfavorable currency ($179 million).            Operating companies income increased $76 million (4.2%), due primarily to the impact of acquisitions ($219 million) and price increases ($185 million), partially offset by unfavorable currency ($188 million), lower volume/mix ($81 million)
and higher marketing, administration and research costs ($53 million).            In Asia, shipment volume increased 12.3%, reflecting the acquisition of Sampoerna in Indonesia. Excluding this acquisition, volume in Asia was down 1.0%, due primarily to lower volume in Japan and Thailand. In Japan, the total market
declined 4.4%, driven by the July 1, 2006 price increase. Market share in Japan decreased 0.1 share point to 24.7%. Market share in Indonesia grew 1.9 share points to 28.3%, led by  A Hijau  and  A Mild . In Thailand, a lower total
market reflected a December 2005 excise tax increase.                  Latin America:  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $458 million (11.6%). Excluding excise taxes, net revenues increased $215 million (14.0%) to $1.8 billion, due
primarily to higher volume/mix ($144 million), the impact of acquisitions ($50 million) and favorable currency ($14 million).                Operating companies income increased $545 million (117.7%), due primarily to a pre-tax gain related to the exchange of PMI s interest in a
beer business in the Dominican Republic ($488 million), higher volume/mix ($37 million), price increases ($23 million) and the impact of acquisitions ($13 million), partially offset by higher marketing, administration and research costs ($24
million).            In Latin America, shipment volume increased 10.8%,
driven by strong gains in Argentina and Mexico, as well as higher volume in Colombia due to the 2005 acquisition of Coltabaco. Excluding this acquisition, volume was up 6.3% in Latin America. In Argentina, the total market advanced approximately
7.0%, while PMI shipments grew 15.9% and share was up 4.9 share points, due mainly to the  Philip Morris  brand. In Mexico, the total market was up approximately 2.0% and PMI shipments grew 6.0%. Market share rose 1.4 share points to 63.5%,
reflecting the continued strong performance of  Marlboro  and  Benson   Hedges .             Financial Services              Business
Environment             In 2003, PMCC shifted its strategic focus and is no longer
making new investments but is instead focused on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will
fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, proceeds from asset sales, maturities and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $569 million, $357 million and $476 million, respectively, and gains totaled $326 million,
$132 million and $72 million, respectively, in operating companies income.         
   37   

Exhibit 13          
   Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings
in the allowance for losses related to PMCC s airline exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007.   
        PMCC leases one 750 megawatt ( MW ) natural gas-fired power
plant (located in Pasadena, Texas) to an indirect subsidiary of Calpine Corporation ( Calpine ). Calpine, which has guaranteed the lease, is currently operating under bankruptcy protection. The subsidiary was not included as part of the
bankruptcy filing of Calpine. PMCC does not record income on leases when the lessee or its guarantor is in bankruptcy. At December 31, 2007, PMCC s finance asset balance for this lessee was $60 million. Based on PMCC s assessment of
the prospect for recovery on the Pasadena plant, a portion of the outstanding finance asset balance has been provided for in the allowance for losses. In July 2007, PMCC s interest in two 265 MW natural gas-fired power plants (located in
Tiverton, Rhode Island, and Rumford, Maine), which were part of the bankruptcy filing, were foreclosed upon. These leases were rejected and written off during 2006.            None of PMCC s aircraft lessees are operating under bankruptcy protection at December 31, 2007. One of PMCC s
aircraft lessees, Northwest Airlines, Inc. ( Northwest ), exited bankruptcy on May 31, 2007 and assumed PMCC s leveraged leases for three Airbus A-320 aircraft. PMCC s leases for 19 aircraft with Delta Air Lines, Inc.
( Delta ) were sold in early 2007.            The activity in
the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 was as follows:         
          The net impact to the
allowance for losses in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related primarily to various airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In addition,
PMCC recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged to earnings and written-off in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. As a
result of the $200 million charge in 2005, PMCC s fixed charges coverage ratio did not meet its 1.25:1 requirement under a support agreement with ALG. Accordingly, as required by the support agreement, a support payment of $150 million was made
by ALG to PMCC in September 2005. It is possible that additional adverse developments may require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses. Acceleration of taxes on the foreclosures of leveraged leases written-off amounted to approximately $50
million and $80 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no foreclosures in 2005.            As discussed further in Note 14.  Income Taxes , the IRS has disallowed benefits pertaining to several PMCC leverage lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999.             Operating Results          
          PMCC s net
revenues for 2007 decreased $97 million (30.6%) from 2006, due primarily to lower lease revenues due to lower investment balances, and to lower gains from asset management activity. PMCC s operating companies income for 2007 of $421
million increased $245 million (100.0+%) from 2006, due primarily to cash recoveries in 2007 on aircraft leases previously written down versus an increase to the loss provision in 2006, partially offset by lower revenues.                PMCC s net revenues for 2006 decreased $2 million (0.6%) from
2005, due primarily to lower lease revenues as a result of lower investment balances, partially offset by higher gains from asset sales. PMCC s operating companies income for 2006 of $176 million increased $145 million (100.0+%) from 2005.
Operating companies income for 2006 includes a $103 million increase to the provision for airline industry exposure as discussed above, a decrease of $97 million from the 2005 provision, and higher gains from asset sales.             Financial Review                   Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities, Continuing Operations:  During 2007, net cash
provided by operating activities on a continuing operations basis was $10.2 billion, compared with $9.9 billion during 2006. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to higher earnings from continuing operations (after
excluding the non-cash reversal of income tax reserves in 2006), the return of $1.3 billion of escrow bond deposits in December 2007 related to the  Engle  U.S. tobacco case and lower pension plan contributions, partially offset by the return
in 2006 of approximately $2 billion of escrow bond deposits related to the  Price  U.S. tobacco case and a higher use of cash to fund working capital. The change in working capital was due primarily to higher receivables at PMI from additional
trade purchases in anticipation of 2008 tax-driven price increases in many markets and higher finished goods inventories at PMI in anticipation of further trade purchases prior to excise tax increases.            During 2006, net cash provided by operating activities on a continuing
operations basis was $9.9 billion, compared with $7.6 billion during 2005. The increase in cash provided by operating activities was due primarily to the return of the escrow bond deposit related to the  Price  U.S. tobacco case, lower pension
plan contributions and higher earnings from continuing operations, partially offset by the reimbursement of Kraft s portion of income tax benefits related to the RAR and a higher use of cash to fund working capital. The increase in working
capital reflects PMI s increase in inventories in anticipation of 2007 excise tax-driven increases in many markets.                  Net Cash Used in Investing Activities, Continuing Operations:  One element of PMI s growth strategy is to
strengthen its brand portfolio and/or expand its geographic reach through active programs of selective acquisitions. ALG and PM USA from time to time consider acquisitions as part of their adjacency strategy, as evidenced by ALG s 2007
acquisition of John Middleton, Inc.         
   38   

Exhibit 13          
   During 2007, 2006 and 2005, net cash used in investing activities on a continuing operations basis
was $5.3 billion, $0.5 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively. In 2007, the net cash used primarily reflects the purchases of John Middleton, Inc., and Lakson Tobacco in Pakistan, as well as PMI s increased investment in its Mexican tobacco
business. In 2006, proceeds from sales of businesses of $520 million were primarily from the sale of PMI s interest in a beer business in the Dominican Republic. The net cash used in 2005 reflects the purchase of 98% of the outstanding shares
of Sampoerna.            On December 11, 2007, in conjunction with
PM USA s adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with existing cash. In November 2007, PMI
acquired an additional 30% stake in its Mexican tobacco business from Grupo Carso, which increased PMI s ownership interest to 80%, for $1.1 billion. During the first quarter of 2007, PMI acquired an additional 50.2% stake in a Pakistan
cigarette manufacturer, Lakson Tobacco, and completed a mandatory tender offer for the remaining shares, which increased PMI s total ownership interest in Lakson Tobacco from 40% to approximately 98%, for $388 million.            In November 2006, a subsidiary of PMI exchanged its 47.5% interest in E.
Le n Jimenes, C. por. A. ( ELJ ), which included a 40% indirect interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary, Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, C. por. A., for 100% ownership of ELJ s cigarette subsidiary, Industria de Tabaco
Le n Jimenes, S.A. ( ITLJ ) and $427 million of cash, which was contributed to ITLJ prior to the transaction. As a result of the transaction, PMI now owns 100% of the cigarette business and no longer holds an interest in ELJ s
beer business.            Capital expenditures for 2007 increased 13.5%
to $1.5 billion (of which $1.1 billion related to PMI). The expenditures were primarily for modernization and consolidation of manufacturing facilities, expansion of research and development, and expansion of certain production capacity. Excluding
PMI, 2008 capital expenditures are expected to be slightly below 2007 expenditures, and are expected to be funded by operating cash flows.                  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities, Continuing Operations:  During 2007, 2006 and 2005 net cash used in financing
activities on a continuing operations basis was $3.5 billion, $10.6 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. The decrease of $7.1 billion from 2006 was due primarily to the issuance of debt in 2007 as opposed to the repayment of debt in 2006. The
increase of $9.4 billion from 2005 to 2006 was due primarily to the repayment of short and long-term debt in 2006 ($5.6 billion) and the issuance of debt for the Sampoerna acquisition in 2005 ($4.1 billion).                      Debt and Liquidity:
              Credit Ratings:   At December 31, 2007, ALG s debt
ratings by major credit rating agencies were as follows:         

Short-term    
      
  Long-term    
      
  Outlook     
 
    Moody s   
      
  P-2  
      
  Baa1  
      
  Stable   
 
    Standard   Poor s   
      
  A-2  
      
  BBB  
      
  Stable   
 
    Fitch   
      
  F-2  
      
  BBB+  
      
  Stable   

On January 30,
2008, the major credit rating agencies listed in the table above affirmed ALG s debt ratings following the announcement of the PMI spin-off, and Fitch upgraded ALG s outlook to positive.            ALG s credit quality, measured by 5 year credit default swaps, has
improved dramatically over the past two years with levels that approximate those of Single-A rated issuers.            Moody s expects that, should PMI be spun-off from Altria Group, Inc. as expected, PMI s long-term and short-term ratings could be as high as A2
and Prime-1, respectively. Standard   Poor s believes that the potential corporate credit rating for PMI could be as high as A+ based solely on its business risk assessment. Fitch expects that, should PMI be spun-off from Altria Group,
Inc., PMI s long-term and short-term ratings could be A+ and F1, respectively.              Credit Lines:   ALG and PMI maintain separate revolving credit facilities. ALG intends to use its revolving credit facilities to support the issuance of commercial paper.                As discussed in Note 9.  Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing
Arrangements , the purchase price of the Sampoerna acquisition was primarily financed through euro 4.5 billion of bank credit facilities arranged for PMI and its subsidiaries in May 2005, consisting of a euro 2.5 billion three-year term loan
facility (which, through repayments had been reduced to euro 1.5 billion) and a euro 2.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility. On December 4, 2007, PMI entered into new credit agreements consisting of a $3.0 billion five-year revolving
credit facility, a $1.0 billion three-year revolving credit facility and a euro 1.5 billion 364-day term loan facility. On December 4, 2007, PMI borrowed euro 1.5 billion under the new term loan facility to repay the debt outstanding under its
2005 term loan facility. These facilities, which are not guaranteed by ALG, require PMI to maintain an earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) to interest ratio of not less than 3.5 to 1.0. At
December 31, 2007, PMI s ratio calculated in accordance with the agreements was 44.6 to 1.0.            ALG has a 364-day revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.0 billion, which expires on March 27, 2008. In addition, ALG maintains a multi-year
credit facility in the amount of $4.0 billion, which expires April 15, 2010. The ALG facilities require the maintenance of an earnings to fixed charges ratio, as defined by the agreements, of not less than 2.5 to 1.0. At December 31, 2007,
the ratio calculated in accordance with the agreements was 19.6 to 1.0. After the effectiveness of the spin-off of PMI, ALG s multi-year credit facility will be reduced from $4.0 billion to $3.5 billion and the earnings to fixed charges ratio
will be replaced with a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.0. In addition, the facility will then require the maintenance of a ratio of debt to EBITDA of not more than 2.5 to 1.0. If the PMI spin-off had occurred as of
December 31, 2007, the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense would have been 15.6 to 1.0, and the ratio of debt to EBITDA would have been 0.9 to 1.0. On January 28, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan
agreement to finance a tender offer and consent solicitation expenses related to its outstanding consumer products debt prior to the spin-off of PMI. The agreement contains the same covenants mentioned above, and is required to be prepaid or reduced
by the net amount of any capital markets transactions.            ALG and
PMI expect to continue to meet their respective covenants. These facilities do not include any credit rating triggers or any provisions that could require the posting of collateral. The multi-year facilities enable the respective companies to
reclassify short-term debt on a long-term basis. At December 31, 2007, $2,205 million of short-term borrowings that PMI expects to remain outstanding at December 31, 2008 were reclassified as long-term debt.         
   39   

Exhibit 13          
   At December 31, 2007, credit lines for ALG and PMI, and the related activity, were as follows:
            ALG          
           PMI          
          In addition to the
above, certain international subsidiaries of PMI maintain credit lines to meet their respective working capital needs. These credit lines, which amounted to approximately $2.6 billion are for the sole use of these international businesses.
Borrowings on these lines amounted to approximately $0.6 billion and $0.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.              Debt:   Altria Group, Inc. s total debt (consumer products and financial services) was $11.0 billion and $8.5 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. Total consumer products debt was $10.5 billion and $7.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Total consumer products debt includes PMI s third-party debt of $6.3 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31,
2007 and 2006, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006 (after giving effect to the Kraft spin-off), Altria Group, Inc. s ratio of consumer products debt to total equity was 0.57 and 0.58, respectively. The ratio of total debt to total
equity was 0.60 and 0.67 at December 31, 2007 and 2006 (after giving effect to the Kraft spin-off), respectively. Fixed-rate debt constituted approximately 44% and 65% of total consumer products debt at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. The weighted average interest rate on total consumer products debt, including the impact of swap agreements, was approximately 5.6% and 5.8% at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            At December 31, 2007, ALG had approximately $2.8 billion of capacity
remaining under its existing shelf registration statement.            ALG
does not guarantee the debt of PMI.            On January 31, 2008,
Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiary, Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd. commenced tender offers to purchase for cash $2.6 billion of notes and debentures denominated in U.S. dollars and approximately  1.0 billion in euro-denominated bonds.
Altria Group, Inc. expects to record a charge of approximately $400 million upon completion of the tender offer. In order to finance the tender offer, Altria Group, Inc. has arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day bridge loan. Subsequent to the spin-off,
Altria Group, Inc. intends to access the public debt market to refinance debt incurred in connection with the tender offer.              Taxes:   The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final RAR on
March 15, 2006. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with the RAR, with the exception of certain leasing matters discussed below. Consequently, in March 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded non-cash tax benefits of $1.0 billion, which principally represented
the reversal of tax reserves following the issuance of and agreement with the RAR. Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed $337 million in cash to Kraft for its portion of the $1.0 billion in tax benefits, as well as pre-tax interest of $46 million. The
amounts related to Kraft were reclassified to earnings from discontinued operations. The tax reversal resulted in an increase to earnings from continuing operations of $631 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.                Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with
the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately
$150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific
types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly
applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position
through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should
PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could
have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.                  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate
Contractual Obligations:  Altria Group, Inc. has no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below.              Guarantees:   As discussed in Note 19, at December 31, 2007, Altria Group,
Inc. s third-party guarantees, which are primarily related to excise taxes and divestiture activities, were $72 million, of which $67 million have no specified expiration dates. The remainder expire through 2011, with none expiring during 2008.
Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that a third party fails to make contractual payments or  
       
   40   

Exhibit 13          
  
 achieve performance measures. Altria Group, Inc. has a liability of $22 million on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007, relating to
these guarantees. For the remainder of these guarantees there is no liability on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 as the fair value of these guarantees is insignificant, due to the fact that the probability of future payments
under these guarantees is remote. In the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of ALG have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation. At December 31, 2007, subsidiaries of ALG were also
contingently liable for $3.0 billion of guarantees related to their own performance, consisting of the following:         

$ 2.7 billion of guarantees for excise tax and import duties related primarily to international shipments of tobacco products. In these agreements, financial
institutions provide guarantees of tax payments to the respective government agency. PMI then issues guarantees to the respective financial institutions for the payment of the taxes. These are revolving facilities that are integral to the shipment
of tobacco products in international markets, and the underlying taxes payable are recorded on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet.            

$ 0.3 billion of other guarantees, consisting principally of guarantees of lines of credit for certain PMI subsidiaries.               Although Altria Group, Inc. s guarantees of its own performance are
frequently short-term in nature, they are expected to be replaced, upon expiration, with similar guarantees of similar amounts. These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity.
             Aggregate Contractual Obligations:   The following table
summarizes Altria Group, Inc. s contractual obligations from continuing operations at December 31, 2007:         

(1)  
  Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt, excluding short-term borrowings reclassified as long-term debt. Amounts include capital
lease obligations, primarily associated with the expansion of PMI s vending machines in Japan.           

(2)  
  Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s interest expense on its long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt. Interest on Altria
Group, Inc. s fixed-rate debt is presented using the stated interest rate. Interest on Altria Group, Inc. s variable rate debt is estimated using the rate in effect at December 31, 2007. Amounts exclude the amortization of debt
discounts, the amortization of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest expense in the consolidated statements of earnings.         

(3)  
  Amounts represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases.         

(4)  
  Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, co-manufacturing arrangements, storage and distribution)
are commitments for projected needs to be utilized in the normal course of business. Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, advertising, capital expenditures, information technology and professional services. Arrangements are
considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction. Most arrangements are cancelable without a
significant penalty, and with short notice (usually 30 days). Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are excluded from the table above.           

(5)  
  Other long-term liabilities primarily consist of postretirement health care costs. The following long-term liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from
the table above: accrued pension and post employment costs, income taxes and tax contingencies, minority interest, insurance accruals and other accruals. Altria Group, Inc. is unable to estimate the timing of payments (or contributions in the case
of accrued pension costs) for these items. Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making U.S. pension contributions of approximately $16 million in 2008 and non-U.S. pension contributions of approximately $97 million in 2008, based on current tax
law (as discussed in Note 16.  Benefit Plans ).              The State Settlement Agreements and related legal fee payments, and payments for tobacco growers, as discussed below and in Note 19, are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment for several factors, including
inflation, market share and industry volume. In addition, the international tobacco E.C. agreement payments discussed below are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment based on certain variables including PMI s
market share in the European Union. Litigation escrow deposits, as discussed below and in Note 19, are also excluded from the table above since these deposits will be returned to PM USA should it prevail on appeal.              Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements:   As discussed
previously and in Note 19, PM USA has entered into State Settlement Agreements with the states and territories of the United States and also entered into a trust agreement to provide certain aid to U.S. tobacco growers and quota holders, but PM
USA s obligations under this trust have now been eliminated by the obligations imposed on PM USA by FETRA. During 2004, PMI entered into a cooperation agreement with the European Community. Each of these agreements calls for payments that are
based on variable factors, such as cigarette volume, market shares and inflation. PM USA and PMI account for the cost of these agreements as a component of cost of sales as product is shipped.            As a result of these agreements and the enactment of FETRA, PM USA and PMI
recorded the following amounts in cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
             
   41   

Exhibit 13          
   Based on current agreements and current estimates of volume and market share, the estimated amounts
that PM USA and PMI may charge to cost of sales under these agreements will be approximately as follows:         
          The estimated amounts
charged to cost of sales in each of the years above would generally be paid in the following year. As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of these agreements are subject to adjustment for several factors, including cigarette volume,
inflation and certain contingent events and, in general, are allocated based on each manufacturer s market share. The amounts shown in the table above are estimates, and actual amounts will differ as underlying assumptions differ from actual
future results. See Note 19 for a discussion of proceedings that may result in a downward adjustment of amounts paid under State Settlement Agreements for the years 2003 and 2004.                     Litigation Escrow Deposits:     As discussed in Note 19, in December
2007, $1.2 billion of funds held in an interest-bearing escrow account in connection with obtaining a stay of execution in the  Engle  class action was returned to PM USA. In addition, the $100 million relating to the bonding requirement in the
same case has been discharged. The $1.2 billion escrow account and the deposit of $100 million related to the bonding requirement were included in the December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as other assets. Interest income on the $1.2
billion escrow account, prior to its return to PM USA, was paid to PM USA quarterly and was being recorded as earned in interest and other debt expense, net, in the consolidated statements of earnings.            Also, in June 2006 under the order of the Illinois Supreme Court, the cash
deposits of approximately $2.2 billion related to the  Price  case were returned to PM USA, and PM USA s obligations to deposit further cash payments were terminated.            With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as of December 31, 2007, PM USA has posted various forms
of security totaling approximately $193 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. These cash deposits are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.
           Although litigation is subject to uncertainty and could result
in material adverse consequences for the financial condition, cash flows or results of operations of PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, management believes the litigation environment has substantially
improved and expects cash flow from operations, together with existing credit facilities, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet the ongoing needs of the business.                     Equity and Dividends:     As discussed in Note 1.  Background and
Basis of Presentation , on March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 in a
tax-free distribution. The distribution resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity of $27.4 billion on March 30, 2007.            As discussed in Note 12.  Stock Plans , in January 2007, Altria Group, Inc. issued 1.7 million shares of deferred
stock to eligible U.S.-based and non-U.S. employees. Restrictions on these shares lapse in the first quarter of 2010. The market value per share was $87.36 on the date of grant. Recipients of these Altria Group, Inc. deferred shares did not receive
restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft upon the Kraft spin-off. Rather, they received 0.6 million additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the original award.            At December 31, 2007, the number of shares to be issued upon exercise of
outstanding stock options and vesting of deferred stock was 33.2 million, or 1.6% of shares outstanding.            Dividends paid in 2007 and 2006 were $6.7 billion and $6.8 billion, respectively, a decrease of 2.4%, primarily reflecting a lower dividend rate in 2007
due to the Kraft spin-off, partially offset by a greater number of shares outstanding in 2007. During the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69 per share so that its stockholders who retained their
Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive in the aggregate the same dividend dollars as before the distribution. During the third quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved an 8.7% increase in the quarterly
dividend rate to $0.75 per share. As a result, the present annualized dividend rate is $3.00 per share.            As a result of the PMI spin-off discussed above, Altria Group, Inc. intends to adjust its current dividend so that its stockholders who retain their
Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the PMI Distribution. In that regard, PMI s annualized dividend rate will be $1.84 per common share and Altria Group, Inc. s annualized
dividend rate will be $1.16 per common share.            On
January 30, 2008, the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors approved a $7.5 billion two-year share repurchase program which is expected to begin in April 2008, after completion of the PMI spin-off. The Board of Directors also approved a $13.0
billion two-year share repurchase program for PMI, which is expected to begin in May 2008.             Market Risk             ALG s subsidiaries
operate globally, with manufacturing and sales facilities in various locations around the world. ALG and its subsidiaries utilize certain financial instruments to manage foreign currency exposures. Derivative financial instruments are used by ALG
and its subsidiaries, principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does not use
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.            Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of income taxes, during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as follows:         
       
   42   

Exhibit 13          
   The fair value of all derivative financial instruments has been calculated based on market quotes.
                 Foreign exchange rates:
 Altria Group, Inc. uses forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates from third-party and intercompany actual and forecasted transactions. The
primary currencies to which Altria Group, Inc. is exposed include the Japanese yen, Swiss franc, euro, Turkish lira, Russian ruble and Indonesian rupiah. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. had contracts with aggregate notional
amounts of $6.9 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, of which $6.9 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, were at PMI. A portion of Altria Group, Inc. s foreign currency swaps, while effective as economic hedges, do not qualify for hedge
accounting and therefore the unrealized gain (loss) relating to these contracts are reported in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the unrealized gain (loss) with
regard to the contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting was insignificant.            In addition, Altria Group, Inc. uses foreign currency swaps to mitigate its exposure to changes in exchange rates related to foreign currency denominated debt. These swaps typically convert fixed-rate foreign currency
denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, and are accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the notional amounts of foreign currency swap agreements aggregated
$1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.            Altria Group,
Inc. also designates certain foreign currency denominated debt and forwards as net investment hedges of foreign operations. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, these hedges of net investments resulted in losses, net of income
taxes, of $45 million and $164 million, respectively, and during the year ended December 31, 2005, resulted in a gain, net of income taxes, of $369 million. These gains and losses were reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive
earnings (losses) within currency translation adjustments.                  Value at Risk:  Altria Group, Inc. uses a value at risk ( VAR ) computation to estimate the potential one-day loss in the fair value of its interest rate-sensitive financial instruments and to
estimate the potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings of its foreign currency derivative financial instruments. The VAR computation includes Altria Group, Inc. s debt; short-term investments; and foreign currency forwards, swaps and options.
Anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the foregoing instruments are intended to hedge, were excluded from the computation.            The VAR estimates were made assuming normal market conditions, using a 95%
confidence interval. Altria Group, Inc. used a  variance/co-variance  model to determine the observed interrelationships between movements in interest rates and various currencies. These interrelationships were determined by observing
interest rate and forward currency rate movements over the preceding quarter for the calculation of VAR amounts at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and over each of the four preceding quarters for the calculation of average VAR amounts during each
year. The values of foreign currency options do not change on a one-to-one basis with the underlying currency, and were valued accordingly in the VAR computation.            The estimated potential one-day loss in fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s interest rate-sensitive instruments,
primarily debt, under normal market conditions and the estimated potential one-day loss in pre-tax earnings from foreign currency instruments under normal market conditions, as calculated in the VAR model, were as follows:         
          The VAR computation is
a risk analysis tool designed to statistically estimate the maximum probable daily loss from adverse movements in interest rates, foreign currency rates and commodity prices under normal market conditions. The computation does not purport to
represent actual losses in fair value or earnings to be incurred by Altria Group, Inc., nor does it consider the effect of favorable changes in market rates. Altria Group, Inc. cannot predict actual future movements in such market rates and does not
present these VAR results to be indicative of future movements in such market rates or to be representative of any actual impact that future changes in market rates may have on its future results of operations or financial position.             New Accounting Standards             See Note 2, Note 16 and Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of new accounting standards.             Contingencies             See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements for a discussion of contingencies.         
   43   

Exhibit 13          
    Cautionary Factors That May Affect Future Results              Forward-Looking and Cautionary Statements             We   *    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including statements contained in filings with the SEC, in reports to stockholders and in press releases and
investor webcasts. You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will, 
 estimates,   intends,   projects,   goals,   targets  and other words of similar meaning. You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.
           We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be
realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions. Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and inaccurate assumptions. Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should
underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected. Investors should bear this in mind as they consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested
in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause
actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements. We elaborate on these and other risks we face
throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses. You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk
factors. Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties. We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time.                  Tobacco-Related Litigation:  There is
substantial litigation related to tobacco products in the United States and certain foreign jurisdictions. Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant, and in certain cases, range into the billions of dollars. We
anticipate that new cases will continue to be filed. It is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional
litigation. Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that
such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given that 42 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.            It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of PM USA, PMI or Altria Group,
Inc. could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes the litigation
environment has substantially improved. ALG and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to the litigation pending against
it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended. However, ALG and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is
in the best interests of ALG s stockholders to do so. Please see Note 19 for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation.                  Corporate Restructuring:  On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors of ALG authorized the spin-off of PMI to ALG
shareholders. The distribution will be made on March 28, 2008 to ALG shareholders of record as of 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on March 19, 2008. It is possible that an action may be brought seeking to enjoin the spin-off. Any such injunction
would have to be based on a finding that Altria is insolvent or would be insolvent after giving effect to the spin-off or intends to delay, hinder or defraud creditors. In the event the spin-off is challenged, ALG will defend such action vigorously,
including by prosecuting any necessary appeals. Although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes that Altria should ultimately prevail against such action.                  Tobacco Control Action in the Public and Private Sectors:  Our tobacco subsidiaries face
significant governmental action, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of smoking, restricting marketing and advertising, imposing regulations on warnings and disclosure of ingredients and flavors, and seeking to hold us responsible for
the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke. Governmental actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking and private actions to restrict smoking, have resulted in reduced
industry volume, and we expect that such actions will continue to reduce consumption levels. Significant regulatory developments will take place over the next few years in most of PMI s markets, driven principally by the World Health
Organization s Framework Convention for Tobacco Control, or FCTC. The FCTC is the first international public health treaty, and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of
tobacco use and encouraging cessation. In addition, the FCTC has led to increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and public health organizations to reduce the palatability and appeal of tobacco products to adult smokers.            Regulatory initiatives affecting our tobacco subsidiaries that have been
proposed, introduced or enacted include:         

the levying of substantial and increasing tax and duty charges;            

restrictions or bans on advertising, marketing and sponsorship;            

the display of larger health warnings, graphic health warnings and other labeling requirements;            

restrictions on packaging design, including the use of colors and generic packaging;            

restrictions or bans on the display of tobacco product packaging at the point of sale, and restrictions or bans on cigarette vending machines;

requirements regarding testing, disclosure and performance standards for tar, nicotine, carbon monoxide and other smoke constituents levels;

*  
  This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among ALG and its various operating subsidiaries or when any
distinction is clear from the context.           
   44   

Exhibit 13          

requirements regarding testing, disclosure and use of tobacco product ingredients and flavors;            

increased restrictions on smoking in public and work places and, in some instances, in private places and outdoors;            

implementation of measures that ensure that descriptive terms do not create the false impression that one brand of cigarettes is safer than another;

elimination of duty free allowances for travelers; and            

encouraging litigation against tobacco companies.               Partly because of some or a combination of these measures, unit sales of tobacco products in certain markets, principally Western Europe and Japan, have
been in general decline and PMI expects this trend to continue. PMI s operating income could be significantly affected by any significant decrease in demand for its products, any significant increase in the cost of complying with new regulatory
requirements and requirements that lead to a commoditization of tobacco products.                  Excise Taxes:  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States and to substantial taxation abroad. Significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or
fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States, the Member States of the European Union (the  EU ) and in other foreign jurisdictions. For example, legislation was passed by
the United States Congress in 2007 that would increase the federal excise tax on cigarettes by $0.61 a pack. The President vetoed this legislation. It is not possible to predict whether such legislation will be reintroduced and become law. In
addition, in certain jurisdictions, PMI s products are subject to tax structures that discriminate against premium priced products and manufactured cigarettes and to inconsistent rulings and interpretations on complex methodologies to determine
excise and other tax burdens.            Tax increases and discriminatory
tax structures are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of our tobacco products due to lower consumption levels and to a shift in consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low priced
or low taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.                  Minimum Retail Selling Price Laws:  Several EU Member States have enacted laws establishing a minimum retail selling price for cigarettes and, in some cases, other tobacco products. The European
Commission has commenced infringement proceedings against these Member States, claiming that minimum retail selling price systems infringe EU law. If the European Commission s actions are successful, they could adversely impact excise tax
levels and/or price gaps in those markets.                  Increased Competition in the United States Tobacco Market:  Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA faces competition
from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid
escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states. Additional competition has
resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means
designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and increased imports of foreign lowest priced brands.                  International Competition:  PMI competes primarily on the basis of product quality, taste, brand recognition, brand loyalty, service, marketing, advertising and
price. PMI is subject to highly competitive conditions in all aspects of its business. The competitive environment and PMI s competitive position can be significantly influenced by weak economic conditions, erosion of consumer confidence,
competitors  introduction of low priced products or innovative products, higher cigarette taxes, higher absolute prices and larger gaps between price categories, and products regulation that diminishes the ability to differentiate tobacco
products. Competitors include three large international tobacco companies and several regional and local tobacco companies and, in some instances, government-owned tobacco monopolies, principally in the PRC, Egypt, Thailand, Taiwan and Algeria.
Industry consolidation and privatizations of governmental monopolies have led to an overall increase in competitive pressures. Some competitors have different profit and volume objectives and some international competitors are less susceptible to
changes in currency exchange rates.                  Counterfeit Cigarettes in International Markets:  Large quantities of counterfeit cigarettes are sold in the international market. PMI believes that  Marlboro  is the most heavily counterfeited
international cigarette brand, although PMI cannot quantify the amount of revenue it loses as a result of this activity. In addition, PMI s revenues are reduced by contraband and legal cross-border transactions.                  Governmental Investigations:  From time to
time, ALG and its tobacco subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters. Ongoing investigations include allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes, allegations of unlawful pricing activities within certain
international markets and false or misleading usage of descriptors such as  Lights  and  Ultra Lights.  We cannot predict the outcome of those investigations or whether additional investigations may be commenced, and it is
possible that our tobacco subsidiaries  businesses could be materially affected by an unfavorable outcome of pending or future investigations.                  New Tobacco Product Technologies:  Our tobacco subsidiaries continue to seek ways to develop and to commercialize new
product technologies that may reduce the risk of tobacco use while continuing to offer adult consumers products that meet their taste expectations. Potential solutions being researched include attempting to reduce constituents in tobacco smoke
identified by public health authorities as harmful and seeking to produce products that reduce or eliminate exposure to tobacco smoke. Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts. If they do not succeed, but one or more of their
competitors do, our tobacco subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage. Further, we cannot predict whether regulators will permit the marketing of products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, which could significantly undermine the
commercial viability of any products that might be developed.                  Adjacency Strategy:  ALG, PM USA and PMI have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary tobacco or tobacco-related products or processes. We cannot guarantee that
these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful.                  Foreign Currency:  PMI conducts its business in local currency and, for purposes of financial reporting, its results are translated into U.S. dollars based on average
exchange rates prevailing during a reporting period. During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar, our reported net revenues and operating income will be reduced because the local currency will translate into  
       
   45   

Exhibit 13          
  
 fewer U.S. dollars. During periods of economic crises internationally, foreign currencies may be devalued significantly against the U.S. dollar, reducing
PMI s margins. Actions to recover margins may result in lower volume and a weaker competitive position for PMI.                  Tobacco Availability and Quality:  Government mandated prices, production control programs, shifts in crops driven by
economic conditions and adverse weather patterns may increase or decrease the cost or reduce the quality of tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products. As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf
and cloves can be influenced by imbalances in supply and demand and crop quality can be influenced by variations in weather patterns. Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including governmental mandated prices
and production control programs. Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products could cause farmers to plant less tobacco. Any significant change in tobacco leaf and clove prices, quality and quantity could affect our tobacco
subsidiaries  profitability and business.                  Attracting and Retaining Talent:  Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best global talent may be impaired by the decreasing social acceptance of cigarette smoking. The
tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance. As a result, our tobacco subsidiaries may be unable to attract and retain the best global talent.                  Competition and Economic Downturns:  Each
of our tobacco subsidiaries is subject to intense competition, changes in consumer preferences and local economic conditions. To be successful, they must continue to:         

promote brand equity successfully;            

anticipate and respond to new consumer trends;            

develop new products and markets and to broaden brand portfolios in order to compete effectively with lower priced products;            

improve productivity; and            

be able to protect or enhance margins through price increases.               The willingness of consumers to purchase premium cigarette brands depends in part on local economic conditions. In periods
of economic uncertainty, consumers tend to purchase more private label and other economy brands, and the volume of our consumer products subsidiaries could suffer accordingly.            Our finance subsidiary, PMCC, holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power
generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities. Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions. If counterparties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC
may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our profitability.                  Acquisitions:  One element of PMI s growth strategy is to strengthen its brand portfolio and/or expand its geographic reach through active programs of selective
acquisitions. ALG and PM USA from time to time consider acquisitions as part of their adjacency strategy, as evidenced by ALG s 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. Acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of
failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings. There can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms or
that all future acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings.                  Asset Impairment:  We periodically calculate the fair value of our goodwill and intangible assets to test for impairment. This calculation may be affected by the market conditions noted above, as well as
interest rates and general economic conditions. If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.                  IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases:  The IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns
for the years 1996 through 1999 and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria
Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding
these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings,
an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in
the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to
vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of
these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of
the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB
Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.         
   46   

Exhibit 13          
    Selected Financial Data   Five-Year Review       (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
          This Selected Financial Data should be
read together with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation  to the consolidated financial statements .          
   47   

Exhibit 13          
    Consolidated Balance Sheets       (in millions of dollars, except share and per share data)       
  
          See
notes to consolidated financial statements.               
   48   

Exhibit 13          

49   

Exhibit 13          
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings       (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         
          See
notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   50   

Exhibit 13          
    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity       (in millions of dollars, except per share data)         

(1)  
  Includes $179 million increase to additional paid-in-capital for the reimbursement from Kraft for Altria stock awards. See Note 1.              See notes to consolidated financial statements.   
     
   51   

Exhibit 13          
    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows       (in millions of dollars)         
          See
notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   52   

Exhibit 13          

53   

Exhibit 13          
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                  Note 1.              Background and Basis of Presentation:                   Background:  Throughout these financial statements, the term  Altria Group, Inc.  refers to the consolidated
financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Altria family of companies, and the term  ALG  refers solely to the parent company. ALG s wholly-owned subsidiaries, Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), Philip
Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) and John Middleton, Inc. are engaged in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes and other tobacco products. Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), another wholly-owned subsidiary, maintains a
portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases. In addition, ALG held a 28.6% economic and voting interest in SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ) at December 31, 2007. ALG s access to the operating cash flows of its subsidiaries
consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and interest, and the repayment of amounts borrowed from ALG by its subsidiaries.            On March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft Foods, Inc. ( Kraft ) on a pro-rata basis to
Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution.  For further discussion, please refer to the Kraft Spin-Off discussion below.  Altria Group, Inc. has reclassified and reflected the results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution
Date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued
operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.            As further discussed in Note 21.  Subsequent Events , on January 30, 2008, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors approved a tax-free distribution of PMI to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders.            In November 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced that it had signed an
agreement to sell its headquarters building in New York City for approximately $525 million and will record a pre-tax gain of approximately $400 million upon closing the transaction. Under the terms of the agreement, Altria Group, Inc. plans to
close the sale no later than April 1, 2008.              
     Kraft Spin-Off:   On March 30, 2007 (the  Kraft Distribution Date ), Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record
as of the close of business on March 16, 2007 (the  Kraft Record Date ) in a tax-free distribution. The distribution ratio was 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group,
Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft. Following the distribution, Altria Group, Inc. does not own any shares of Kraft. During the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adjusted its quarterly dividend to $0.69
per share, so that its stockholders who retained their Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft shares would receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the distribution. In August 2007, Altria Group, Inc. increased its quarterly dividend to
$0.75 per share.            Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options
were treated similarly to public stockholders and accordingly, had their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options received the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off, had an
aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:         

a new Kraft option to acquire the number of shares of Kraft Class A common stock equal to the product of (a) the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held
by such person on the Kraft Distribution Date and (b) the distribution ratio of 0.692024 mentioned above; and            

an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      
        The new Kraft option has an exercise price equal to the Kraft market price
at the time of the distribution ($31.66) multiplied by the Option Conversion Ratio, which represents the exercise price of the original Altria Group, Inc. option divided by the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately before the distribution
($87.81). The reduced exercise price of the adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option is determined by multiplying the Altria Group, Inc. market price immediately following the distribution ($65.90) by the Option Conversion Ratio.                Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock
awarded prior to January 31, 2007, retained their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock. The amount of Kraft restricted stock or deferred stock awarded to such holders was calculated
using the same formula set forth above with respect to new Kraft options. All of the restricted stock and deferred stock will vest at the completion of the original restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant).
Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 31, 2007, did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft. Rather, they received additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of
the original award.            To the extent that employees of the
remaining Altria Group, Inc. received Kraft stock options, Altria Group, Inc. reimbursed Kraft in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options received. To the extent that Kraft employees held Altria Group, Inc. stock options, Kraft
reimbursed Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent that holders of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock received Kraft deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. paid to Kraft the fair value of the Kraft
deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at the Kraft Distribution Date, the net amount of these reimbursements resulted in a payment of $179 million from Kraft to
Altria Group, Inc. in April 2007. The reimbursement from Kraft is reflected as an increase to the additional paid-in capital of Altria Group, Inc. on the December 31, 2007 consolidated balance sheet.            Kraft was previously included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal
income tax return, and federal income tax contingencies were recorded as liabilities on the balance sheet of ALG. As part of the intercompany account settlement discussed below, ALG reimbursed Kraft in cash for these liabilities, which as of
March 30, 2007, were approximately $305 million, plus pre-tax interest of $63 million ($41 million after taxes). ALG also reimbursed Kraft in cash for the federal income tax consequences of the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board
( FASB ) Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ) (approximately $70 million plus pre-tax  
       
   54   

Exhibit 13          
  
 interest of $14 million, $9 million after taxes). See Note 14.  Income Taxes  for a discussion of the FIN 48 adoption and the Tax Sharing Agreement
between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft.            A subsidiary of ALG
previously provided Kraft with certain services at cost plus a 5% management fee. After the Kraft Distribution Date, Kraft undertook these activities, and any remaining limited services provided to Kraft ceased during 2007. All intercompany accounts
were settled in cash within 30 days of the Kraft Distribution Date. The settlement of the intercompany accounts (including the amounts discussed above related to stock awards and tax contingencies) resulted in a net payment from Kraft to ALG of $85
million in April 2007.            The distribution resulted in a net
decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity of $27.4 billion on the Kraft Distribution Date.                  Basis of presentation:  The consolidated financial statements include ALG, as well as its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Investments in which ALG exercises significant influence (20%-50% ownership interest), are accounted for under the equity method of accounting. Investments in which ALG has an ownership interest of less than 20%, or does not exercise significant
influence, are accounted for under the cost method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. The results of Kraft prior to the Kraft Distribution Date have been reclassified and reflected as discontinued
operations on the consolidated statements of earnings and statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2006.            The preparation of financial
statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods. Significant estimates and assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit
plan assumptions, lives and valuation assumptions of goodwill and other intangible assets, marketing programs, income taxes, and the allowance for loan losses and estimated residual values of finance leases. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.            Balance sheet accounts are segregated by two broad
types of business. Consumer products assets and liabilities are classified as either current or non-current, whereas financial services assets and liabilities are unclassified, in accordance with respective industry practices.            Certain subsidiaries of PMI report their results up to ten days before the
end of December, rather than on December 31.            Beginning
with the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable segments to reflect PMI s operations by geographic region. Altria Group, Inc. s revised segments, which are reflected in these financial statements, are U.S.
tobacco; European Union; Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa; Asia; Latin America; and Financial Services. Accordingly, prior year segment results have been revised.       
          Note 2.              Summary of Significant Accounting Policies:                   Cash and cash equivalents:  Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less.                  Depreciation, amortization and goodwill valuation:  Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical cost and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods ranging from 3 to 15 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years.            Definite life intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives. Altria Group, Inc. is required to conduct an annual review of goodwill
and intangible assets for potential impairment. Goodwill impairment testing requires a comparison between the carrying value and fair value of each reporting unit. If the carrying value exceeds the fair value, goodwill is considered impaired. The
amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value of goodwill, which is determined using discounted cash flows. Impairment testing for non-amortizable intangible assets requires a comparison
between the fair value and carrying value of the intangible asset. If the carrying value exceeds fair value, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. During 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. completed its annual
review of goodwill and intangible assets, and no charges resulted from these reviews.            
  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows:       
  
          Intangible assets were
as follows:         
          Non-amortizable
intangible assets substantially consist of brand names from Altria Group, Inc. s 2007 acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. and PMI s 2005 acquisition of a business in Indonesia. Amortizable intangible assets consist primarily of certain
trademark licenses, non-compete agreements  
       
   55   

Exhibit 13          
  
 and customer relationships. Pre-tax amortization expense for intangible assets during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $28 million,
$23 million, and $18 million, respectively. Amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be $40 million or less, assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets.            Goodwill is due primarily to PMI s acquisitions in Indonesia, Mexico,
Greece, Serbia, Colombia and Pakistan. The movement in goodwill and gross carrying amount of intangible assets is as follows:         
          The increase in
goodwill from acquisitions during 2007 was primarily related to the preliminary allocations of the purchase price for PMI s acquisitions in Mexico and Pakistan. The increase in intangible assets from acquisitions during 2007 was related
primarily to Altria Group, Inc. s acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. The allocations of purchase price for PMI s acquisitions in Mexico and Pakistan, and Altria Group, Inc. s acquisition of John Middleton, Inc. are based upon
preliminary estimates and assumptions and are subject to revision when appraisals are finalized in 2008. The increase in goodwill from acquisitions during 2006 was primarily related to the exchange of PMI s interest in a beer business for 100%
ownership of a cigarette business in the Dominican Republic. The increase in intangible assets from acquisitions during 2006 was related to PMI s purchase of various trademarks from British American Tobacco. See Note 5.  Acquisitions  for
a further discussion of acquisitions.                  Environmental costs:  Altria Group, Inc. is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental
remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated. Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.            While it is not possible to quantify with certainty the potential impact of
actions regarding environmental remediation and compliance efforts that Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future, in the opinion of management, environmental remediation and compliance costs, before taking into account any recoveries from
third parties, will not have a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.                  Finance leases:  Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently
recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances. Investments in leveraged leases are stated net of related nonrecourse debt obligations.            Income attributable to direct finance leases is initially recorded as
unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant pre-tax rates of return on the net investment balances.            Finance leases include unguaranteed residual values that represent PMCC s estimates at lease inception as to the fair
values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms. The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management based on a number of factors and activity in the relevant industry. If necessary, revisions are
recorded to reduce the residual values. Such reviews resulted in decreases of $11 million and $14 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively, to PMCC s net revenues and results of operations. Residual reviews in 2005 resulted in no adjustments.
                 Foreign currency translation:
 Altria Group, Inc. translates the results of operations of its foreign subsidiaries using average exchange rates during each period, whereas balance sheet accounts are translated using exchange rates at the end of each period. Currency
translation adjustments are recorded as a component of stockholders  equity. Transaction gains and losses are recorded in the consolidated statements of earnings and were not significant for any of the periods presented.                  Guarantees:  Altria Group, Inc. accounts
for guarantees in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) Interpretation No. 45,  Guarantor s Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of
Others.  Interpretation No. 45 requires the disclosure of certain guarantees and requires the recognition of a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities. See Note 19.  Contingencies  for a
further discussion of guarantees.                  Hedging instruments:  Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets as either assets or liabilities. Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded
each period either in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) or in earnings, depending on whether a derivative is designated and effective as part of a hedge transaction and, if it is, the type of hedge transaction. Gains and losses on
derivative instruments reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of earnings in the periods in which operating results are affected by the hedged item. Cash flows from hedging
instruments are classified in the same manner as the affected hedged item in the consolidated statements of cash flows.                  Impairment of long-lived assets:  Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including amortizable intangible
assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be fully recoverable. Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an
impairment exists. For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable. If an impairment is
determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value. Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.                  Income taxes:  Altria Group, Inc. accounts
for income taxes in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes.  Under SFAS No. 109, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the
difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. Significant judgment is required in determining income tax
provisions and in evaluating tax positions.         
   56   

Exhibit 13          
   On January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FIN 48. The Interpretation
prescribes a recognition threshold and a measurement attribute for the financial statement recognition and measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. For those benefits to be recognized, a tax position must be
more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities. The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50 percent likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement. As a result of the
January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, Altria Group, Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders  equity of $857 million ($835 million, net of minority interest), a
reduction of Kraft s goodwill of $85 million and a reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.            Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2,  Accounting for a Change or Projected Change in the Timing of Cash
Flows Relating to Income Taxes Generated by a Leveraged Lease Transaction  ( FAS 13-2 ) effective January 1, 2007. This Staff Position requires the revenue recognition calculation to be reevaluated if there is a revision to the
projected timing of income tax cash flows generated by a leveraged lease. The adoption of this Staff Position by Altria Group, Inc. resulted in a reduction to stockholders  equity of $124 million as of January 1, 2007.                  Inventories:  Inventories are stated at
the lower of cost or market. The last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method is used to cost substantially all U.S. tobacco inventories. The cost of inventories of the international tobacco segments is principally determined by the first-in,
first-out and average cost methods. It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco inventory as a current asset although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the aging process, ordinarily would not be utilized
within one year.            Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of
SFAS No. 151,  Inventory Costs  prospectively as of January 1, 2006. SFAS No. 151 requires that abnormal idle facility expense, spoilage, freight and handling costs be recognized as current-period charges. In addition, SFAS
No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overhead costs to inventories be based on the normal capacity of the production facility. The effect of adoption did not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated
results of operations, financial position or cash flows.                  Marketing costs:  ALG s subsidiaries promote their products with advertising, consumer incentives and trade promotions. Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates,
in-store display incentives and volume-based incentives. Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and
consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates. For interim reporting purposes, advertising and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on
estimated sales and related expenses for the full year.                  Revenue recognition:  The consumer products businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment or delivery of goods when
title and risk of loss pass to customers. ALG s consumer products businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in revenues. Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales.                  Software costs:  Altria Group, Inc.
capitalizes certain computer software and software development costs incurred in connection with developing or obtaining computer software for internal use. Capitalized software costs are included in property, plant and equipment on the consolidated
balance sheets and are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the software, which do not exceed five years.                  Stock-based compensation:  Effective January 1, 2006, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of SFAS
No. 123 (Revised 2004)  Share-Based Payment  ( SFAS No. 123(R) ) using the modified prospective method, which requires measurement of compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and
recognition of compensation over the service periods for awards expected to vest. The fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the market value at date of grant. The fair value of
stock options is determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology. The impact of adoption was not material.            The adoption of SFAS No. 123(R) resulted in a cumulative effect gain of $3 million, which is net of $2 million in taxes, in the consolidated
statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2006. This gain resulted from the impact of estimating future forfeitures on restricted stock and deferred stock in the determination of periodic expense for unvested awards, rather than
recording forfeitures only when they occur. The gross cumulative effect was recorded in marketing, administration and research costs for the year ended December 31, 2006.                Altria Group, Inc. previously applied the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board
Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  ( APB 25 ) and provided the pro forma disclosures required by SFAS No. 123,  Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  ( SFAS
No. 123 ). No compensation expense for employee stock options was reflected in net earnings in 2005, as all stock options granted under those plans had an exercise price not less than the fair market value of the common stock on the date
of the grant. Historical consolidated statements of earnings already include the compensation expense for restricted stock and deferred stock. The following table illustrates the effect on net earnings and earnings per share ( EPS ) if
Altria Group, Inc. had applied the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 to measure compensation expense for stock option awards for the year ended December 31, 2005:         

(in millions, except per share data)                
      
  2005     
 
    Net earnings, as reported   
      
  $  
  10,435   
 
    Deduct:   

Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value method for all stock option awards, net of related tax effects

15   

Pro forma net earnings   
      
  $  
  10,420   

Earnings per share:   

Basic - as reported   
      
  $  
  5.04   

Basic - pro forma   
      
  $  
  5.03   

Diluted - as reported   
      
  $  
  4.99   

Diluted - pro forma   
      
  $  
  4.98   

57   

Exhibit 13          
   Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options to employees since 2002. The amount shown above as
stock-based compensation expense relates to Executive Ownership Stock Options ( EOSOs ). Under certain circumstances, senior executives who exercised outstanding stock options, using shares to pay the option exercise price and taxes,
received EOSOs equal to the number of shares tendered. This feature ceased during 2007. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Altria Group, Inc. granted 0.5 million, 0.7 million and 2.0 million EOSOs,
respectively.            Altria Group, Inc. elected to calculate the
initial pool of tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the stock-based employee compensation expense recognized in the statement of earnings ( excess tax benefits ) under the FASB Staff Position 123(R)-3,  Transition
Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards.  Excess tax benefits occur when the tax deduction claimed at vesting exceeds the fair value compensation expense accrued under SFAS No. 123(R). Excess tax
benefits of $141 million and $195 million were recognized for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and were presented as financing cash flows. Previously, excess tax benefits were included in operating cash flows. Under
SFAS No. 123(R), tax shortfalls occur when actual tax deductible compensation expense is less than cumulative stock-based compensation expense recognized in the financial statements. Tax shortfalls of $8 million at Kraft were recognized for the
year ended December 31, 2006, and were recorded in additional paid-in capital.                  New Accounting Standards:  In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (Revised 2007)  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) ). SFAS 141(R) is effective for
business combinations that close on or after January 1, 2009, the first day of Altria Group, Inc. s annual reporting period beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS 141(R) requires the recognition of assets acquired, liabilities
assumed and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree to be measured at fair value as of the acquisition date. Additionally, costs incurred to effect the acquisition are to be recognized separately from the acquisition and expensed as incurred.
           Additionally, in December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS
No. 160  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements  ( SFAS 160 ). SFAS 160 changes the reporting for minority interests by reporting these as noncontrolling interests within equity. Moreover, SFAS 160
requires that any transactions between an entity and a noncontrolling interest are to be accounted for as equity transactions. SFAS 160 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. SFAS 160 is
to be applied prospectively, except for the presentation and disclosure requirements, which shall be applied retrospectively for all periods presented.            Altria Group, Inc. is currently in the process of evaluating the impact of these pronouncements.                 Note 3.              Asset Impairment and Exit Costs:             For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, pre-tax asset impairment and exit
costs consisted of the following:         
       
   58   

Exhibit 13          
   The movement in the asset impairment and exit cost liabilities for Altria Group, Inc. for the years
ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 was as follows:         
           Manufacturing Optimization Program
            In June 2007, Altria Group, Inc. announced plans by its tobacco
subsidiaries to optimize worldwide cigarette production by moving U.S.-based cigarette production for non-U.S. markets to PMI facilities in Europe. Due to declining U.S. cigarette volume, as well as PMI s decision to re-source its production,
PM USA will close its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility and consolidate manufacturing for the U.S. market at its Richmond, Virginia manufacturing center. PMI expects to shift all of its PM USA-sourced production, which approximates 57
billion cigarettes, to PMI facilities in Europe by the third quarter of 2008 and PM USA will close its Cabarrus manufacturing facility by the end of 2010.            As a result of this program, from 2007 through 2011, PM USA expects to incur total pre-tax charges of approximately $670 million, comprised of accelerated
depreciation of $143 million (including the above mentioned asset impairment charge of $35 million recorded in 2007), employee separation costs of $353 million and other charges of $174 million, primarily related to the relocation of employees and
equipment, net of estimated gains on sales of land and buildings. Approximately $440 million, or 66% of the total pre-tax charges, will result in cash expenditures. PM USA recorded total pre-tax charges of $371 million in 2007 related to this
program. These charges were comprised of pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs of $344 million, and $27 million of pre-tax implementation costs associated with the program. The pre-tax implementation costs primarily related to accelerated
depreciation and were included in cost of sales in the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax charges of approximately $140 million are expected during 2008 for the program.             Philip Morris International Asset Impairment and Exit Costs             During 2007, 2006 and 2005, PMI announced plans for the streamlining of various
administrative functions and operations. These plans resulted in the announced closure or partial closure of 9 production facilities through December 31, 2007, the largest of which is the closure of a factory in Munich, Germany announced in
2006. As a result of these announcements, PMI recorded pre-tax charges of $195 million, $126 million and $90 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The 2007 pre-tax charges primarily related to severance
costs. The 2006 pre-tax charges included $57 million of costs related to PMI s Munich factory closure. The 2005 pre-tax charges primarily related to the write-off of obsolete equipment, severance benefits and impairment charges associated with
the closure of a factory in the Czech Republic, and the streamlining of various operations. Pre-tax charges, primarily related to severance, of approximately $65 million related to these previously announced plans are expected during 2008.
           Cash payments related to exit costs at PMI were $124 million,
$44 million and $40 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Future cash payments for exit costs incurred to date are expected to be approximately $170 million.            The streamlining of these various functions and operations is expected to
result in the elimination of approximately 3,400 positions. As of December 31, 2007, approximately 2,400 of these positions have been eliminated.             Corporate Asset Impairment and Exit Costs                 In 2007, 2006 and 2005, general corporate pre-tax charges were $111 million, $42 million and $49 million, respectively. These charges primarily
related to investment banking and legal fees in 2007 associated with the Kraft and potential PMI spin-off, as well as the streamlining of various corporate functions in each year.                 Note 4.              Divestitures:              Discontinued Operations:             As further
discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , on March 30, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. distributed all of its remaining interest in Kraft on a pro-rata basis to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. Altria
Group, Inc. stockholders received 0.692024 of a share of Kraft for each share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding. Altria Group, Inc. stockholders received cash in lieu of fractional shares of Kraft. The distribution was accounted for as
a dividend and as such resulted in a net decrease of $27.4 billion to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity on March 30, 2007.            Altria Group, Inc. has reflected the results of Kraft prior to the distribution date as discontinued operations on the consolidated statements of earnings
and the consolidated statements of cash flows for all periods presented. The assets and liabilities related to Kraft were reclassified and reflected as discontinued operations on the consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2006.   
     
   59   

Exhibit 13          
   Summarized financial information for discontinued operations for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:         
          Summarized assets and
liabilities of discontinued operations as of December 31, 2006 were as follows:         
           Other             As discussed in Note 5.  Acquisitions , in 2006, PMI exchanged its interest in a beer
business in the Dominican Republic for a cigarette business in the Dominican Republic and $427 million of cash. This transaction resulted in a pre-tax gain on sale of $488 million. The aggregate proceeds received from divestitures during 2006 were
$520 million. These divestitures were not material to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, operating results or cash flows in any of the periods presented.                 Note 5.              Acquisitions:              John Middleton, Inc.             On
December 11, 2007, in conjunction with PM USA s adjacency strategy, Altria Group, Inc. acquired 100% of John Middleton, Inc., a leading manufacturer of machine-made large cigars, for $2.9 billion in cash. The acquisition was financed with
existing cash. John Middleton, Inc. s balance sheet has been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. s as of December 31, 2007. Earnings from December 12, 2007 to December 31, 2007, the amounts of which were insignificant, have
been included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated operating results.            Assets purchased consist primarily of non-amortizable intangible assets related to acquired brands of $2.6 billion, amortizable intangible assets of $0.1 billion, goodwill of $0.1 billion and other assets of $0.1
billion, partially offset by accrued liabilities assumed in the acquisition. These amounts represent the preliminary allocation of purchase price and are subject to revision when appraisals are finalized in 2008.             PMI   Mexico             In November 2007, PMI acquired an additional 30% stake in its Mexican tobacco business from Grupo Carso, S.A.B. de C.V. ( Grupo
Carso ), which increased PMI s ownership interest to 80%, for $1.1 billion. After this transaction was completed, Grupo Carso retained a 20% stake in the business. PMI also entered into an agreement with Grupo Carso which provides the
basis for PMI to potentially acquire, or for Grupo Carso to potentially sell to PMI, Grupo Carso s remaining 20% in the future. This agreement will be valued as part of the allocation of purchase price.            Assets purchased consist primarily of goodwill of $1.2 billion, inventories
of $168 million, property, plant and equipment of $157 million and other intangible assets (primarily brands) of $32 million. Liabilities assumed in the acquisition consist principally of accrued liabilities. These amounts represent the preliminary
allocation of purchase price and are subject to revision when appraisals are finalized in 2008.             PMI   Holdings in the Dominican Republic             In November 2006, a subsidiary of PMI exchanged its 47.5% interest in E. Le n Jimenes, C. por. A. ( ELJ ), which included a 40% indirect interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary, Cerveceria Nacional Dominicana, C. por. A.,
for 100% ownership of ELJ s cigarette subsidiary, Industria de Tabaco Le n Jimenes, S.A. ( ITLJ ) and $427 million of cash, which was contributed to ITLJ prior to the transaction. As a result of the transaction, PMI now owns
100% of the cigarette business and no longer holds an interest in ELJ s beer business. The exchange of PMI s interest in ELJ s beer subsidiary resulted in a pre-tax gain on sale of $488 million, which increased Altria Group,
Inc. s 2006 net earnings by $0.15 per diluted share. The operating results of ELJ s cigarette subsidiary for the year ended December 31, 2007 and from November 2006 to December 31, 2006, the amounts of which were not material,
were included in Altria Group, Inc. s operating results in the respective years.             Sampoerna             In March 2005, a subsidiary of PMI acquired 40% of
the outstanding shares of PT HM Sampoerna Tbk ( Sampoerna ), an Indonesian tobacco company. In May 2005, PMI purchased an additional 58%, for a total of 98%. The total  
       
   60   

Exhibit 13          
  
 cost of the transaction was approximately $4.8 billion, including Sampoerna s cash of approximately $0.3 billion and debt of the U.S. dollar equivalent
of approximately $0.2 billion. The purchase price was primarily financed through PMI s credit facilities discussed further in Note 9.  Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements .            The acquisition of Sampoerna allowed PMI to enter the profitable kretek
cigarette category in Indonesia. Sampoerna s financial position and results of operations have been fully consolidated with PMI as of June 1, 2005. From March 2005 to May 2005, PMI recorded equity earnings in Sampoerna. During the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Sampoerna contributed $593 million, $608 million and $315 million, respectively, of operating income and $268 million, $249 million and $128 million, respectively, of net earnings.            During 2006, the allocation of purchase price relating to the acquisition of
Sampoerna was completed. Assets purchased consist primarily of goodwill of $3.5 billion, other intangible assets (primarily brands) of $1.3 billion, inventories of $0.5 billion and property, plant and equipment of $0.4 billion. Liabilities assumed
in the acquisition consist principally of long-term debt of $0.3 billion and accrued liabilities.             Other             During the first quarter of 2007,
PMI acquired an additional 50.2% stake in a Pakistan cigarette manufacturer, Lakson Tobacco Company Limited ( Lakson Tobacco ), and completed a mandatory tender offer for the remaining shares, which increased PMI s total ownership
interest in Lakson Tobacco from 40% to approximately 98%, for $388 million.            In the fourth quarter of 2006, PMI purchased from British American Tobacco the  Muratti  and  Ambassador  trademarks in certain markets, as well as the rights to  L M  and  Chesterfield  in
Hong Kong, in exchange for the rights to  Benson   Hedges  in certain African markets and a payment of $115 million.            During 2005, PMI acquired a 98% stake in Coltabaco, the largest tobacco company in Colombia, for approximately $300 million.            The effects of these other acquisitions, in the aggregate, were not material
to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial position, results of operations or operating cash flows in any of the periods presented.                 Note 6.              Inventories:             The cost of approximately 16% and 24% of inventories in 2007 and 2006, respectively, was determined using the LIFO method. The stated LIFO amounts of inventories were approximately $0.7 billion lower than the current
cost of inventories at December 31, 2007 and 2006.                 Note 7.              Investment in SABMiller:
            At December 31, 2007, ALG had a 28.6% economic and voting interest in
SABMiller. ALG s investment in SABMiller is being accounted for under the equity method and was $4.0 billion and $3.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. ALG had deferred tax liabilities of $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion
related to its investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Equity income from SABMiller is recorded in equity earnings and minority interest, net, in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.
           Summary financial data of SABMiller is as follows:   

The market value of
ALG s investment in SABMiller was $12.1 billion and $9.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            In October 2005, SABMiller purchased a 71.8% interest in Bavaria SA, the second-largest brewer in South America, in exchange for the issuance of
225 million SABMiller ordinary shares of common stock. The ordinary shares had a value of approximately $3.5 billion. The remaining shares of Bavaria SA were acquired through a cash tender offer. Following the completion of the share issuance,
ALG s economic ownership interest in SABMiller was reduced from 33.9% to 28.7%. In addition, ALG elected to convert all of its non-voting shares to voting shares, and as a result increased its voting interest from 24.9% to 28.7%. The issuance
of SABMiller ordinary common shares in exchange for controlling interest in Bavaria SA resulted in a change of ownership gain for ALG of $402 million, net of income taxes, that was recorded in stockholders  equity in the fourth quarter of 2005.
        
   61   

Exhibit 13          
        Note 8.        
      Finance Assets, net:             In 2003, PMCC shifted its strategic focus and is no longer making new investments but is instead focused on managing its existing portfolio of finance assets in order to
maximize gains and generate cash flow from asset sales and related activities. Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold. During 2007, 2006 and 2005, proceeds from asset sales,
maturities and bankruptcy recoveries totaled $569 million, $357 million and $476 million, respectively, and gains totaled $326 million, $132 million and $72 million, respectively, in operating companies income.            Included in the proceeds for 2007 were partial recoveries of amounts
previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses related to PMCC s airline exposure. The operating companies income associated with these recoveries, which is included in the gains shown above, was $214 million for the year ended
December 31, 2007.            At December 31, 2007, finance
assets, net, of $6,029 million were comprised of investments in finance leases of $6,221 million and other receivables of $12 million, reduced by the allowance for losses of $204 million. At December 31, 2006, finance assets, net, of $6,740
million were comprised of investments in finance leases of $7,207 million and other receivables of $13 million, reduced by the allowance for losses of $480 million.            A summary of the net investment in finance leases at December 31, before allowance for losses, was as follows:
        
          For leveraged leases,
rentals receivable, net, represent unpaid rentals, net of principal and interest payments on third-party nonrecourse debt. PMCC s rights to rentals receivable are subordinate to the third-party nonrecourse debtholders, and the leased equipment
is pledged as collateral to the debtholders. The payment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC. As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party
nonrecourse debt of $12.8 billion and $15.1 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, has been offset against the related rentals receivable. There were no leases with contingent rentals in 2007, 2006 and 2005.            At December 31, 2007, PMCC s investment in finance leases was
principally comprised of the following investment categories: electric power (30%), aircraft (23%), rail and surface transport (22%), manufacturing (14%), and real estate (11%). Investments located outside the United States, which are primarily
dollar-denominated, represent 21% and 22% of PMCC s investments in finance leases in 2007 and 2006, respectively.            PMCC leases one 750 megawatt ( MW ) natural gas-fired power plant (located in Pasadena, Texas) to an indirect subsidiary of Calpine Corporation
( Calpine ). Calpine, which has guaranteed the lease, is currently operating under bankruptcy protection. The subsidiary was not included as part of the bankruptcy filing of Calpine. PMCC does not record income on leases when the lessee or
its guarantor is in bankruptcy. At December 31, 2007, PMCC s finance asset balance for this lessee was $60 million. Based on PMCC s assessment of the prospect for recovery on the Pasadena plant, a portion of the outstanding finance
asset balance has been provided for in the allowance for losses. In July 2007, PMCC s interest in two 265 MW natural gas-fired power plants (located in Tiverton, Rhode Island, and Rumford, Maine), which were part of the bankruptcy filing, were
foreclosed upon. These leases were rejected and written off during 2006.                None of PMCC s aircraft lessees are operating under bankruptcy protection at December 31, 2007. One of PMCC s aircraft lessees, Northwest Airlines, Inc. ( Northwest ), exited bankruptcy on
May 31, 2007 and assumed PMCC s leveraged leases for three Airbus A-320 aircraft. PMCC s leases for 19 aircraft with Delta Air Lines, Inc. ( Delta ) were sold in early 2007.            The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006, 2005 was as follows:         
          The net impact to the
allowance for losses in 2007, 2006 and 2005 related primarily to various airline leases. Amounts recovered of $129 million in 2007 related to partial recoveries of amounts previously charged to earnings in the allowance for losses in prior years. In
addition, PMCC recovered $85 million related to amounts previously charged to earnings and written-off in the allowance for losses in prior years. In total, these recoveries resulted in additional operating companies income of $214 million for the
year ended December 31, 2007. As a result of the $200 million charge in 2005, PMCC s fixed charges coverage ratio did not meet its 1.25:1 requirement under a support agreement with ALG. Accordingly, as required by the  
       
   62   

Exhibit 13          
  
 support agreement, a support payment of $150 million was made by ALG to PMCC in September 2005. It is possible that additional adverse developments may
require PMCC to increase its allowance for losses. Acceleration of taxes on the foreclosures of leveraged leases written-off amounted to approximately $50 million and $80 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. There were no foreclosures in 2005.
           Rentals receivable in excess of debt service requirements on
third-party nonrecourse debt related to leveraged leases and rentals receivable from direct finance leases at December 31, 2007, were as follows:         
          Included in net
revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, were leveraged lease revenues of $204 million, $302 million and $303 million, respectively, and direct finance lease revenues of $15 million, $8 million and $11 million,
respectively. Income tax expense on leveraged lease revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, was $80 million, $107 million and $108 million, respectively.            Income from investment tax credits on leveraged leases and initial direct costs and executory costs on direct finance leases
were not significant during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005.            As discussed further in Note 14.  Income Taxes , the Internal Revenue Service has disallowed benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999.                 Note 9.              Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements:             At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. s short-term borrowings and
related average interest rates consisted of the following:         
          At December 31,
2007, $2,205 million of short-term borrowings that PMI expects to remain outstanding at December 31, 2008 were reclassified as long-term debt.            The short-term borrowings at December 31, 2007 were all related to PMI. The fair values of Altria Group, Inc. s short-term borrowings at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, based upon current market interest rates, approximate the amounts disclosed above.            At December 31, 2007, ALG s debt ratings by major credit rating agencies were as follows:         

Short- term    
      
  Long- term    
      
  Outlook     
 
    Moody s   
      
  P-2  
      
  Baa1  
      
  Stable   
 
    Standard   Poor s   
      
  A-2  
      
  BBB  
      
  Stable   
 
    Fitch   
      
  F-2  
      
  BBB+  
      
  Stable   

As discussed in Note
5.  Acquisitions , the purchase price of the Sampoerna acquisition was primarily financed through a euro 4.5 billion bank credit facility arranged for PMI and its subsidiaries in May 2005, consisting of a euro 2.5 billion three-year term loan
facility (which, through repayments had been reduced to euro 1.5 billion) and a euro 2.0 billion five-year revolving credit facility. On December 4, 2007, PMI entered into new credit agreements consisting of a $3.0 billion five-year revolving
credit facility, a $1.0 billion three-year revolving credit facility and a euro 1.5 billion 364-day term loan facility. In addition, on December 4, 2007, PMI borrowed euro 1.5 billion under the new term loan facility to repay the debt
outstanding under its 2005 term loan facility. These facilities, which are not guaranteed by ALG, require PMI to maintain an earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) to interest ratio of not less than 3.5
to 1.0. At December 31, 2007, PMI s ratio calculated in accordance with the agreements was 44.6 to 1.0.            ALG has a 364-day revolving credit facility in the amount of $1.0 billion, which expires on March 27, 2008. In addition, ALG maintains a multi-year
credit facility in the amount of $4.0 billion, which expires April 15, 2010. The ALG facilities require the maintenance of an earnings to fixed charges ratio, as defined by the agreements, of not less than 2.5 to 1.0. At December 31, 2007,
the ratio calculated in accordance with the agreements was 19.6 to 1.0. After the effectiveness of the spin-off of PMI, ALG s multi-year credit facility will be reduced from $4.0 billion to $3.5 billion and the earnings to fixed charges ratio
will be replaced with a ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of not less than 4.0 to 1.0. In addition, the facility will then require the maintenance of a ratio of debt to EBITDA of not more than 2.5 to 1.0. If the PMI spin-off had occurred as of
December 31, 2007, the ratio of EBITDA to interest expense would have been 15.6 to 1.0, and the ratio of debt to EBITDA would have been 0.9 to 1.0.            ALG and PMI expect to continue to meet their respective covenants. These facilities do not include any credit rating triggers or any provisions that could
require the posting of collateral. The multi-year facilities enable the respective companies to reclassify short-term debt on a long-term basis.         
   63   

Exhibit 13          
   At December 31, 2007, credit lines for ALG and PMI, and the related activity, were as follows:
             ALG           
            PMI           
          In addition to the
above, certain international subsidiaries of PMI maintain credit lines to meet their respective working capital needs. These credit lines, which amounted to approximately $2.6 billion are for the sole use of these international businesses.
Borrowings on these lines amounted to approximately $0.6 billion and $0.4 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            ALG does not guarantee the debt of PMI.                 Note 10.              Long-Term Debt:             At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt consisted of the following:         
          Included in Altria
Group, Inc. s long-term debt amounts above were the following amounts related to PMI at December 31, 2007 and 2006:         
          Aggregate maturities
of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt, excluding short-term borrowings reclassified as long-term debt, are as follows:         
       
   64   

Exhibit 13          
   Based on market quotes, where available, or interest rates currently available to Altria Group, Inc.
for issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities, the aggregate fair value of consumer products and financial services long-term debt, including the current portion of long-term debt, at December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $10.6
billion and $8.4 billion, respectively.            ALG does not guarantee
the debt of PMI.                 Note 11.              Capital Stock:             Shares of authorized common stock are 12 billion; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares were as follows:         
          At December 31,
2007, 77,491,184 shares of common stock were reserved for stock options and other stock awards under Altria Group, Inc. s stock plans, and 10 million shares of Serial Preferred Stock, $1.00 par value, were authorized, none of which have
been issued.                 Note 12.              Stock Plans:             Under the Altria Group, Inc. 2005 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2005 Plan ), Altria Group, Inc. may grant to eligible employees
stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, deferred stock, and other stock-based awards, as well as cash-based annual and long-term incentive awards. Up to 50 million shares of common stock may be issued under the 2005 Plan. In
addition, Altria Group, Inc. may grant up to one million shares of common stock to members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of Altria Group, Inc. under the 2005 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  2005
Directors Plan ). At December 31, 2007, options to purchase 29,536,591 shares of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock were outstanding. Shares available to be granted under the 2005 Plan and the 2005 Directors Plan at December 31,
2007 were 43,360,958 and 945,798, respectively.            As more fully
described in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , certain modifications were made to stock options, restricted stock and deferred stock as a result of the Kraft spin-off.            Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options to employees since 2002. Under certain circumstances, senior executives who
exercised outstanding stock options using shares to pay the option exercise price and taxes received EOSOs equal to the number of shares tendered. EOSOs were granted at an exercise price of not less than fair market value on the date of the grant,
and became exercisable six months after the grant date. This feature ceased during 2007.             Stock Option Plan             In connection with
the Kraft spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. employee stock options were modified through the issuance of Kraft employee stock options and the adjustment of the stock option exercise prices for the Altria Group, Inc. awards. For each employee stock option
outstanding the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately after the spin-off was not greater than the aggregate intrinsic value of the option immediately before the spin-off. Due to the fact that the Black-Scholes fair values of the awards
immediately before and immediately after the spin-off were equivalent, as measured in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 123(R), no incremental compensation expense was recorded as a result of the modification of the Altria Group, Inc.
awards.                Pre-tax compensation cost and the related tax
benefit for stock option awards totaled $9 million and $3 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2007. Pre-tax compensation cost and the related tax benefit for stock option awards totaled $17 million and $6 million,
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2006. The fair value of the awards was determined using a modified Black-Scholes methodology using the following weighted average assumptions:         
       
   65   

Exhibit 13          
   Altria Group, Inc. stock option activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2007:
        
          As more fully
described in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , the weighted average exercise prices shown in the table above were reduced as a result of the Kraft spin-off.            The aggregate intrinsic value shown in the table above was based on the December 31, 2007 closing price for Altria
Group, Inc. s common stock of $75.58. The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $15.55, $14.53 and $14.41, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options
exercised during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $454 million, $456 million and $756 million, respectively.             Restricted Stock Plans             Altria Group, Inc. may grant shares of restricted stock and deferred stock to eligible employees, giving them in most instances all of the rights of stockholders, except that they may not sell, assign, pledge or
otherwise encumber such shares. Such shares are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met. Restricted and deferred stock generally vests on the third anniversary of the grant date.            The fair value of the restricted shares and deferred shares at the date of
grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period, which is generally three years. Altria Group, Inc. recorded pre-tax compensation expense related to restricted stock and deferred stock for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005 of $135 million, $114 million and $115 million, respectively. The deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was $50 million, $42 million and $42 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005, respectively. The pre-tax compensation expense for the year ended December 31, 2006 includes the pre-tax cumulative effect gain of $5 million from the adoption of SFAS No. 123(R). The unamortized compensation expense related to
Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock was $163 million at December 31, 2007 and is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of 2 years.            Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock activity was as follows for the year ended December 31, 2007:
        
              In January
2007, Altria Group, Inc. issued 1.7 million shares of deferred stock to eligible U.S.-based and non-U.S. employees. Restrictions on these shares lapse in the first quarter of 2010. The market value per share was $87.36 on the date of grant.
Recipients of these Altria Group, Inc. deferred shares did not receive restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft upon the Kraft spin-off. Rather, they received 0.6 million additional deferred shares of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the
intrinsic value of the original award, and accordingly, the grant date fair value per share, in the table above, related to this grant was reduced.            The grant price information for restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007 reflects historical market prices which are not
adjusted to reflect the Kraft spin-off. As discussed more fully in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , as a result of the Kraft spin-off, holders of restricted stock and deferred stock awarded prior to January 31, 2007 retained
their existing award and received restricted stock or deferred stock of Kraft Class A common stock.            The weighted average grant date fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock granted during the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005 was $150 million, $146 million and $137 million, respectively, or $65.62, $74.21 and $62.05 per restricted or deferred share, respectively. The total fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock vested
during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was $184 million, $215 million and $4 million, respectively.                 Note 13.              Earnings per Share:             Basic and diluted EPS from continuing and discontinued operations were calculated using the following:         
          For the 2007
computation, there were no antidilutive stock options. For the 2006 and 2005 computations, the number of stock options excluded from the calculation of weighted average shares for diluted EPS because their effects were antidilutive was immaterial.
        
   66   

Exhibit 13          
        Note 14.        
      Income Taxes:             Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, and equity earnings and minority interest, net, and provision for income taxes consisted of the following for the
years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
          At December 31,
2007, applicable United States federal income taxes and foreign withholding taxes have not been provided on approximately $11 billion of accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are expected to be permanently reinvested.            The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) concluded its examination of
Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. Altria Group, Inc. agreed with the RAR, with the exception of certain
leasing matters discussed below. Consequently, in March 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded non-cash tax benefits of $1.0 billion, which principally represented the reversal of tax reserves following the issuance of and agreement with the RAR. Altria
Group, Inc. reimbursed $337 million in cash to Kraft for its portion of the $1.0 billion in tax benefits, as well as pre-tax interest of $46 million. The amounts related to Kraft were reclassified to earnings from discontinued operations. The tax
reversal resulted in an increase to earnings from continuing operations of $631 million for the year ended December 31, 2006.                Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC
leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to
them. The IRS may in the future challenge and disallow more of PMCC s leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and
sale-in/lease-out ( SILO ) transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases
are factually and legally distinguishable in material respects from the IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC
filed a complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the
payment of significant amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria
Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FIN 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.            In October 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act ( the Jobs Act ) was signed into law. The Jobs Act includes a deduction for 85% of certain
foreign earnings that are repatriated. In 2005, Altria Group, Inc. repatriated $5.5 billion of earnings under the provisions of the Jobs Act. Deferred taxes had previously been provided for a portion of the dividends remitted. The reversal of the
deferred taxes more than offset the tax costs to repatriate the earnings and resulted in a net tax reduction of $344 million in the 2005 consolidated income tax provision.       
     Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. subsidiaries join in the filing of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return. The U.S. federal statute
of limitations remains open for the year 2000 and onward with years 2000 to 2003 currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ). Foreign and U.S. state jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from
3 to 5 years. Years still open to examination by foreign tax authorities in major jurisdictions include Germany (2002 onward), Indonesia (2000 onward), Russia (2005 onward), and Switzerland (2005 onward). Altria Group, Inc. is currently under
examination in various U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions.            As previously discussed in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies , on January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FIN 48. As a result of the January 1, 2007 adoption of FIN 48, Altria Group,
Inc. lowered its liability for unrecognized tax benefits by $1,021 million. This resulted in an increase to stockholders  equity of $857 million ($835 million, net of minority interest), a reduction of Kraft s goodwill of $85 million and a
reduction of federal deferred tax benefits of $79 million.            A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:         

(in millions)                

Balance at January 1, 2007   
      
  $  
  1,053  

Additions based on tax positions related to the current year   

70  

Additions for tax positions of prior years   

22  

Reductions for tax positions of prior years   

(28  
  )   
 
    Reductions for tax positions due to lapse of statutes of limitations   

(116  
  )   
 
    Settlements   

(21  
  )   
 
    Reduction of state and foreign unrecognized tax benefits due to Kraft spin-off   

(365  
  )   

Balance at December 31, 2007   
      
   $   
   615   

67   

Exhibit 13          
   Unrecognized tax benefits and Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated liability for tax contingencies
were as follows:         
          The amount of
unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at December 31, 2007 was $279 million, along with $66 million affecting deferred taxes and the remainder of $270 million affecting the receivable from Kraft
discussed below. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at January 1, 2007 was $848 million, with the remaining $205 million affecting deferred taxes.            Altria Group, Inc. s unrecognized tax benefits decreased to $615 million
as of December 31, 2007, principally due to the spin-off of Kraft, as well as the expiration of statutes of limitations and audit closures in U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. For the year ended December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc.
recognized in its consolidated statement of earnings $13 million of interest and penalties.            Under the Tax Sharing Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft, Kraft is responsible for its own pre-spin-off tax obligations. However, due to regulations governing the U.S. federal consolidated tax return,
Altria Group, Inc. remains severally liable for Kraft s pre-spin-off federal taxes. As a result, Altria Group, Inc. continues to include $270 million of Kraft s unrecognized tax benefits in its liability for uncertain tax positions, and a
corresponding receivable from Kraft of $270 million is included in other assets.            Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision. As of January 1, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. had $292 million of accrued interest
and penalties of which approximately $125 million related to Kraft. The accrued interest and penalties decreased to $267 million at December 31, 2007, principally as a result of the Kraft spin-off, and the expiration of statutes of limitations
and audit closures in U.S. state and foreign jurisdictions. This amount includes $88 million of Kraft federal interest for which Kraft is responsible under the Tax Sharing Agreement. The receivable from Kraft, which is included in other assets,
includes related accrued interest and penalties.            It is
reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain U.S. state and foreign examinations will be resolved, which could result in a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits, and interest and penalties of approximately $40 million and $12 million,
respectively.            As previously discussed in Note 2.  Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies , Altria Group, Inc. adopted the provisions of FAS 13-2 effective January 1, 2007. The adoption of FAS 13-2 resulted in a reduction to stockholders  equity of $124 million as of January 1, 2007.
           The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings differed
from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
          The tax provision in
2007 includes net tax benefits of $111 million related to the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest resulting from the expiration of statutes of limitations ($55 million in the third quarter and $56 million in the fourth quarter) and $42
million related to the reduction of deferred tax liabilities resulting from future lower tax rates enacted in Germany in the third quarter. The tax provision in 2007 also includes the reversal of tax accruals of $98 million no longer required in the
fourth quarter. The tax provision in 2006 includes $631 million of non-cash tax benefits principally representing the reversal of tax reserves after the U.S. IRS concluded its examination of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated tax returns for the
years 1996 through 1999 in the first quarter of 2006. The 2006 rate also includes the reversal of foreign tax reserves no longer required at PMI of $105 million in the fourth quarter. The tax provision in 2005 includes a $344 million benefit related
to dividend repatriation under the Jobs Act in 2005, as well as other benefits, including the impact of the domestic manufacturers  deduction under the Jobs Act and lower repatriation costs.         
   68   

Exhibit 13          
   The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to consumer products deferred income tax
assets and liabilities consisted of the following at December 31, 2007 and 2006:         
          Financial services
deferred income tax liabilities are primarily attributable to temporary differences relating to net investments in finance leases.                 Note 15.              Segment Reporting:             The products of ALG s subsidiaries include cigarettes and other tobacco products sold in the United States by PM USA and John Middleton, Inc., and outside of the United States by PMI. PMI s operations are
organized and managed by geographic region. Another subsidiary of ALG, PMCC, maintains a portfolio of leveraged and direct finance leases.            As discussed in Note 1.  Background and Basis of Presentation , beginning with the second quarter of 2007, Altria Group, Inc. revised its reportable
segments. Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are U.S. tobacco; European Union; Eastern Europe, Middle East and Africa; Asia; Latin America; and Financial Services.            Altria Group, Inc. s management reviews operating companies income to evaluate segment performance and allocate
resources. Operating companies income for the segments excludes general corporate expenses and amortization of intangibles. Interest and other debt expense, net (consumer products), and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the ALG
level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s management. Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because
such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker. Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in Note 2.  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies . The accounting
policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note 2.            Segment data are as follows:         
          Items affecting the
comparability of results from continuing operations were as follows:                   Loss on U.S. Tobacco Pool       As further discussed in Note 19.  Contingencies , in October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed
into law. Under the provisions of FETRA, PM USA was obligated to cover its share of potential losses that the government may incur on the disposition of pool tobacco stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support program. In 2005, PM USA
recorded a $138 million expense for its share of the loss.                   U.S. Tobacco Quota Buy-Out     The provisions of FETRA require PM USA, along with other manufacturers and importers of tobacco products, to make quarterly payments that will be used to
compensate tobacco growers and quota holders affected by the legislation. Payments made by PM USA under FETRA offset amounts due under the provisions of the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust ( NTGST ), a trust formerly established
to compensate tobacco growers and quota holders. Disputes arose as to the applicability of FETRA to 2004 NTGST payments. During the third quarter of 2005, a North Carolina Supreme Court ruling determined that FETRA enactment had not triggered the
offset provisions during 2004 and that tobacco  
       
   69   

Exhibit 13          
  
 companies were required to make full payment to the NTGST for the full year of 2004. The ruling, along with FETRA billings from the United States Department
of Agriculture ( USDA ), established that FETRA was effective beginning in 2005. Accordingly, during the third quarter of 2005, PM USA reversed a 2004 accrual for FETRA payments in the amount of $115 million.                   Italian Antitrust Charge    
During the first quarter of 2006, PMI recorded a $61 million charge related to an Italian antitrust action. This charge was included in the operating companies income of the European Union segment.                   Inventory Sale in Italy     
 During the first quarter of 2005, PMI made a one-time inventory sale to its new distributor in Italy, resulting in a $96 million pre-tax benefit to operating companies income for the European Union segment. During the second quarter of 2005, the
new distributor reduced its inventories, resulting in lower shipments for PMI. The net impact of these actions was a benefit to the European Union segment pre-tax operating companies income of approximately $70 million for the year ended
December 31, 2005.                   Asset Impairment and Exit Costs       See Note 3.  Asset Impairment and Exit Costs , for a breakdown of these charges by segment.                   Gain on Sale of Business    
During 2006, operating companies income of the Latin America segment included a pre-tax gain of $488 million related to the exchange of PMI s interest in a beer business for 100% ownership of a cigarette business in the Dominican Republic. See
Note 5.  Acquisitions .                   Recoveries/Provision from/for Airline Industry Exposure     As discussed in Note 8.  Finance Assets, net , during 2007, PMCC recorded pre-tax gains of $214 million on the sale of its
ownership interests and bankruptcy claims in certain leveraged lease investments in aircraft, which represented a partial recovery, in cash, of amounts that had been previously written down. During 2006, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by
$103 million, due to issues within the airline industry. During 2005, PMCC increased its allowance for losses by $200 million, reflecting its exposure to the airline industry, particularly Delta and Northwest, both of which filed for bankruptcy
protection during 2005.            See Notes 4 and 5, respectively,
regarding divestitures and acquisitions.         
          Total tobacco segment
net revenues attributable to customers located in Germany, Altria Group, Inc. s largest international market, were $8.0 billion, $7.7 billion and $7.6 billion for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.   
        Geographic data for net revenues and long-lived assets (which consist of
all financial services assets and non-current consumer products assets, other than goodwill, other intangible assets, net, and assets of discontinued operations) were as follows:         
               Note 16.
             Benefit Plans:             In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158,  Employers  Accounting for
Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans  ( SFAS No. 158 ). SFAS No. 158 requires that employers recognize the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated
balance sheet and record as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. Altria Group, Inc. adopted the
recognition and related disclosure provisions of SFAS No. 158, prospectively, on December 31, 2006.         
   70   

Exhibit 13          
   SFAS No. 158 also requires an entity to measure plan assets and benefit obligations as of the
date of its fiscal year-end statement of financial position for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. Altria Group, Inc. s non-U.S. pension plans are measured at September 30 of each year. Subsidiaries of PMI will adopt the
measurement date provision in 2008 and will record the impact of the measurement date change, which is not expected to be significant, as an adjustment to retained earnings.            The incremental effect of applying SFAS No. 158 on individual line items in the consolidated balance sheet at
December 31, 2006 was as follows:         
          The amounts recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive earnings/ losses at December 31, 2007 consisted of the following:         
          The amounts recorded
in accumulated other comprehensive earnings/ losses at December 31, 2006 consisted of the following:         
          The movements in other
comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended December 31, 2007 were as follows:         
       
   71   

Exhibit 13          
   Altria Group, Inc. sponsors noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all
U.S. employees. Pension coverage for employees of ALG s non-U.S. subsidiaries is provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans, many of which are governed by local statutory requirements. In addition, ALG and its U.S.
subsidiaries provide health care and other benefits to substantially all retired employees. Health care benefits for retirees outside the United States are generally covered through local government plans.            The plan assets and benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s U.S.
pension plans are measured at December 31 of each year, and all other non-U.S. pension plans are measured at September 30 of each year. The benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement plans are measured at
December 31 of each year.              Pension Plans               Obligations and Funded Status             The benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of Altria Group, Inc. s pension
plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:         
          The combined U.S. and
non-U.S. pension plans resulted in a net prepaid pension asset of $0.9 billion at December 31, 2007 and $0.2 billion at December 31, 2006. These amounts were recognized in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets at
December 31, 2007 and 2006, as follows:         
          The accumulated
benefit obligation, which represents benefits earned to date, for the U.S. pension plans was $4.6 billion and $4.7 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The accumulated benefit obligation for non-U.S. pension plans was $3.0
billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.            For U.S. plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets were $211 million, $145 million and $2
million, respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and $219 million, $183 million and $4 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2006. The majority of these relate to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under I.R.S.
regulations. For non-U.S. plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets were $217 million, $200 million and $45 million,
respectively, as of December 31, 2007, and $185 million, $165 million and $42 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2006. The majority of these plans cannot be funded under local tax regulations.            The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria
Group, Inc. s benefit obligations under the plans at December 31:         
          The discount rates for
Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. plans were developed from a model portfolio of high-quality, fixed-income debt instruments with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations. The discount rates for Altria Group,
Inc. s non-U.S. plans were developed from local bond indices that match local benefit obligations as closely as possible.             Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost             Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
          During 2007, PM
USA s announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, and workforce reduction programs resulted in curtailment losses and termination benefits of $37 million. This curtailment prompted a revaluation of the U.S. plans
at a discount rate of 6.3%, resulting  
       
   72   

Exhibit 13          
  
 in an increase in prepaid pension assets of approximately $500 million and a corresponding increase, net of income taxes, to stockholders  equity.
During 2006 and 2005, employees left Altria Group, Inc. under voluntary early retirement and workforce reduction programs. These events resulted in settlement losses, curtailment losses and termination benefits for the U.S. plans in 2006 and 2005 of
$15 million and $9 million, respectively. Non-U.S. early retirement benefits resulted in additional termination benefits of $42 million, $2 million and $2 million during 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.            The amounts included in termination, settlement and curtailment in the table
above for the year ended December 31, 2007 were comprised of the following changes:         
          For the combined U.S.
and non-U.S. pension plans, the estimated net loss and prior service cost that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net periodic benefit cost during 2008 are $73 million and $14 million, respectively.
           The following weighted-average assumptions were used to
determine Altria Group, Inc. s net pension cost for the years ended December 31:         
          Altria Group,
Inc. s expected rate of return on plan assets is determined by the plan assets  historical long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class.            ALG and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor deferred profit-sharing plans
covering certain salaried, non-union and union employees. Contributions and costs are determined generally as a percentage of pre-tax earnings, as defined by the plans. Certain other subsidiaries of ALG also maintain defined contribution plans.
Amounts charged to expense for defined contribution plans totaled $150 million, $163 million and $162 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.             Plan Assets             The percentage of fair value of pension plan assets at December 31, 2007 and 2006, was as follows:         
          Altria Group,
Inc. s investment strategy is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term. Accordingly, the composition of Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. plan assets is broadly characterized as a 70%/30%
allocation between equity and debt securities. Beginning in 2008, Altria Group, Inc. decided to change the allocation between equity and debt securities to 55%/45%, reflecting the impact of the changing demographic mix of plan participants on
benefit obligations. The strategy utilizes indexed U.S. equity securities, actively managed international equity securities and actively managed investment grade debt securities (which constitute 80% or more of debt securities) with lesser
allocations to high-yield and international debt securities.            For the plans outside the U.S., the investment strategy is subject to local regulations and the asset/liability profiles of the plans in each individual country. These specific circumstances result in a level of equity exposure that is
typically less than the U.S. plans. In aggregate, the actual asset allocations of the non-U.S. plans are virtually identical to their respective asset policy targets.            Altria Group, Inc. attempts to mitigate investment risk by rebalancing between equity and debt asset classes as Altria
Group, Inc. s contributions and monthly benefit payments are made.            Altria Group, Inc. presently makes, and plans to make, contributions, to the extent that they are tax deductible and do not generate an excise tax liability, in order to maintain plan assets in excess of the accumulated benefit obligation
of its funded U.S. and non-U.S. plans. Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making contributions of $16 million in 2008 to its U.S. plans and approximately $97 million in 2008 to its non-U.S. plans, based on current tax law. However, these
estimates are subject to change as a result of changes in tax and other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates.            The estimated future benefit payments from the Altria Group, Inc. pension
plans at December 31, 2007, were as follows:         
       
   73   

Exhibit 13          
     Postretirement Benefit Plans              Net postretirement health care costs consisted of the following for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
          During 2007, Altria
Group, Inc. had curtailment gains related to PM USA s announced closure of its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility, which are included in other (income) expense, above. During 2006 and 2005, Altria Group, Inc. instituted early
retirement programs. These actions resulted in special termination benefits and curtailment losses in 2006 and 2005, which are included in other (income) expense, above.       
     The amounts included in other (income) expense in the table above for the year ended December 31, 2007 were comprised of the following
changes:         

(in millions)                
      
   2007     

Accumulated postretirement health care costs   
      
   $   
   (29   
   )    
 
    Other comprehensive earnings/losses:   

Net losses   

33   

Prior service credit   

(6   
   )    

Other income   
      
   $   
   (2   
   )    

For the postretirement
benefit plans, the estimated net loss and prior service credit that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net postretirement health care costs during 2008 are $24 million and $(9) million, respectively.
           The following weighted-average assumptions were used to
determine Altria Group, Inc. s net postretirement cost for the years ended December 31:         
          Altria Group,
Inc. s postretirement health care plans are not funded. The changes in the accumulated benefit obligation and net amount accrued at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:         
          The current portion of
Altria Group, Inc. s accrued postretirement health care costs of $117 million and $104 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, is included in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets.            The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s
postretirement benefit obligations at December 31:         
          Assumed health care
cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects as of December 31, 2007:         

One-Percentage- Point Increase    
     
  One-Percentage- Point Decrease     
 
    Effect on total of service and interest cost   
      
  11.2%  
     
  (10.6)%   
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   
      
  9.9  
     
  (8.2)   

Altria Group,
Inc. s estimated future benefit payments for its postretirement health care plans at December 31, 2007, were as follows:         
            Postemployment Benefit Plans
             ALG and certain of its subsidiaries sponsor postemployment benefit
plans covering substantially all salaried and certain hourly employees. The cost these plans is charged to expense over the working life of the covered employees. Net postemployment costs consisted of the following for the years ended
December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005:         
          As discussed in Note
3.  Asset Impairment and Exit Costs , certain employees left Altria Group, Inc. under separation programs. These programs resulted in incremental postemployment costs, which are included in other expense, above.            For the postemployment benefit plans, the estimated net loss that is expected
to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income into net postemployment costs during 2008 is approximately $20 million.         
   74   

Exhibit 13          
   Altria Group, Inc. s postemployment plans are not funded. The changes in the benefit obligations
of the plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006, were as follows:         
          The accrued
postemployment costs were determined using a discount rate of 8.1% and 7.9% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, an assumed ultimate annual turnover rate of 2.2% and 1.8% in 2007 and 2006, respectively, assumed compensation cost increases of 4.5% in 2007
and 2006, and assumed benefits as defined in the respective plans. Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.                 Note 17.              Additional Information:             The amounts shown below are for continuing operations.         
          Minimum rental
commitments under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at December 31, 2007, were as follows:         
               Note 18.
             Financial Instruments:    
             Derivative Financial Instruments:  ALG s
subsidiaries operate globally, with manufacturing and sales facilities in various locations around the world. ALG and its subsidiaries utilize certain financial instruments to manage foreign currency exposures. Derivative financial instruments are
used by ALG and its subsidiaries, principally to reduce exposures to market risks resulting from fluctuations in foreign exchange rates by creating offsetting exposures. Altria Group, Inc. is not a party to leveraged derivatives and, by policy, does
not use derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting must maintain a specified level of effectiveness between the hedging instrument and the item being hedged, both at inception and
throughout the hedged period. Altria Group, Inc. formally documents the nature and relationships between the hedging instruments and hedged items, as well as its risk-management objectives, strategies for undertaking the various hedge transactions
and method of assessing hedge effectiveness. Additionally, for hedges of forecasted transactions, the significant characteristics and expected terms of the forecasted transaction must be specifically identified, and it must be probable that each
forecasted transaction will occur. If it were deemed probable that the forecasted transaction will not occur, the gain or loss would be recognized in earnings currently.       
     Altria Group, Inc. uses forward foreign exchange contracts, foreign currency swaps and foreign currency options to mitigate its exposure to
changes in exchange rates from third-party and intercompany, actual and forecasted transactions. The primary currencies to which Altria Group, Inc. is exposed include the Japanese yen, Swiss franc, euro, Turkish lira, Russian ruble and Indonesian
rupiah. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. had contracts with aggregate notional amounts of $6.9 billion and $3.2 billion, respectively, of which $6.9 billion and $3.1 billion, respectively, were at PMI. The effective portion of
unrealized gains and losses associated with qualifying contracts is deferred as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) until the underlying hedged transactions are reported on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated
statement of earnings. A portion of Altria Group, Inc. s foreign currency swaps, while effective as economic hedges, do not qualify for hedge accounting and therefore the unrealized gain (loss) relating to these contracts are reported in Altria
Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, the unrealized gain (loss) with regard to the contracts that do not qualify for hedge accounting was insignificant.            In addition, Altria Group, Inc. uses foreign currency swaps to mitigate its
exposure to changes in exchange rates related to foreign currency denominated debt. These swaps typically convert fixed-rate foreign currency denominated debt to fixed-rate debt denominated in the functional currency of the borrowing entity, and are
accounted for as cash flow hedges. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the notional amounts of foreign currency swap agreements aggregated $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively.            Altria Group, Inc. also designates certain foreign currency denominated debt and forwards as net investment hedges of
foreign operations. During the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, these hedges of net investments resulted in losses, net of income taxes, of $45 million and $164 million, respectively, and during the year ended December 31, 2005
resulted in a gain, net of income taxes, of $369 million. These gains and losses were         
   75   

Exhibit 13          
   reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) within currency translation adjustments.
           During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005,
ineffectiveness related to fair value hedges and cash flow hedges was not material. Altria Group, Inc. is hedging forecasted transactions for periods not exceeding the next twelve months. At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. expects an
insignificant amount of gains reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) to be reclassified to the consolidated statement of earnings within the next twelve months.            Derivative gains or losses reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) are a result of qualifying hedging
activity. Transfers of gains or losses from accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) to earnings are offset by the corresponding gains or losses on the underlying hedged item. Hedging activity affected accumulated other comprehensive
earnings (losses), net of income taxes, during the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, as follows:         
              Credit exposure and credit risk:  Altria Group, Inc. is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. Altria Group, Inc. does not anticipate nonperformance within its consumer products
businesses. However, see Note 8.  Finance Assets ,  net  regarding certain leases.                 Fair value:  The aggregate fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt at December 31, 2007, was $11.3 billion, as compared with its
carrying value of $11.0 billion. The aggregate fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt at December 31, 2006, was $8.8 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $8.5 billion.            The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc. s equity
investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2007, was $12.1 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $4.0 billion. The fair value, based on market quotes, of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2006,
was $9.9 billion, as compared with its carrying value of $3.7 billion.            In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157  Fair Value Measurements,  which will be effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. This statement defines fair value,
establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. Altria Group, Inc. anticipates that the adoption of this statement will not have a material impact on its financial statements.            See Notes 9 and 10 for additional disclosures of fair value for short-term
borrowings and long-term debt.                 Note 19.
             Contingencies:             Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various
United States and foreign jurisdictions against ALG, its subsidiaries and affiliates, including PM USA and PMI, as well as their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer
protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors.         
   Overview of Tobacco-Related Litigation                  Types and Number of Cases:  Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking
and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be
brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental
(both domestic and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms
 Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO ), and (v) other tobacco-related
litigation described below. Damages claimed in some of the tobacco-related litigation are significant, and in certain cases, range into the billions of dollars. The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual
experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome. Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking
and health, health care cost recovery and Lights/Ultra Lights cases are discussed below.         
   76   

Exhibit 13         
   The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related cases pending in the United States
against PM USA and, in some instances, ALG or PMI, as of December 31, 2007, December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and a page-reference to further discussions of each type of case.         

(1)  
  Does not include 2,622 cases brought by flight attendants seeking compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke
( ETS ). The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action, which was settled in 1997. The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual lawsuits
seeking compensatory damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages. Also, does not include nine individual smoking and health cases brought against certain retailers that are indemnitees of PM USA. Additionally, does not include
approximately 1,282 individual smoking and health cases brought by or on behalf of approximately 7,266 plaintiffs in Florida following the decertification of the  Engle  case discussed below. It is possible that additional cases have been filed
but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets.           

(2)  
  Includes as one case the aggregated claims of 728 individuals (of which 414 individuals have claims against PM USA) that are proposed to be tried in a single proceeding in West
Virginia. The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals has ruled that the United States Constitution does not preclude a trial in two phases in this case. Issues related to defendants  conduct, plaintiffs  entitlement to punitive damages and
a punitive damages multiplier, if any, would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual trials to determine liability, if any, and compensatory damages. In November 2007, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals
denied defendants  renewed motion for review of the trial plan. In December 2007, defendants filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court.              There are also a number of other tobacco-related actions pending outside the
United States against PMI and its affiliates and subsidiaries, including an estimated 133 individual smoking and health cases as of December 31, 2007 (Argentina (57), Australia (2), Brazil (51), Chile (12), Costa Rica (1), Greece (1), Italy
(4), the Philippines (1), Poland (3) and Scotland (1)), compared with approximately 133 such cases on December 31, 2006, and approximately 132 such cases on December 31, 2005. In addition, in Italy, 2,026 cases are pending in the
Italian equivalent of small claims court where damages are limited to  2,000 per case, and three cases are pending in Finland against an indemnitee of a subsidiary of PMI.            In addition, as of December 31, 2007, there were three smoking and health putative class actions pending outside the
United States against PMI or its affiliates in Brazil (2) and Israel (1) compared with two such cases on December 31, 2006, and two such cases on December 31, 2005. The case in Israel was dismissed in January 2008. Eight health
care cost recovery actions are pending in Nigeria (5), Israel (1), Canada (1) and Spain (1), against PMI or its affiliates, and two Lights/Ultra Lights class actions are pending in Israel. PM USA is also a named defendant in the smoking and
health putative class action in Israel, a  Lights  class action in Israel and health care cost recovery actions in Israel and Canada.                Also, as of December 31, 2007, there were nine  public civil actions  pending outside the United States against PMI or its
affiliates in Argentina (1), Brazil (3), Colombia (4), and Turkey (1) compared with three such actions on December 31, 2006, and one such action on December 31, 2005. Public civil actions are claims filed either by an individual, or a
public or private entity, seeking to protect a variety of collective or individual rights. Plaintiffs in these cases seek various forms of relief including injunctive relief such as banning cigarettes, descriptors, smoking in certain places and
advertising, as well as implementing communication campaigns and reimbursement of medical expenses incurred by public or private institutions.                  Pending and Upcoming Trials:  On November 16, 2007, the jury in a flight attendant litigation found in favor of
the defendants. In addition, as of December 31, 2007, 11 individual smoking and health cases against PM USA are scheduled for trial through the end of 2008. Cases against other tobacco companies are also scheduled for trial through the end of
2008. Trial dates are subject to change.                  Recent Trial Results:  Since January 1999, verdicts have been returned in 45 smoking and health, Lights/Ultra Lights and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor
of PM USA and other defendants were returned in 28 of the 45 cases. These 28 cases were tried in California (4), Florida (9), Mississippi (1), Missouri (2), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (3), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island
(1), Tennessee (2), and West Virginia (1). Plaintiffs  appeals or post-trial motions challenging the verdicts are pending in California, the District of Columbia and Florida. A motion for a new trial has been granted in one of the cases in
Florida. In addition, in December 2002, a court dismissed an individual smoking and health case in California at the end of trial.            In July 2005, a jury in Tennessee returned a verdict in favor of PM USA in a case in which plaintiffs had challenged PM USA s retail promotional and
merchandising programs under the Robinson-Patman Act.            Of the
17 cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs, eight have reached final resolution. A verdict against defendants in a health care cost recovery case has been reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice. In addition, a
verdict against defendants in a purported Lights class action in Illinois has been reversed and the case has been dismissed with prejudice. After exhausting all appeals, PM USA has paid six judgments totaling $71,826,707, and interest totaling
$33,806,665.               
   77   

Exhibit 13          
   The chart below lists the verdicts and post-trial developments in the nine pending cases that have
gone to trial since January 1999 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs.         

Date    
      
    Location of     Court/Name     of Plaintiff    
      
    Type of Case    
      
    Verdict    
      
    Post-Trial Developments     
 
  May 2007  
      
  California/ Whiteley   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  Approximately $2.5 million in compensatory damages against PM USA and the other defendant in the case, as well as $250,000 in punitive damages against the other defendant in the
case.  
      
  In July 2007, the trial court granted plaintiff s motion for a limited re-trial against PM USA on the question of whether plaintiffs are entitled to punitive damages against PM USA, and if
so, the amount. On October 31, 2007, the jury found that plaintiffs are not entitled to punitive damages against PM USA. In November, the trial court entered final judgment and PM USA filed a motion for a new trial and for judgment notwithstanding
the verdict. The trial court rejected these motions on January 24, 2008. Defendants intend to appeal.   

August 2006  
      
  District of Columbia/ United States of America   
      
  Health Care Cost Recovery  
      
  Finding that defendants, including ALG and PM USA, violated the civil provisions of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO). No monetary damages assessed, but court made
specific findings and issued injunctions. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.  
      
  Defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States Court of Appeals in September 2006 and the Department of Justice filed its notice of appeal in October. In October 2006, a three-judge
panel of the Court of Appeals stayed implementation of the trial court s remedies order pending its review of the decision. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part defendants  post-trial motion for clarification
of portions of the court s remedial order. Briefing of the parties  consolidated appeal is scheduled to conclude in May 2008. See  Federal Government s Lawsuit  below.   

March 2005  
      
  New York/ Rose   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $3.42 million in compensatory damages against two defendants, including PM USA, and $17.1 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  PM USA s appeal is pending.   

May 2004  
      
  Louisiana/ Scott   
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  Approximately $590 million against all defendants, including PM USA, jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.  
      
  In June 2004, the state trial court entered judgment in the amount of the verdict of $590 million, plus prejudgment interest accruing from the date the suit commenced. As of February 15, 2007,
the amount of prejudgment interest was approximately $444 million. PM USA s share of the verdict and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed. In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal upheld the
class certification and finding of liability, but reduced the judgment by approximately $312 million and vacated the award of prejudgment interest. The Court of Appeal also remanded the case to the trial court with instructions to further reduce the
remaining $279 million judgment to eliminate amounts awarded to any individual who began smoking after the Louisiana Product Liability Act became effective on September 1, 1988. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal rejected defendants 
motion for rehearing and clarification. Plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for writ of certiorari with the Louisiana Supreme Court were denied in January 2008. Following this denial, PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in
connection with the case. See  Scott   Class Action  below.   
             
   78   

Exhibit 13          

Date    
      
    Location of Court/Name of Plaintiff    
      
    Type of Case    
      
    Verdict    
      
    Post-Trial Developments     

October 2002  
      
  California/ Bullock   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $850,000 in compensatory damages and $28 billion in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  On January 30, 2008, the California Court of Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the
case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive damages. See discussion   (      1)    below.   

June 2002  
      
  Florida/ Lukacs   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $37.5 million in compensatory damages against all defendants, including PM USA.  
      
  In March 2003, the trial court reduced the damages award to $24.86 million. PM USA s share of the damages award is approximately $6 million. The court has not yet entered the judgment on
the jury verdict. In January 2007, defendants petitioned the trial court to set aside the jury s verdict and dismiss plaintiffs  punitive damages claim. On August 1, 2007, the trial court deferred ruling on plaintiff s motion for
entry of judgment until after the United States Supreme Court s review of  Engle  is complete and after further submissions by the parties. If a judgment is entered in this case, PM USA intends to appeal.   

March 2002  
      
  Oregon/ Schwarz   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $168,500 in compensatory damages and $150 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  In May 2002, the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $100 million. In May 2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of
punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. In June 2006, plaintiff petitioned the Oregon Supreme Court to review the portion of the Court of Appeals 
decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages. In October 2006, the Oregon Supreme Court announced that it would hold this petition in abeyance until the United States Supreme Court decided the  Williams  case
discussed below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings consistent with its decision. The parties have submitted
their briefs to the Oregon Supreme Court setting forth their respective views on how the  Williams  decision impacts the plaintiff s pending petition for review.   
       
   79   

Exhibit 13          

Date    
      
    Location of Court/Name of Plaintiff    
      
    Type of Case    
      
    Verdict    
      
    Post-Trial Developments     

July 2000  
      
  Florida/ Engle   
      
  Smoking and Health Class Action  
      
  $145 billion in punitive damages against all defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA.  
      
  In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, that certain Phase I trial court findings
be allowed to stand as against the defendants in individual actions that individual former class members may bring within one year of the issuance of the mandate, compensatory damage awards totaling approximately $6.9 million to two individual class
members be reinstated and that a third former class member s claim was barred by the statute of limitations. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court denied all motions by the parties for rehearing but issued a revised opinion. In January
2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised December opinion and defendants filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting the court s review of legal errors previously raised but not ruled
upon. This motion was denied in February 2007. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Third District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a
petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. On October 1, 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for
rehearing from the denial of their petition for certiorari. See   Engle Class Action   below. As of the January 11, 2008 deadline for bringing an action approximately 1,282 individual smoking and health cases have been brought by or
on behalf of approximately 7,266 plaintiffs in Florida following the Florida Supreme Court s decertification decision. It is possible that additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets.   

March 1999  
      
  Oregon/ Williams   
      
  Individual Smoking and Health  
      
  $800,000 in compensatory damages, $21,500 in medical expenses and $79.5 million in punitive damages against PM USA.  
      
  See discussion   (      2)    below.   

(1)  
   Bullock:  In August 2006, the California Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition to overturn the trial court s reduction of the punitive damages award and granted
PM USA s petition for review challenging the punitive damages award. The court granted review of the case on a  grant and hold  basis under which further action by the court is deferred pending the United States Supreme Court s
decision on punitive damages in the  Williams  case described below. In February 2007, the United States Supreme Court vacated the punitive damages judgment in  Williams  and remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for proceedings
consistent with its decision. Parties to the appeal in  Bullock  requested that the court establish a briefing schedule on the merits of the pending appeal. In May 2007, the California Supreme Court transferred the case to the Second District
of the California Court of Appeal with directions that the court vacate its 2006 decision and reconsider the case in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams . On January 30, 2008, the California Court of
Appeal reversed the judgment with respect to the $28 million punitive damages award, affirmed the judgment in all other respects, and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a new trial on the amount of punitive damages.

(2)  
   Williams:  The trial court reduced the punitive damages award to $32 million, and PM USA and plaintiff appealed. In June 2002, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5
million punitive damages award. Following the Oregon Supreme Court s refusal to hear PM USA s appeal, PM USA recorded a provision of $32 million in connection with this case and petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further
review. In October 2003, the United States Supreme Court set aside the Oregon appellate court s ruling and directed the Oregon court to reconsider the case in light of the 2003  State Farm  decision by the United States Supreme Court,
which limited punitive damages. In June 2004, the Oregon Court of Appeals reinstated the $79.5 million punitive damages award. In February 2006, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Court of Appeals  decision. Following this decision, PM USA
recorded an additional provision of approximately $25 million in interest charges related to this case. The United States Supreme Court granted PM USA s petition for writ of certiorari in May 2006. In February 2007, the United States Supreme
Court vacated the $79.5 million punitive damages award, holding that the United States Constitution prohibits basing punitive damages awards on harm to non-parties. The Court also found that states must assure that appropriate procedures are in
place so that juries are provided with proper legal guidance as to the constitutional limitations on awards of punitive damages. Accordingly, the Court remanded the case to the Oregon Supreme Court for further proceedings consistent with this
decision. On January 31, 2008, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the Oregon Court of Appeals  June 2004 decision, which in turn, upheld the jury s compensatory damage award and reinstated the jury s award of $79.5 million in
punitive damages. PM USA intends to appeal.                 
   80   

Exhibit 13          
   In addition to the cases discussed above, in October 2003, a three-judge appellate panel in Brazil
reversed a lower court s dismissal of an individual smoking and health case and ordered PMI s Brazilian affiliate to pay plaintiff approximately $433,000 and other unspecified damages. PMI s Brazilian affiliate appealed. In December
2004, the three-judge panel s decision was vacated by an  en banc  panel of the appellate court, which upheld the trial court s dismissal of the case. The case is currently on appeal to the Superior Court.            With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, as of
December 31, 2007, PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately $193 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals. The cash deposits are included
in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets.              
    Engle Class Action:  In July 2000, in the second phase of the  Engle  smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately $145 billion against various
defendants, including $74 billion against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $100 million and appealed.            In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that execution of the punitive damages component of the  Engle  judgment will remain
stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review. As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed $500 million into a separate interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of
the judicial review, will be paid to the court and the court will determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure. In July 2001, PM USA also placed $1.2 billion into an interest-bearing escrow account,
which was returned to PM USA in December 2007. In addition, the $100 million bond related to the case has been discharged. The $1.2 billion escrow account and the deposit of $100 million related to the bonding requirement were included in the
December 31, 2006 consolidated balance sheet as other assets. Interest income on the $1.2 billion escrow account, prior to its return to PM USA, was paid to PM USA quarterly and was being recorded as earned in interest and other debt expense,
net, in the consolidated statements of earnings. In connection with the stipulation, PM USA recorded a $500 million pre-tax charge in its consolidated statement of earnings for the quarter ended March 31, 2001. In May 2003, the Florida Third
District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class. Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.            In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages
award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified, and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate. The court further declared the
following Phase I findings are entitled to  res judicata  effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is
addictive; (iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading
or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that all defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of
causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the
information to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that all defendants were negligent. The court also reinstated compensatory damage awards totaling approximately $6.9
million to two individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations.            In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that
certain jury findings have res judicata effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by  Engle  class members. The rehearing motion also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the
Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed. Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified
class. In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to res judicata effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to
misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations of fact made by defendants. On January 11, 2007, the Florida Supreme Court
issued the mandate from its revised opinion. Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed
either by the Third District or by the Florida Supreme Court. In February 2007, the Third District Court of Appeal denied defendants  motion. In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of
appellate review was denied by the District Court of Appeal. In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. On October 1, 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants 
petition. In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial of their petition for writ of certiorari.               By
the January 11, 2008 deadline required by the Florida Supreme Court s decision, approximately 1,282 cases had been served upon PM USA or ALG asserting individual claims on or on behalf of approximately 7,266 plaintiffs. It is possible that
additional cases have been filed but not yet recorded on the courts  dockets. Some of these cases have been removed from various Florida state courts to the federal district courts in Florida, while others were filed in federal court. In July
2007, PM USA and other defendants requested that the multi-district litigation panel order the transfer of all such cases pending in the federal courts, as well as any other  Engle  progeny cases that may be filed, to the Middle District of
Florida for pretrial coordination. The panel denied this request in December 2007. In October 2007, attorneys for plaintiffs filed a motion to consolidate all pending and future cases filed in the state trial court in Hillsborough County. The court
denied this motion in November 2007.                  Scott Class Action:  In July 2003, following the first phase of the trial in the  Scott  class action, in which plaintiffs sought creation of a fund to pay for medical monitoring and smoking
cessation programs, a Louisiana jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants, including PM USA, in connection with plaintiffs  medical monitoring claims, but also found that plaintiffs could benefit from smoking cessation assistance. The jury
also found that cigarettes as designed are not defective but that the defendants failed to  
       
   81   

Exhibit 13          
  
 disclose all they knew about smoking and diseases and marketed their products to minors. In May 2004, in the second phase of the trial, the jury awarded
plaintiffs approximately $590 million against all defendants jointly and severally, to fund a 10-year smoking cessation program.            In June 2004, the court entered judgment, which awarded plaintiffs the approximately $590 million jury award plus prejudgment interest accruing from the
date the suit commenced. As of February 15, 2007, the amount of prejudgment interest was approximately $444 million. PM USA s share of the jury award and prejudgment interest has not been allocated. Defendants, including PM USA, appealed.
Pursuant to a stipulation of the parties, the trial court entered an order setting the amount of the bond at $50 million for all defendants in accordance with an article of the Louisiana Code of Civil Procedure, and a Louisiana statute (the
 bond cap law ) fixing the amount of security in civil cases involving a signatory to the MSA (as defined below). Under the terms of the stipulation, plaintiffs reserve the right to contest, at a later date, the sufficiency or amount of
the bond on any grounds including the applicability or constitutionality of the bond cap law. In September 2004, defendants collectively posted a bond in the amount of $50 million.            In February 2007, the Louisiana Court of Appeal issued a ruling on defendants  appeal that, among other things:
affirmed class certification but limited the scope of the class; struck certain of the categories of damages that comprised the judgment, reducing the amount of the award by approximately $312 million; vacated the award of prejudgment interest,
which totaled approximately $444 million as of February 15, 2007; and ruled that the only class members who are eligible to participate in the smoking cessation program are those who began smoking before, and whose claims accrued by,
September 1, 1988. As a result, the Louisiana Court of Appeal remanded for proceedings consistent with its opinion, including further reduction of the amount of the award based on the size of the new class. In March 2007, the Louisiana Court of
Appeal rejected defendants  motion for rehearing and clarification. In January 2008, the Louisiana Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  and defendants  petitions for writ of certiorari. Following the Louisiana Supreme Court s denial
of defendants  petition for writ of certiorari, PM USA recorded a provision of $26 million in connection with the case.             Smoking and Health Litigation                   Overview:  Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of
recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of
deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes. Plaintiffs in the smoking and health actions seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive
damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of
proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.                  Smoking and Health Class Actions:  Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported
nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts. In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of
residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.            Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in 57 smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in
Arkansas (1), the District of Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (2), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico
(1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1) and Wisconsin (1). A class remains certified in the  Scott  class action discussed above.            In addition to the cases brought in the United States, three smoking and health class actions have been brought against tobacco industry participants,
including certain PMI subsidiaries in Brazil (2) and Israel (1). In one class action in Brazil, a consumer organization is seeking damages for smokers and former smokers, and injunctive relief. The trial court found in favor of the plaintiff in
February 2004. The court awarded R$1,000 (currently approximately U.S. $500) per smoker per full year of smoking for moral damages plus interest at the rate of 1% per month, as of the date of the ruling. Actual damages are to be assessed in a
second phase of the case. The size of the class is currently unknown. Defendants appealed the decision to the S o Paulo Court of Appeals and the case, including the judgment, is currently stayed pending appeal. In addition, the defendants
filed a constitutional appeal to the Federal Supreme Court on the basis that the consumer association does not have standing to bring the lawsuit. Both appeals are pending.                There are currently pending two purported class actions against PM USA brought in New York ( Caronia , filed in
January 2006 in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York) and Massachusetts ( Donovan , filed in March 2007 in the United States District Court for the District of Massachusetts) on behalf of each state s
respective residents who: are age 50 or older; have smoked the  Marlboro  brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under examination by a physician for suspected lung cancer. Plaintiffs in these
cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT Scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung cancer. Neither claim
seeks punitive damages. Plaintiffs  motion for class certification is pending in  Caronia .             Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation                   Overview:  In health care cost recovery litigation, domestic and foreign governmental entities and non-governmental plaintiffs seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly
caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages as well. Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting
alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.            The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were
 unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary
undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public  
       
   82   

Exhibit 13          
  
 nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under
federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.            Defenses raised
include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and
benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit, and statutes of limitations. In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set
off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise. Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under
principles of subrogation and assignment. Under traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured
party. Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.            Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial
decisions have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers. Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and six state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote,
have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions. The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.            In March 1999, in the first health care cost recovery case to go to trial, an
Ohio jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on all counts. In addition, a $17.8 million verdict against defendants (including $6.8 million against PM USA) was reversed in a health care cost recovery case in New York, and all claims were
dismissed with prejudice in February 2005 ( Blue Cross/Blue Shield ). The trial in the health care cost recovery case brought by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 50 Missouri hospitals, in which PM USA and ALG are defendants, is
scheduled to begin in January 2009.            Individuals and
associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private attorneys general under the Medicare As Secondary Payer statute to recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases.
Cases brought in New York ( Mason ), Florida ( Glover ) and Massachusetts ( United Seniors Association ) have been dismissed by federal courts, and plaintiffs  appealed in  United Seniors Association . In August 2007, the
United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit affirmed the district court s dismissal in  United Seniors Association . In November 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which
was denied on January 22, 2008.            In addition to the cases
brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA, PMI and certain PMI subsidiaries in Israel (1), the Marshall Islands (1 dismissed), Canada (1), France (1
dismissed), Spain (1) and Nigeria (5) and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. In September 2005, in the case in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia
permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case which had previously been dismissed by the trial court was permitted to proceed. PM USA, PMI and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of
jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision. Several other provinces in Canada have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of
enacting similar legislation.                 
 Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:  In November 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) with 46 states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product
manufacturers had previously settled similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). The State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating
manufacturers make substantial annual payments of $9.4 billion each year (excluding future annual payments, if any, under the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust discussed below), subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation,
market share and industry volume. In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to an annual cap of $500 million.            The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to
advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions.                  Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for
2003, 2004 and 2005:  Pursuant to the provisions of the MSA, domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, who are original signatories to the MSA ( OPMs ), are participating in proceedings that may result in downward
adjustments to the amounts paid by the OPMs and the other MSA participating manufacturers to the states and territories that are parties to the MSA for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005. The proceedings are based on the collective loss of market share
for 2003, 2004 and 2005, respectively, by all manufacturers who are subject to the payment obligations and marketing restrictions of the MSA to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) who are not subject to such obligations and
restrictions.            In these proceedings, an independent economic
consulting firm jointly selected by the MSA parties is required to determine whether the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor  contributing to the collective loss of market share for the year in question. If the firm
determines that the disadvantages of the MSA were such a  significant factor,  each state may avoid a downward adjustment to its share of the participating manufacturers  annual payments for that year by establishing that it
diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year. Any potential downward adjustment would then be reallocated to those states that do not establish such diligent enforcement. PM USA believes that the MSA s
arbitration clause requires a state to submit its claim to have diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute to binding arbitration before a panel of three former federal judges in the manner provided for in the MSA. A number of states have taken
the position that this claim should be decided in state court on a state-by-state basis.            In March of 2006, an independent economic consulting firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share
for the year 2003. In February 2007, this same firm determined that the disadvantages of the MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2004. As of  
       
   83   

Exhibit 13          
  
 October 2007, PM USA is also participating in another such proceeding before the same economic consulting firm to determine whether the disadvantages of the
MSA were a significant factor contributing to the participating manufacturers  collective loss of market share for the year 2005. The economic consulting firm is expected to render its final determination on the significant factor issue for
2005 sometime in February 2008. Following the economic consulting firm s determination with respect to 2003, thirty-eight states filed declaratory judgment actions in state courts seeking a declaration that the state diligently enforced its
escrow statute during 2003. The OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers have responded to these actions by filing motions to compel arbitration in accordance with the terms of the MSA, including filing motions to compel arbitration in eleven
MSA states and territories that have not filed declaratory judgment actions. Courts in over 45 states have ruled that the question of whether a state diligently enforced its escrow statute during 2003 is subject to arbitration and only one state
court ruling to the contrary currently stands, and it remains subject to appeal. Many of these rulings, including the one ruling against arbitration, remain subject to appeal or further review. Additionally, Ohio filed a declaratory judgment action
in state court with respect to the 2004 diligent enforcement issue. The action has been stayed pending the decision about the 2003 payments.            The availability and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2003 and 2004 will not be finally determined until 2008 or thereafter. The availability
and the precise amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2005 will not be finally determined until late 2008 or thereafter. There is no certainty that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment as a result of
these proceedings. If the OPMs do receive such an adjustment through these proceedings, the adjustment would be allocated among the OPMs pursuant to the MSA s provisions, and PM USA s share would likely be applied as a credit against a
future MSA payment.                  National
Grower Settlement Trust:  As part of the MSA, the settling defendants committed to work cooperatively with the tobacco-growing states to address concerns about the potential adverse economic impact of the MSA on tobacco growers and quota holders.
To that end, in 1999, four of the major domestic tobacco product manufacturers, including PM USA, established the National Tobacco Grower Settlement Trust ( NTGST ), a trust fund to provide aid to tobacco growers and quota holders. The
trust was to be funded by these four manufacturers over 12 years with payments, prior to application of various adjustments, scheduled to total $5.15 billion. Provisions of the NTGST allowed for offsets to the extent that industry-funded payments
were made for the benefit of growers or quota holders as part of a legislated end to the federal tobacco quota and price support program.            In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was signed into law. FETRA provides for the elimination of the
federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders. The cost of the buy-out, which is estimated at approximately $9.5 billion, is being paid over 10 years by manufacturers and
importers of each kind of tobacco product. The cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product. The quota buy-out payments offset already scheduled payments to the NTGST.
However, two of the grower states, Maryland and Pennsylvania, have filed claims in the North Carolina state courts, asserting that the companies which established the NTGST (including PM USA) must continue making payments under the NTGST through
2010 for the benefit of Maryland and Pennsylvania growers (such continuing payments would represent slightly more than one percent of the originally scheduled payments that would have been due to the NTGST for the years 2005 through 2010)
notwithstanding the offsets resulting from the FETRA payments. The North Carolina trial court has held in favor of Maryland and Pennsylvania, and the companies (including PM USA) have appealed. In addition to the approximately $9.5 billion cost of
the buy-out, FETRA also obligated manufacturers and importers of tobacco products to cover any losses (up to $500 million) that the government incurred on the disposition of tobacco pool stock accumulated under the previous tobacco price support
program. PM USA has paid $138 million for its share of the tobacco pool stock losses. The quota buy-out did not have a material adverse impact on ALG s consolidated results in 2007. ALG does not currently anticipate that the quota buy-out will
have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results in 2008 and beyond.                  Other MSA-Related Litigation:  In June 2004, a putative class of California smokers filed a complaint against PM USA and the MSA s other  Original Participating
Manufacturers  ( OPMs ) seeking damages from the OPMs for post-MSA price increases and an injunction against their continued compliance with the MSA s terms. The complaint alleges that the MSA and related legislation protect the
OPMs from competition in a manner that violates federal and state antitrust and consumer protection laws. The complaint also names the California Attorney General as a defendant and seeks to enjoin him from enforcing California s Escrow
Statute. In March 2005, the United States District Court for the Northern District of California granted defendants  motion to dismiss the case. On September 26, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the
dismissal.                Without naming PM USA or any other private
party as a defendant, manufacturers that have elected not to sign the MSA ( Non-Participating Manufacturers  or  NPMs ) and/or their distributors or customers have filed several other legal challenges to the MSA and related
legislation. New York state officials are defendants in a lawsuit pending in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in which cigarette importers allege that the MSA and/or related legislation violates federal
antitrust laws and the Commerce Clause of the United States Constitution. In a separate proceeding pending in the same court, plaintiffs assert the same theories against not only New York officials but also the Attorneys General for thirty other
states. The United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit has held that the allegations in both actions, if proven, establish a basis for relief on antitrust and Commerce Clause grounds and that the trial courts in New York have personal
jurisdiction sufficient to enjoin other states  officials from enforcing their MSA-related legislation. On remand in those two actions, one trial judge preliminarily enjoined New York from enforcing its  allocable share  amendment to
the MSA s Model Escrow Statute against the plaintiffs, while another trial judge refused to do so after concluding that the plaintiffs were unlikely to prove their allegations. Summary judgment motions are pending in one of those cases.
           In another action, the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fifth Circuit reversed a trial court s dismissal of challenges to MSA-related legislation in Louisiana under the First and Fourteenth Amendments to the United States Constitution. The case will now proceed to motions for summary judgment and,
if necessary, a trial. Summary judgment proceedings in another challenge to Louisiana s participation in the MSA and its MSA-related legislation may begin in mid-2008. Yet another proceeding has been initiated before an international
arbitration tribunal under the provisions of  
       
   84   

Exhibit 13          
  
 the North American Free Trade Agreement. Appeals from trial court decisions holding that plaintiffs have failed either to make allegations establishing a
claim for relief or to submit evidence supporting those allegations are currently, or will soon be, pending before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth and Tenth Circuits. The United States Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit has
affirmed the dismissal of two similar challenges.              
    Federal Government s Lawsuit:  In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and
others, including ALG, asserting claims under three federal statutes, the Medical Care Recovery Act ( MCRA ), the Medicare Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO. Trial of
the case ended in June 2005. The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various
federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program. The complaint alleged that such costs total more than $20 billion annually. It also sought
what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits which arose from defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by the defendants, and a declaration that the
defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct. In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the government s MCRA and MSP
claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.            The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately $280 billion is an appropriate remedy. In May 2004, the trial court issued an
order denying defendants  motion for partial summary judgment limiting the disgorgement remedy. In February 2005, a panel of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy
available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO and entered summary judgment in favor of defendants with respect to the disgorgement claim. In April 2005, the Court of Appeals denied the government s motion for rehearing. In July
2005, the government petitioned the United States Supreme Court for further review of the Court of Appeals  ruling that disgorgement is not an available remedy, and in October 2005, the Supreme Court denied the petition.            In June 2005, the government filed with the trial court its proposed final
judgment seeking remedies of approximately $14 billion, including $10 billion over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation program and $4 billion over a ten-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign.
Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional monies to these programs if targeted reductions in the smoking rate of those under 21 are not achieved according to a prescribed timetable. The
government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations   including, but not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to
certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.            In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the
government. The court held that certain defendants, including ALG and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in 7 of the 8  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged. Specifically, the court found that:         

defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;            

defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;            

defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;            

defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;            

defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;          

defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and            

defendants suppressed scientific research.                   The court did not impose monetary penalties on the defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against  committing
any act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of
the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false,
misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes 
(iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including  lights,   ultra lights  and
 low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe a cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media regarding the adverse health effects of
smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery
and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or
produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of
disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission, for a period of ten years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or
transfer by defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs in bringing the action.            In September 2006, defendants filed notices of appeal to the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. In September 2006, the trial court denied defendants  motion to stay the judgment pending defendants  appeals, and defendants then filed an emergency motion with the Court of Appeals
to stay enforcement of the judgment pending their appeals.         
   85   

Exhibit 13          
   In October 2006, the government filed a notice of appeal to the Court of Appeals in which it appeals the denial of
certain remedies, including the disgorgement of profits and the cessation remedies it had sought. In October 2006, a three-judge panel of the United States Court of Appeals granted defendants  motion and stayed the trial court s judgment
pending its review of the decision. Certain defendants, including PM USA and ALG, filed a motion to clarify the trial court s August 2006 Final Judgment and Remedial Order. In March 2007, the trial court denied in part and granted in part
defendants  post-trial motion for clarification of portions of the court s remedial order. As noted above, the trial court s judgment and remedial order remain stayed pending the appeal to the Court of Appeals. In May 2007, the United
States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia scheduled briefing of the parties  consolidated appeal to begin in August 2007 and conclude in May 2008.             Lights/Ultra Lights Cases                       Overview:    Plaintiffs in these class actions (some of which have not been certified as such),
allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud, or RICO violations, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including
restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages. These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, ALG and PMI or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes,
including  Marlboro Lights, Marlboro Ultra Lights, Virginia Slims Lights  and  Superslims, Merit Lights  and  Cambridge Lights.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury, and damages,
the statute of limitations, express preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act and implied preemption by the policies and directives of the Federal Trade Commission, non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting
conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment. Seventeen cases are pending in Arkansas (2), Delaware (1), Florida (1), Illinois (1), Maine (1), Massachusetts (1), Minnesota (1), Missouri (1), New Hampshire (1),
New Jersey (1), New Mexico (1), New York (1), Oregon (1), Tennessee (1), and West Virginia (2). In addition, there are two cases pending in Israel. Other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions against ALG, PMI, and PM
USA.              To date, 11 courts in 12 cases have refused to
certify class actions, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA. Trial courts in Arizona, Kansas, New Mexico, Oregon, Washington and New Jersey have refused to certify a class, an appellate court in
Florida has overturned class certification by a trial court, the Ohio Supreme Court has overturned class certifications in two cases, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit has dismissed a purported Lights class action brought in
Louisiana federal court ( Sullivan ) on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, a federal trial court in Maine has dismissed a purported class action on federal preemption
grounds ( Good ) ,  plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed an action in a federal trial court in Michigan after the court dismissed claims asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act, and the Supreme Court of Illinois
has overturned a judgment in favor of a plaintiff class in the  Price  case. The United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court s grant of PM USA s motion for summary judgment in the  Good  case
on federal preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed proceedings pending the ruling of the United States Supreme Court on defendants  petition for a writ of certiorari, which was granted on
January 18, 2008. An intermediate appellate court in Oregon and the Supreme Court in Washington have denied plaintiffs  motions for interlocutory review of the trial courts  refusals to certify a class. Plaintiffs in the Oregon case
failed to appeal by the deadline for doing so and the trial court subsequently entered judgment against plaintiffs on the ground of express preemption under the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act. In November, plaintiffs in that case
( Pearson ) filed a notice of appeal of the trial court s decisions with the Oregon Court of Appeals. Plaintiffs in the case in Washington voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case renewed their
motion for class certification. Plaintiffs in the Florida case ( Hines ) petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review, and on January 14, 2008, the Florida Supreme Court denied this petition.            Trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in Massachusetts
( Aspinall ), Minnesota ( Curtis ), Missouri ( Craft ) and New York ( Schwab ). PM USA has appealed or otherwise challenged these class certification orders, and the appeal in  Schwab  is pending. In addition, the United
States Supreme Court has reversed the trial and appellate courts  rulings denying plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state trial court in a purported Lights class action brought in Arkansas ( Watson ). Developments in these
cases include:         

Watson:   In June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a
state, as opposed to federal, trial court. The Supreme Court rejected defendants  contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute. The case has been remanded to the state trial court in
Arkansas. In December 2007, the court rejected the parties  proposed stipulation to stay the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision on defendants  petition for writ of certiorari in  Good,  which was granted on
January 18, 2008.            

Aspinall:   In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order. In April 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion to
redefine the class to include all persons who after November 25, 1994 purchased packs or cartons of  Marlboro Lights  cigarettes in Massachusetts that displayed the legend  Lower Tar   Nicotine  (the original class
definition did not include a reference to lower tar and nicotine). In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on the state consumer protection statutory exemption and federal preemption. On motion of the
parties, the trial court has subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review and the trial court proceedings are stayed pending completion of the appellate review. Motions for direct appellate review with
the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court were granted in April 2007 and oral arguments were heard in January 2008.            

Curtis:   In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied PM USA s petition for interlocutory review of the trial court s class
certification order. In September 2005, PM USA removed  Curtis  to federal court based on the Eighth Circuit s decision in  Watson , which upheld the removal of a Lights case to federal court based on the federal officer jurisdiction
of the Federal Trade Commission. In February 2006, the federal court denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court. The case was stayed pending the outcome of  Dahl v. R. J.   Reynolds Tobacco Co. , which was argued
before the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in December 2006. In  
          
   86   

Exhibit 13          

February 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit issued its ruling in  Dahl , and reversed the federal district court s
denial of plaintiffs  motion to remand that case to the state trial court. On October 17, 2007, the district court remanded the  Curtis  case to state court. In December 2007, the Minnesota Court of Appeals reversed the trial
court s determination in  Dahl  that plaintiffs  claims in that case were subject to express preemption and defendant in that case has petitioned the Minnesota Supreme Court for review. In December 2007, defendants in  Curtis 
moved to stay proceedings pending any appellate review by the Minnesota Supreme Court in  Dahl  and the United States Supreme Court in  Good , which was granted on January 18, 2008.            

Craft:   In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order. In September 2005, PM USA removed  Craft  to federal
court based on the Eighth Circuit s decision in  Watson.  In March 2006, the federal trial court granted plaintiffs  motion and remanded the case to the Missouri state trial court. In May 2006, the Missouri Supreme Court declined to
review the trial court s class certification decision. Trial has been set for January 2009.            

Schwab:   In September 2005, the trial court granted in part defendants  motion for partial summary judgment dismissing plaintiffs  claims for
equitable relief and denied a number of plaintiffs  motions for summary judgment. In November 2005, the trial court ruled that the plaintiffs would be permitted to calculate damages on an aggregate basis and use  fluid recovery 
theories to allocate them among class members. In September 2006, the trial court denied defendants  summary judgment motions and granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all United States residents that
purchased cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  light  or  lights  from the first date defendants began selling such cigarettes until the date trial commences. The court also declined to certify the order for
interlocutory appeal, declined to stay the case and ordered jury selection to begin in January 2007, with trial scheduled to begin immediately after the jury is impaneled. In October 2006, a single judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit granted PM USA s petition for a temporary stay of pre-trial and trial proceedings pending disposition of the petitions for stay and interlocutory review by a three-judge panel of the Court of Appeals. In November 2006, the Second
Circuit granted interlocutory review of the trial court s class certification order and stayed the case before the trial court pending the appeal. Oral argument was heard on July 10, 2007.               In addition to these cases, in December 2005, in the  Miner  case which
was pending at that time in the United States District Court for the Western District of Arkansas, plaintiffs moved for certification of a class composed of individuals who purchased  Marlboro Lights  or  Cambridge Lights  brands in
Arkansas, California, Colorado, and Michigan. PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on preemption and the Arkansas statutory exemption is pending. Following the filing of this motion, plaintiffs moved to voluntarily dismiss  Miner
 without prejudice, which PM USA opposed. The court then stayed the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision on a petition for writ of certiorari in the  Watson  case discussed above. In July 2007, the case was remanded
to a state trial court in Arkansas. In August 2007, plaintiffs renewed their motion for class certification. In October 2007, the court denied PM USA s motion to dismiss on procedural grounds and the court entered a case management order. The
case is currently stayed pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.  The United States Supreme Court granted defendants  petition on January 18, 2008. In addition, plaintiffs  motion for class
certification is pending in a case in Tennessee.             Certain Other
Tobacco-Related Litigation                   Tobacco Price Cases:  As of December 31, 2007, two cases were pending in Kansas and New Mexico in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA and PMI, conspired to fix cigarette prices
in violation of antitrust laws. ALG and PMI are defendants in the case in Kansas. Plaintiffs  motions for class certification have been granted in both cases. In February 2005, the New Mexico Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification
decision. In June 2006, defendants  motion for summary judgment was granted in the New Mexico case. Plaintiffs in the New Mexico case have appealed. The case in Kansas has been stayed pending the Kansas Supreme Court s decision on
defendants  petition regarding certain procedural rulings by the trial court.                  Cigarette Contraband Cases:  In May 2000 and August 2001, various departments of Colombia and the European Community and 10 Member States filed suits in the United States against ALG and
certain of its subsidiaries, including PM USA and PMI, and other cigarette manufacturers and their affiliates, alleging that defendants sold to distributors cigarettes that would be illegally imported into various jurisdictions. In February 2002,
the federal district court granted defendants  motions to dismiss the actions. In January 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissals of the cases based on the common law Revenue Rule, which bars a
foreign government from bringing civil claims in U.S. courts for the recovery of lost taxes. It is possible that future litigation related to cigarette contraband issues may be brought. In this regard, ALG believes that Canadian authorities are
contemplating a legal proceeding based on an investigation of ALG entities relating to allegations of contraband shipments of cigarettes into Canada in the early to mid-1990s.                  Cases Under the California Business and Professions Code:  In June 1997 and July 1998,
two suits ( Brown  and  Daniels ) were filed in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, have violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding
unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices. Class certification was granted in both cases as to plaintiffs  claims that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class periods and
injunctive relief. In September 2002, the court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to all claims in one of the cases ( Daniels ), and plaintiffs appealed. In October 2004, the California Fourth District Court of Appeal
affirmed the trial court s ruling, and also denied plaintiffs  motion for rehearing. In February 2005, the California Supreme Court agreed to hear plaintiffs  appeal. In August 2007, the California Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal
of the  Daniels  class action on federal preemption grounds. In December 2007, plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court.            In September 2004, the trial court in the  Brown  case granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to
plaintiffs  claims attacking defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants   
       
   87   

Exhibit 13          
  
 motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs  claims based on allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In
March 2005, the court granted defendants  motion to decertify the class based on a recent change in California law, which, in two July 2006 opinions, the California Supreme Court ruled applicable to pending cases. Plaintiffs  motion for
reconsideration of the order that decertified the class was denied, and plaintiffs have appealed. In September 2006, an intermediate appellate court affirmed the trial court s order decertifying the class in  Brown . In November 2006, the
California Supreme Court accepted review of the appellate court s decision.            In May 2004, a lawsuit ( Gurevitch ) was filed in California state court on behalf of a purported class of all California residents who purchased the  Merit  brand of cigarettes since July 2000 to the
present alleging that defendants, including PM USA, violated California s Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices, including false and misleading advertising. The
complaint also alleges violations of California s Consumer Legal Remedies Act. Plaintiffs seek injunctive relief, disgorgement, restitution, and attorneys  fees. In July 2005, defendants  motion to dismiss was granted; however,
plaintiffs  motion for leave to amend the complaint was also granted, and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in September 2005. In October 2005, the court stayed this action pending the California Supreme Court s rulings on two cases
not involving PM USA. In July 2006, the California Supreme Court issued rulings in the two cases and held that a recent change in California law known as Proposition 64, which limits the ability to bring a lawsuit to only those plaintiffs who have
 suffered injury in fact  and  lost money or property  as a result of defendant s alleged statutory violations, properly applies to pending cases. In September 2006, the stay was lifted and defendants filed their demurrer to
plaintiffs  amended complaint. In March 2007, the court, without ruling on the demurrer, again stayed the action pending rulings from the California Supreme Court in another case involving Proposition 64 that is relevant to PM USA s
demurrer.             Certain Other Actions                   IRS Challenges to PMCC Leases:  The IRS
concluded its examination of ALG s consolidated tax returns for the years 1996 through 1999, and issued a final Revenue Agent s Report ( RAR ) on March 15, 2006. The RAR disallowed benefits pertaining to certain PMCC
leveraged lease transactions for the years 1996 through 1999. Altria Group, Inc. has agreed with all conclusions of the RAR, with the exception of the disallowance of benefits pertaining to several PMCC leveraged lease transactions for the years
1996 through 1999. PMCC will continue to assert its position regarding these leveraged lease transactions and contest approximately $150 million of tax and net interest assessed and paid with regard to them. The IRS may in the future challenge and
disallow more of PMCC s leveraged leases based on Revenue Rulings, an IRS Notice and subsequent case law addressing specific types of leveraged leases (lease-in/lease-out ( LILO ) and sale-in/lease-out ( SILO )
transactions). PMCC believes that the position and supporting case law described in the RAR, Revenue Rulings and the IRS Notice are incorrectly applied to PMCC s transactions and that its leveraged leases are factually and legally
distinguishable in material respects from the IRS s position. PMCC and ALG intend to vigorously defend against any challenges based on that position through litigation. In this regard, on October 16, 2006, PMCC filed a complaint in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York to claim refunds for a portion of these tax payments and associated interest. However, should PMCC s position not be upheld, PMCC may have to accelerate the payment of significant
amounts of federal income tax and significantly lower its earnings to reflect the recalculation of the income from the affected leveraged leases, which could have a material effect on the earnings and cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. in a particular
fiscal quarter or fiscal year. PMCC considered this matter in its adoption of FASB Interpretation No. 48 and FASB Staff Position No. FAS 13-2.                   It is possible that there could be adverse
developments in pending cases. An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco related litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation. Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from
bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases. This risk has been substantially reduced given
that 42 states now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.            ALG and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably
estimated. Except as discussed elsewhere in this Note 19.  Contingencies:  (i) management has not concluded that it is probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to
estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome of any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for
unfavorable outcomes, if any.                It is possible that PM
USA s or Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending
litigation. Nevertheless, although litigation is subject to uncertainty, management believes the litigation environment has substantially improved. ALG and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by
counsel handling the respective cases, that it has a number of valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts against it. All such cases are, and will continue to be, vigorously defended.
However, ALG and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of ALG s stockholders to do so.             Third-Party Guarantees             At December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. s third-party guarantees, which are primarily related to excise taxes and divestiture activities, were $72 million, of
which $67 million have no specified expiration dates. The remainder expire through 2011, with none expiring during 2008. Altria Group, Inc. is required to perform under these guarantees in the event that a third party fails to make contractual
payments or achieve performance measures. Altria Group, Inc. has a liability of $22 million on its consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007, relating to these guarantees. For the remainder of these guarantees there is no liability on the
consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2007 as the fair value of these guarantees is insignificant, due to the fact that the probability of future payments under these guarantees is remote. In the ordinary course of business, certain
subsidiaries of ALG have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation.         
   88   

Exhibit 13          
        Note 20.        
      Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited):          
           The first quarter 2007 market price
information in the table above reflects historical market prices which are not adjusted to reflect the Kraft spin-off.          
           Basic and diluted EPS are computed
independently for each of the periods presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly EPS amounts may not agree to the total for the year.          
   89   

Exhibit 13          
   During 2007 and 2006, Altria Group, Inc. recorded the following pre-tax charges or (gains) in
earnings from continuing operations:         
       
          As discussed in Note
14.  Income Taxes , Altria Group, Inc. has recognized income tax benefits in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2007 and 2006 as a result of various tax events.                 Note 21.              Subsequent Events:              Spin-Off of PMI             On January 30,
2008, the Board of Directors announced that Altria Group, Inc. plans to spin off all of its interest in PMI to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders in a tax-free distribution. The distribution of all the PMI shares owned by Altria Group, Inc. will be
made on March 28, 2008 (the  PMI Distribution Date ), to Altria Group, Inc. stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 19, 2008 (the  PMI Record Date ). Altria Group, Inc. will distribute one share of
PMI common stock for every share of Altria Group, Inc. common stock outstanding as of the PMI Record Date. Following the PMI Distribution Date, Altria Group, Inc. will not own any shares of PMI common stock. Altria Group, Inc. intends to adjust its
current dividend so that its stockholders who retain their Altria Group, Inc. and PMI shares will receive, in the aggregate, the same dividend dollars as before the PMI Distribution Date. Following the distribution, PMI s initial annualized
dividend rate will be $1.84 per common share and Altria Group, Inc. s initial annualized dividend rate will be $1.16 per common share. All decisions regarding future dividends will be made independently by the Altria Group, Inc. Board of
Directors and the PMI Board of Directors, for their respective companies.             Stock Compensation             Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options
will be treated similarly to public stockholders and will, accordingly, have their stock awards split into two instruments. Holders of Altria Group, Inc. stock options will receive the following stock options, which, immediately after the spin-off,
will have an aggregate intrinsic value equal to the intrinsic value of the pre-spin Altria Group, Inc. options:   

a new PMI option to acquire the same number of shares of PMI common stock as the number of Altria Group, Inc. options held by such person on the PMI Distribution
Date; and            

an adjusted Altria Group, Inc. option for the same number of shares of Altria Group, Inc. common stock with a reduced exercise price.      
            Holders of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock
awarded prior to January 30, 2008, will retain their existing awards and will receive the same number of shares of restricted or deferred stock of PMI. The restricted stock and deferred stock will not vest until the completion of the original
restriction period (typically, three years from the date of the original grant). Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who will be employed by Altria Group, Inc. after the PMI Distribution Date, will
receive additional shares of deferred stock of Altria Group, Inc. to preserve the intrinsic value of the award. Recipients of Altria Group, Inc. deferred stock awarded on January 30, 2008, who will be employed by PMI after the PMI Distribution
Date, will receive substitute shares of deferred stock of PMI to preserve the intrinsic value of the award.            To the extent that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. receive PMI stock options, Altria Group, Inc. will reimburse PMI in cash for the
Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options to be received. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group, Inc. stock options, PMI will reimburse Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the Black-Scholes fair value of the stock options. To the extent
that employees of the remaining Altria Group, Inc. receive PMI deferred stock, Altria Group, Inc. will pay to PMI the fair value of the PMI deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures. To the extent that PMI employees hold Altria Group,
Inc. restricted stock or deferred stock, PMI will reimburse Altria Group, Inc. in cash for the fair value of the restricted or deferred stock less the value of projected forfeitures and any amounts previously charged to PMI for the restricted or
deferred stock. Based upon the number of Altria Group, Inc. stock awards outstanding at December 31, 2007, the net amount of these reimbursements would be a payment of approximately $427 million from Altria Group, Inc. to PMI. However, this
estimate is subject to change as stock awards vest (in the case of restricted and deferred stock) or are exercised (in the case of stock options) prior to the PMI Record Date.             Other Matters             PMI is currently included in the Altria Group, Inc. consolidated federal income tax return, and federal income tax contingencies are recorded as liabilities on the
balance sheet of ALG (the parent company). Prior to the distribution of PMI shares, ALG will reimburse PMI in cash for these liabilities, which are approximately $97 million.         
   90   

Exhibit 13          
   A subsidiary of ALG currently provides PMI with certain corporate services at cost plus a management
fee. After the PMI Distribution Date, PMI will undertake these activities, and services provided to PMI will cease in 2008. All intercompany accounts will be settled in cash.            Certain employees of PMI participate in the U.S. benefit plans offered by Altria Group, Inc. After the PMI Distribution
Date, the benefits previously provided by Altria Group, Inc. will be provided by PMI. As a result, new plans will be established by PMI, and the related plan assets (to the extent that the benefit plans were previously funded) and liabilities will
be transferred to the new plans. The transfer of these benefits will result in PMI recording an additional liability of approximately $98 million in its consolidated balance sheet, partially offset by the related deferred tax assets ($37 million)
and the corresponding SFAS 158 adjustment to stockholders  equity ($23 million). Altria Group, Inc. will pay PMI a corresponding amount in cash, net of the related tax benefit.            Altria Group, Inc. currently estimates that, if the distribution had occurred on December 31, 2007, it would have
resulted in a net decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s stockholders  equity of approximately $15 billion.             Altria Group, Inc. Tender Offer for Debt             On January 30, 2008, the Board of Directors announced that Altria Group, Inc. will commence a tender offer to purchase for cash all of Altria Group, Inc. s
notes outstanding, including $2.6 billion of domestic notes denominated in U.S. dollars and  1.0 billion in euro-denominated notes. Altria Group, Inc. expects to record a charge in the range of $340 million to $380 million upon completion of
the tender offer. In order to finance the tender offer, Altria Group, Inc. has arranged a $4.0 billion, 364-day credit facility. Subsequent to the spin-off, Altria Group, Inc. intends to access the public debt market to refinance debt incurred in
connection with the tender offer.             Share Repurchase Programs    
        On January 30, 2008, the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors approved a $7.5
billion two-year share repurchase program which is expected to begin in April, after completion of the PMI spin-off. In addition, the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors approved a $13.0 billion two-year share repurchase program for PMI which is
expected to begin in May 2008.                   The principal stock exchange, on which Altria Group, Inc. s common stock (par value
$0.33   1   /   3    per share) is listed, is the New York
Stock Exchange. At January 31, 2008, there were approximately 100,000 holders of record of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock.         
   91   

Exhibit 13          
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Altria Group,
Inc.:            In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the
related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2007 and 2006, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2007 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, Altria Group, Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Altria Group, Inc. s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of
internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on Altria Group, Inc. s
internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the
design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for
our opinions.            As discussed in Notes 16 and 14 to the
consolidated financial statements, Altria Group, Inc. changed the manner in which it accounts for pension, postretirement and postemployment plans in fiscal 2006 and the manner in which it accounts for uncertain tax positions in fiscal 2007,
respectively.            A company s internal control over financial
reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures
of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of
the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.            Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.              PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP              New York, New York      January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008         
   92   

Exhibit 13          
    Report of Management on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting             Management of Altria Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate
internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Internal control over financial
reporting includes those written policies and procedures that:         

pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Altria Group,
Inc.;            

provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America;            

provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of Altria Group, Inc. are being made only in accordance with authorization of management and directors
of Altria Group, Inc.; and            

provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on
the consolidated financial statements.               Internal control over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified.            Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
           Management assessed the effectiveness of Altria Group,
Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007. Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in   Internal Control   Integrated
Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting and testing
of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting. Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors.            Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of December 31, 2007, Altria Group, Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting.            PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, who audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Altria Group, Inc. included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of Altria Group,
Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, as stated in their report herein.            January 28, 2008         
   93   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF ALG.

Subsidiaries of ALG. 

Exhibit 21        ALTRIA GROUP, INC. SUBSIDIARIES       Certain active subsidiaries of the Company and their subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2007, are listed below. The names of certain subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate would not constitute a significant subsidiary, have been omitted.       

Name    
      
     State or Country of Organization     
 
    A.C.N. 091 960 431 Pty Ltd   
      
  Australia   
 
    Abal Hermanos S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Agrotab Empreendimentos Agro-Industriais, S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Altria Corporate Services International, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Altria Corporate Services, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Altria Enterprises LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Altria Finance (Cayman Islands) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Arizona Promosyon Servisleri Limited Sirketi   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Batavia Trading Corporation   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    C.A. Tabacalera Nacional   
      
  Venezuela   
 
    Charles Stewart   Company (Kirkcaldy) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    CJSC Philip Morris Ukraine   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    Compa ia Colombiana de Tabaco S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Cormorant Energy Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CTPM International S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Dart Resorts Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dumas B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Duvanska Industrija Nis (DIN)   
      
  Serbia   
 
    F6 Geschaeftsfuehrungs GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Fabrica de Cigarrillos El Progreso S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    FTR Holding S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    General Foods Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Foods Credit Investors No. 3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Godfrey Phillips (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Grant Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Grant Transit Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GWP C.V.    
      
  Netherlands   
 
    HNB Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Industria de Tabaco Leon Jimenes, S.A.   
      
  Dominican Republic   
 
    Industrias Del Tabaco, Alimentos Y Bebidas S.A.   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    International Trademarks Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Intertaba S.p.A.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Ioniki Trading S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    John Middleton, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Lakson Tobacco Company Limited   
      
  Pakistan   
 
    Le Rh ne Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Management Subsidiary Holdings Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Massalin Particulares S.A.   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Mendiola y Compania, S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Michigan Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OAO Philip Morris Kuban   
      
  Russia   
 
    One Channel Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Orecla Realty, Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    P.T. Sampoerna JL Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   

Exhibit 21        

Name    
      
     State or Country of Organization     
 
    Papastratos Cigarette Manufacturing Company S.A.   
      
  Greece   
 
    Papastratos International BV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Park (U.K.) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Park 1989 B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Park International S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris (Australia) Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Philip Morris (China) Management Co. Ltd.   
      
  China   
 
    Philip Morris (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.   
      
  Malaysia   
 
    Philip Morris (New Zealand) Limited   
      
  New Zealand   
 
    Philip Morris (Portugal) Empresa Comercial de Tabacos, Limitada   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Philip Morris (Thailand) Ltd.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Philip Morris Albania Sh. p. k.   
      
  Albania   
 
    Philip Morris ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Philip Morris Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Philip Morris Belgium BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Philip Morris Belgium Holdings BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Philip Morris Belgrade D.o.o.   
      
  Serbia   
 
    Philip Morris Benelux B.V.B.A.   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Philip Morris BH d.o.o., for Trade Sarajevo   
      
  Bosnia/Herzegovina   
 
    Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda.   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Philip Morris Brasil S.A.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Bulgaria EEOD   
      
  Bulgaria   
 
    Philip Morris Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Chile Comercializadora Ltda.   
      
  Chile   
 
    Philip Morris China Holdings Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Cigatam Productos y Servicios, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Philip Morris Colombia S.A.   
      
  Colombia   
 
    Philip Morris CR a.s.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Philip Morris Duty Free Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Eesti Osauhing   
      
  Estonia   
 
    Philip Morris Egypt LLC   
      
  Egypt   
 
    Philip Morris El Salvador S.A. de C.V.   
      
  El Salvador   
 
    Philip Morris Exports Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Finance SA   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Finland OY   
      
  Finland   
 
    Philip Morris France S.A.S.   
      
  France   
 
    Philip Morris GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Philip Morris Holland B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Philip Morris Holland Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Philip Morris Hungary Cigarette Trading Ltd.   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Philip Morris Information Services Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Philip Morris International Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris International Holdings B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Philip Morris International Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris International Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Philip Morris International Insurance (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Philip Morris International Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris International IT Service Center Pty Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    Philip Morris International Management LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Philip Morris International Management SA   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris International Reinsurance (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Philip Morris International Service Center, SL   
      
  Spain   
 
    Philip Morris International Services Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
       
   2   

Exhibit 21        

Name    
      
     State or Country of Organization     
 
    Philip Morris Italia Srl   
      
  Italy   
 
    Philip Morris Japan Kabushiki Kaisha   
      
  Japan   
 
    Philip Morris Kazakhstan LLP   
      
  Kazakhstan   
 
    Philip Morris Korea Inc.   
      
  Korea   
 
    Philip Morris Kuwait Company W.L.L.   
      
  Kuwait   
 
    Philip Morris Latin America   Canada Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Latin America Sales Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Latin America Services SRL   
      
  Argentina   
 
    Philip Morris Limited (Australia)   
      
  Australia   
 
    Philip Morris Limited (Israel)   
      
  Israel   
 
    Philip Morris Limited (UK)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Philip Morris Ljubljana d.o.o.   
      
  Slovenia   
 
    Philip Morris Luxembourg S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Philip Morris Management Services (Middle East) Limited   
      
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Philip Morris Management Services B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Philip Morris Management Services SA   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Manufacturing GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Philip Morris Manufacturing Senegal, S.A.R.L.   
      
  Senegal   
 
    Philip Morris Mexico, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Philip Morris Montenegro D.o.o.   
      
  Montenegro   
 
    Philip Morris Nicaragua S.A.   
      
  Nicaragua   
 
    Philip Morris Norway AS   
      
  Norway   
 
    Philip Morris Overseas Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philip Morris Panama Sociedad en Comandita por Acciones   
      
  Panama   
 
    Philip Morris Paraguay S.A.   
      
  Paraguay   
 
    Philip Morris Participations B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Philip Morris Peru S.A.   
      
  Peru   
 
    Philip Morris Philippines Manufacturing Inc.   
      
  Philippines   
 
    Philip Morris Polska S.A.   
      
  Poland   
 
    Philip Morris Products S.A.    
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Research Laboratories BVBA   
      
  Belgium   
 
    Philip Morris Research Laboratories GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Philip Morris Reunion s.a.r.l.   
      
  France   
 
    Philip Morris Romania S.R.L.   
      
  Romania   
 
    Philip Morris S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris SA, Philip Morris Sabanci Pazarlama ve Satis A.S.   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Philip Morris Sales   Marketing Ltd.   
      
  Russia   
 
    Philip Morris Services India S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Services India S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Services S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Philip Morris Skopje d.o.o.e.l.   
      
  Macedonia   
 
    Philip Morris Slovakia s.r.o.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Philip Morris South Africa (Pty) Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Philip Morris Spain, S.L., Sociedad Unipersonal   
      
  Spain   
 
    Philip Morris Taiwan S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Trading Srl   
      
  Romania   
 
    Philip Morris Travel Retail Hong Kong Limited   
      
  China   
 
    Philip Morris Travel Retail Singapore Pte Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Philip Morris USA Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Philip Morris Vietnam S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris West   Central Africa SARL   
      
  Benin   
 
    Philip Morris World Trade S. .r.l.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Philip Morris Zagreb d.o.o.   
      
  Croatia   
 
    PHILSA Philip Morris Sabanci Sigara ve T t nc l k Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S.   
      
  Turkey   
       
   3   

Exhibit 21        

Name    
      
     State or Country of Organization     
 
    PM Intl Serv Panama   
      
  Panama   
 
    PM Products International Inc.   
      
  United States   
 
    PMCC Europe GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 1 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 2 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 3 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Investors No. 4 Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMCC Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMI Aviation Services SA   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    PMI Engineering S.A.   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    PMI Global Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PMI Service Center Europe Sp. z o.o.   
      
  Poland   
 
    PMM-S.G.P.S., S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    PMPI LLC   
      
  United States   
 
    Proesa, Sociedad Anonima   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Proveedora Ecuatoriana S.A. (Proesa)   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    PT Agasam   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Asia Tembakau   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Golf Taman Dayu   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Handal Logistik Nusantara   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Hanjaya Mandala Sampoerna Tbk.   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Perusahaan Dagang dan Industri Panamas   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Philip Morris Indonesia   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Sampoerna Air Nusantara   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Sampoerna Printpack   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Taman Dayu   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Union Sampoerna Dinamika   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Wahana Sampoerna   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Rocker Production AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Sampoerna International Pte Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Sampoerna Latin America Limited   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    SB Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SIA Philip Morris Latvia   
      
  Latvia   
 
    Superior Tobacco Company, N.V.   
      
  Netherlands Antilles   
 
    Tabacalera Andina SA (Tanasa)   
      
  Ecuador   
 
    Tabacalera Centroamericana, S.A.   
      
  Guatemala   
 
    Tabacalera Costarricense S.A.   
      
  Costa Rica   
 
    Tabacontrole, S.G.P.S, S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Tabacos Desvenados, S.A. de C.V.   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Tabamark S.A.   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Tabaqueira, S.A.   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Technology Enterprise Computing Works, LLC   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Trademarks LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trimarin Leasing Investors, L.L.C. II   
      
  Delaware   
 
    UAB Philip Morris Baltic   
      
  Lithuania   
 
    UAB Philip Morris Lietuva   
      
  Lithuania   
 
    Uniromat Sarl   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Vinasa Investment Corporation   
      
  British Virgin Islands   
 
    Wolverine Investment Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ZAO Philip Morris Izhora   
      
  Russia   
       
   4   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM.

Consent of independent reistered public accounting firm. 

Exhibit 23       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in
Post-Effective Amendment No. 13 to the Registration Statement of Altria Group, Inc. on Form S-14 (File No. 2-96149) and in Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-35143) and Forms S-8 (File Nos. 333-28631,
33-10218, 33-13210, 33-14561, 33-40110, 33-48781, 33-59109, 333-43478, 333-43484, 333-128494, 333-139523, 333-148070 and 333-148071), of our report dated January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, relating to the
consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Altria Group, Inc., which appears in the Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We also consent
to the incorporation by reference of our report dated January 28, 2008, except for Notes 19 and 21 which are as of February 4, 2008, relating to the financial statement schedule, which appears in this Form 10-K.          /s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      New York, New York      February 28, 2008   

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 10
 dex24.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY.

Powers of attorney. 

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set her hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    E LIZABETH  E.
B AILEY     
 
        Elizabeth E. Bailey    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    H AROLD 
B ROWN     
 
        Harold Brown    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    M ATHIS 
C ABIALLAVETTA     
 
        Mathis Cabiallavetta    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    L OUIS  C.
C AMILLERI     
 
        Louis C. Camilleri    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    J. D UDLEY 
F ISHBURN     
 
        J. Dudley Fishburn    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    R OBERT  E. R.
H UNTLEY     
 
        Robert E. R. Huntley    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    T HOMAS  W.
J ONES     
 
        Thomas W. Jones    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    G EORGE 
M U OZ     
 
        George Mu oz    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    L UCIO  A.
N OTO     
 
        Lucio A. Noto    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    J OHN  S.
R EED     
 
        John S. Reed    

Exhibit 24         POWER OF ATTORNEY         KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT  the undersigned, a Director of
Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Louis C. Camilleri, Dinyar S. Devitre and Charles R. Wall, or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for his and in his name,
place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2007 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and
to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority
to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and
things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present.       IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the undersigned has hereunto
set his hand and seal this 27   th    day of February, 2008.            

/ S /    S TEPHEN  M.
W OLF     
 
        Stephen M. Wolf    

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 11
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.1       Certifications      I, Louis C. Camilleri, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 28, 2008  

/s/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI   

Louis C. Camilleri  

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 12
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 

Exhibit 31.2       Certifications      I, Dinyar S. Devitre, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 28, 2008  

/s/ DINYAR S. DEVITRE   

Dinyar S. Devitre  

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 13
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period
ended December 31, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Louis C. Camilleri, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as
adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the requirements of
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in
all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

/s/ LOUIS C. CAMILLERI    
 
  Louis C. Camilleri   
 
  Chairman and Chief   
 
  Executive Officer   
 
  February 28, 2008   
     A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Altria Group, Inc. and will be retained by Altria Group, Inc.
and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 14
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. 1350 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual Report of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period
ended December 31, 2007 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Dinyar S. Devitre, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.
  1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) the Report fully complies with the
requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      (2) the information contained in the Report fairly
presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

/s/ DINYAR S. DEVITRE    
 
  Dinyar S. Devitre   
 
  Senior Vice President and   
 
  Chief Financial Officer   
 
  February 28, 2008   
     A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906, or other document authenticating,
acknowledging, or otherwise adopting the signature that appears in typed form within the electronic version of this written statement required by Section 906, has been provided to Altria Group, Inc. and will be retained by Altria Group, Inc.
and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.    

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 15
 dex991.htm
 CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS.

Certain Litigation Matters and Recent Developments. 

Exhibit 99.1       CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS AND RECENT DEVELOPMENTS      As described in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  of this Form 10-K
and Note. 19  Contingencies  to Altria Group, Inc. s Consolidated Financial Statements included in Exhibit 13 hereto, there are legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters pending or threatened in various U.S. and foreign
jurisdictions against ALG, its subsidiaries and affiliates, including PM USA and PMI, and their respective indemnitees. Various types of claims are raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax,
contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors. Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health
cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on
behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic
and foreign) and non-governmental plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights 
and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud or RICO violations, and (v) other tobacco-related litigation.      The following lists certain of the pending claims included in these categories and certain other pending claims. Certain developments in these cases since November 1, 2007 are also described.      SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION      The following lists the
consolidated individual smoking and health cases as well as smoking and health class actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, ALG and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates, including PMI, as of February 15, 2008, and describes
certain developments in these cases since November 1, 2007.       Consolidated Individual Smoking and Health Cases        In re: Tobacco Litigation (Individual Personal Injury cases), Circuit Court, Ohio County, West Virginia, consolidated January 11, 2000.  In West Virginia, all
smoking and health cases in state court alleging personal injury have been transferred to the State s Mass Litigation Panel. The transferred cases include individual cases and putative class actions. All individual cases filed in or transferred
to the court by September 13, 2000 were consolidated for pretrial proceedings and trial. John Middleton, Inc. was named as a defendant in this action but it, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers have been severed from this case.
Currently, the aggregated claims of 728 individuals (of which 414 individuals have claims against PM USA) are pending. In December 2005, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals ruled that the United States Constitution does not preclude a trial
in two phases in this case. Issues related to defendants  conduct, plaintiffs  entitlement to punitive damages and a punitive damages multiplier, if any, would be determined in the first phase. The second phase would consist of individual
trials to determine liability, if any, and compensatory damages. In May 2007, the trial court denied defendants  motion to vacate the trial court s trial plan based on the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Williams v.
Philip Morris . In November 2007, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals denied defendants  renewed motion for review of the trial plan. In December 2007, defendants filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme
Court, which was denied on February 25, 2008. In February 2008, the court granted defendants  motion to stay the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al .,
( Good ) described below.   

Flight Attendant Litigation       The settlement agreement entered into in 1997 in the case of  Broin, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al. , which was brought by flight attendants seeking damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by environmental
tobacco smoke, allows members of the  Broin  class to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibits them from seeking punitive damages. In October 2000, the trial court ruled that the flight attendants will not be
required to prove the substantive liability elements of their claims for negligence, strict liability and breach of implied warranty in order to recover damages, if any, other than establishing that the plaintiffs  alleged injuries were caused
by their exposure to environmental tobacco smoke and, if so, the amount of compensatory damages to be awarded. Defendants  initial appeal of this ruling was dismissed as premature. Defendants appealed the October 2000 rulings in connection with
their appeal of the adverse jury verdict in the  French  case. In December 2004, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment awarding plaintiff in the  French  case $500,000, and directed the trial court to hold
defendants jointly and severally liable. Defendants  motion for rehearing was denied in April 2005. In December 2005, after exhausting all appeals, PM USA paid $328,759 (including interest of $78,259) as its share of the judgment amount and
interest in  French  and, although plaintiffs may still contest the amount, in August 2007, PM USA paid $229,293.11 (including interest of $7,380.48) representing its share of attorneys  fees. In November 2007, a jury found in favor of the
defendants in a case brought by a flight attendant. As of February 15, 2008, 2,622 cases were pending in the Circuit Court of Dade County, Florida against PM USA and three other cigarette manufacturers.       Domestic Class Actions        Engle, et al. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco
Co., et al., Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , for a discussion of this case.       Scott, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed May 24, 1996.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , for a discussion of this case.
      Young, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed November 12, 1997.    
   Parsons, et al. v. A C   S, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Kanawha County, West Virginia, filed February 27, 1998.        Cleary, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Cook County, Illinois, filed June 3, 1998.  In April 2006, defendants  motion to
dismiss a nuisance claim was granted. In July 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification.       Cypret, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company,
et al., Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri, filed December 22, 1998.        Simms, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States
District Court, District of Columbia, filed May 23, 2001 . In May 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration of the court s 2003 ruling that denied their motion for class certification. In September 2004, plaintiffs renewed
their motion for reconsideration. This motion was denied by the court in December 2006.       Lowe, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit
Court, Multnomah County, Oregon ,  filed November 19, 2001 . In September 2003, the court granted defendants  motion to dismiss the complaint, and plaintiffs appealed. In September 2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the
final judgment in favor of the defendants. In December 2006, plaintiffs filed a petition for review with the Oregon Supreme Court. The Oregon Supreme Court granted plaintiffs  petition for review in March 2007.       Caronia, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District of New York, filed January 13, 2006.  See Item 3.  Legal
Proceedings,  for a discussion of this case.   

Donovan, et al. v. Philip Morris, United States District Court, District of Massachusetts, filed March 2, 2007.
 See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  for a discussion of this case.       International Class Actions         The Smoker Health Defense Association (ADESF) v. Souza Cruz, S.A. and Philip Morris Marketing, S.A., Nineteenth Lower Civil Court of the Central Courts of the
Judiciary District of S o Paulo, Brazil, filed July 25, 1995.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , for a discussion of this case.       Sasson, et al. v. Philip Morris International Inc., et al., District Court, Tel Aviv, Israel, filed July 11, 2005 . Plaintiffs  claim was dismissed on statute of limitations grounds in May 2007. Plaintiffs appealed to the
Supreme Court, and in January 2008 the Supreme Court dismissed the appeal on procedural grounds. Plaintiffs may seek reconsideration of the dismissal of appeal.       Public Prosecutor of Sao Paulo v. Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda, Civil Court of the City of Sao Paolo, Brazil, filed August 6, 2007.  The plaintiff is seeking: (1) unspecified damages on behalf of all
smokers nationwide, former smokers, and their relatives; (2) unspecified damages on behalf of people exposed to ETS nationwide, and their relatives; and (3) reimbursement of the health care costs allegedly incurred for the treatment of
tobacco-related diseases by all 27 states, approximately 5,000 municipalities, and the Federal District. While PMI s subsidiary has not yet been served, the judge has authorized the claim to be served. In December 2007, the trial court limited
the scope of the claim to the state of Sao Paolo only. PMI s subsidiary was served with the claim on February 13, 2008.      HEALTH
CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION      The following lists the health care cost recovery actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, ALG and/or its other
subsidiaries and affiliates as of February 15, 2008 and describes certain developments in these cases since November 1, 2007. As discussed in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  in 1998, PM USA and certain other United States tobacco
product manufacturers entered into a Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) settling the health care cost recovery claims of 46 states, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands,
American Samoa and the Northern Marianas. Settlement agreements settling similar claims had previously been entered into with the states of Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota. PM USA believes that the claims in the city/county, taxpayer and
certain of the other health care cost recovery actions listed below are released in whole or in part by the MSA or that recovery in any such actions should be subject to the offset provisions of the MSA.       City of St. Louis Case        City of St. Louis, et al. v. American
Tobacco, et al., Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed November 23, 1998 . In November 2001, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss and dismissed three of plaintiffs  11 claims. In
June 2005, the court granted in part defendants  motion for summary judgment limiting plaintiffs  claims for past compensatory damages to those that accrued after November 16, 1993, five years prior to the filing of the suit. The
trial is scheduled to begin in January 2010.       Department of Justice Case        The United States of America v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , for a discussion
of this case.   

International Cases        Kupat Holim Clalit v. Philip Morris USA, et al., Jerusalem District Court, Israel, filed September 28, 1998 . Defendants  motion to dismiss the case has been denied by the district court. In June 2004, defendants filed a
motion with the Israel Supreme Court for leave to appeal. The appeal was heard by the Supreme Court in March 2005, and the parties are awaiting the court s decision.       Her Majesty the Queen in Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada, filed January 24, 2001 . In June 2003, the trial court
granted defendants  motion to dismiss the case, and plaintiff appealed. In May 2004, the appellate court reversed the trial court s decision. Defendants appealed. In September 2005, the Supreme Court of Canada ruled that the legislation
permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case will proceed before the trial court. On September 15, 2006, the British Columbia Court of Appeal rejected PMI and PM USA s motions seeking dismissal from the case on
jurisdictional grounds. In April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied PMI s and PM USA s motion seeking leave to appeal. Trial is scheduled to begin on September 6, 2010.       Junta de Andalucia, et al. v. Philip Morris Spain, et al., Court of First Instance, Madrid, Spain, filed February 21, 2002 . In May 2004, the Court of First
Instance dismissed the case, and plaintiffs appealed. In January 2006, the High Court of Appeal of Madrid dismissed plaintiffs  appeal. In July 2006, the Junta initiated proceedings in the Contentious Administrative Court challenging the
rejection of the Junta s formal request for reimbursement of health care costs of treating smokers. The Junta alleges that the Spanish tobacco companies, including Philip Morris Spain, are jointly liable for the health care costs. As provided
by court rules, the defendants filed notices with the Administrative Court that they are interested parties in the case. In September 2007, the plaintiffs filed their complaint in the Administrative Court. The Ministry of Economy has filed its
preliminary objections to the claim. In October 2007, the other co-defendants in the proceedings, including Philip Morris Spain, filed their comments in response to the Ministry of Economy s preliminary objections. In November 2007, the
Administrative Court dismissed the claim and plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration is pending.       The Attorney General of Lagos State, et al. v.
British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Lagos State, Lagos, Nigeria, filed April 30, 2007.  Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of
anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking and health related diseases for the next 20 years, various injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In June 2007, a subsidiary of PMI filed its preliminary objections regarding service of process.
      The Attorney General of Kano State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Kano State, Kano, Nigeria, filed May 9,
2007.  Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking and health related diseases for the next 20 years, various injunctive
relief, plus punitive damages. In June 2007, a subsidiary of PMI filed its preliminary objections regarding service of process.       The Attorney General of
Gombe State v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Gombe State, Gombe, Nigeria, filed May 18, 2007.  Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking related diseases for the past 20 years,
payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking and health related diseases for the next 20 years, various injunctive relief, plus punitive damages. In July 2007, a subsidiary of PMI filed its preliminary objections regarding service of
process.       The Attorney General of Oyo State, et al., v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., High Court of Oyo State, Ibidam, Nigeria,
filed May 30, 2007.  Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking and health related diseases for the next 20 years,
various injunctive relief,  

plus punitive damages. In July 2007, a subsidiary of PMI filed its preliminary objections regarding service of process.       The Attorney General of the Federation v. British American Tobacco (Nigeria) Limited, et al., Federal High Court, Abuja, Nigeria, filed July 25, 2007. 
Plaintiff seeks reimbursement for the cost of treating alleged smoking related diseases for the past 20 years, payment of anticipated costs of treating alleged smoking and health related diseases for the next 20 years, various injunctive relief,
plus punitive damages. PMI s subsidiary has not yet been served with the claim.       Public Civil Actions        Osorio v. Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda, et al., Federal Court of Sao Paolo, Brazil, filed September 2003.  Defendant filed its answer to the
complaint in June 2004.       Associacao dos Consumidores Explorados do Distrito Federal v. Philip Morris Brasil Industria e Comercio Ltda., State Court of
Brasilia, Brazil, filed April 14, 2006 . Plaintiff seeks a ban on the production and sale of cigarettes on the grounds that they are harmful to health. Plaintiff s complaint also requests a fine amounting to approximately $500,000 per
day be imposed should the ban be granted and defendant continues to produce or sell cigarettes. Defendant filed a response to the complaint in June 2006. The trial court dismissed the case in June 2007. Plaintiff has appealed.       Associacao dos Consumidores Explorados do Distrito Federal v. Sampoerna Tabacos America Latina Ltda., State Court of Brasilia, Brazil filed April 14, 2006 .
Plaintiff seeks a ban on the production and sale of cigarettes on the grounds that they are harmful to health. Plaintiff s complaint also requests a fine amounting to approximately $500,000 per day be imposed should the ban be granted and
defendant continues to produce or sell cigarettes. Defendant filed a response to the complaint in June 2006. The trial court dismissed the case in June 2007 and plaintiffs  appeal of the dismissal is pending.       Morales v. Philip Morris Colombia S.A. and Colombian Government, Administrative Court of Bogot , Colombia, filed February 2, 2007.  Plaintiff alleges
that Philip Morris Colombia violated the collective right to a healthy environment, public health rights, and the rights of consumers, and that the government failed to protect those rights. Plaintiff seeks various monetary damages and other relief,
including a ban on descriptors and a ban on cigarette advertising. Philip Morris Colombia filed its answer to the complaint in March 2007.       Garrido v.
Philip Morris Colombia S.A., Civil Court of Bogot  ,  Colombia, filed March 30, 2007.  Plaintiff seeks various forms of injunctive relief, including the ban of the use of  lights  descriptors, and requests that Philip
Morris Colombia be ordered to finance a national campaign against smoking. Philip Morris Colombia filed its answer to the complaint in April 2007.       Garrido v. Coltabaco (Garrido II), Civil Court of Bogot , Colombia, filed March 2007.  Plaintiff seeks various forms of injunctive relief, including the ban of the use of  lights  descriptors, and requests that
Coltabaco be ordered to finance a national campaign against smoking. Coltabaco, a subsidiary of PMI, filed its answer to the complaint in April 2007.       Guzman v. Coltabaco, et al., Administrative Court of Bogot , Colombia, filed May 8, 2007.  Plaintiff is seeking economic restitution to the country, an increase in sales tax for cigarettes, as well as various forms of
injunctive relief. Coltabaco, a subsidiary of PMI, filed its answer to the complaint in June 2007.       Asociaci n Argentina de Derecho de Danos v.
Massalin Particulares S.A., et al., Civil Court of Buenos Aires, Bueno Aires, Argentina, filed February 26, 2007 (served June 2007).  Plaintiff seeks the establishment of a relief fund for reimbursement of medical costs associated with
diseases allegedly caused by smoking. Massalin Particulares, a subsidiary of PMI, filed its answer to the complaint in September 2007.   

Consumer Awareness Enhancement Association v. TEKEL, et al., Istanbul Consumer Court, Istanbul, Turkey, served May
2007.  Plaintiff argues that cigarette manufacturers and importers should be banned from providing cigarettes to Turkish consumers. PHILSA, a subsidiary of PMI, filed its answer to the complaint in June 2007. The trial court dismissed the case in
October 2007. Plaintiff has appealed.       Medicare Secondary Payer Act Case        United Seniors Association v. Philip Morris, et al., District of Massachusetts, filed August 4, 2005.  In August 2006, the trial court granted defendants  motion to dismiss plaintiff s complaint.
In September 2006, plaintiff appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. In August 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit affirmed the district court s dismissal. In November 2007, plaintiffs
filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied on January 22, 2008.      LIGHTS/ULTRA
LIGHTS CASES      The following lists the Lights/Ultra Lights cases pending against ALG and/or its various subsidiaries and others as of February 15,
2008, and describes certain developments since November 1, 2007.       Aspinall, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. and Philip Morris Incorporated,
Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts, filed November 24, 1998 . In October 2001, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification, and defendants appealed. In May 2003, the single Justice sitting on behalf of the
Massachusetts Court of Appeals decertified the class. In August 2004, Massachusetts  highest court affirmed the trial court s ruling and reinstated the class certification order. In April 2006, plaintiffs filed a motion to have the court
redefine the class. In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on the state consumer protection statutory exemption and federal preemption. On motion of the parties, the trial court reported its decision
to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review, and the trial court proceedings are stayed pending completion of the appellate review. Motions for direct appellate review by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court were granted in April
2007. On January 31, 2008, the court invited the parties to address whether the case should be stayed pending the resolution of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.  In February 2008, the parties jointly agreed to stay
the case pending the resolution of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.       McClure, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. and
Philip Morris Incorporated, Circuit Court, Davidson County, Tennessee, filed January 19, 1999 . Plaintiffs  motion for class certification on behalf of all purchasers of  Marlboro Lights  in Tennessee is pending. In June 2006, PM
USA filed a motion to dismiss on federal preemption and consumer protection statutory exemption grounds.       Craft, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc.,
et al., Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed February 15, 2000 . In December 2003, the trial court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification. In September 2004, the court granted in part and denied in part PM
USA s motion for reconsideration. In August 2005, the Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court s class certification order. In September 2005, the case was removed to federal court. In March 2006, the federal trial court granted
plaintiffs  motion and remanded the case to the Circuit Court, City of St. Louis. In May 2006, the Missouri Supreme Court declined to review the trial court s class certification decision.       Hines, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida, filed February 23, 2001 . In
February 2002, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification, and defendants appealed. In December 2003, a Florida District Court of Appeal decertified the class. In March 2004, plaintiffs filed a motion for rehearing,  en
banc  review or certification to the Florida Supreme Court. In December 2004, the Florida Supreme Court stayed  

further proceedings pending the resolution of the  Engle  case discussed in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings . On January 14, 2008, the Florida
Supreme Court rejected plaintiffs  petition for further review.       Moore, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Marshall
County, West Virginia, filed September 17, 2001.        Curtis, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Fourth Judicial District Court,
Minnesota, filed November 28, 2001 . In January 2004, the Fourth Judicial District Court, Hennepin County denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification and defendants  motions for summary judgment. In November 2004, the trial
court granted plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration and ordered the certification of a class. In April 2005, the Minnesota Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for interlocutory review. In September 2005, the case was removed to
federal court. In February 2006, the federal court denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court. The case was stayed pending the outcome of  Dahl v. R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. , which was argued before the United States
Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit in December 2006. In February 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit issued its ruling in  Dahl , and reversed the federal district court s denial of plaintiffs  motion
to remand that case to the state trial court. On October 17, 2007, the district court remanded the case to state court. In January 2008, the case was stayed pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good. 
      Tremblay, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, Superior Court, Rockingham County, New Hampshire, filed March 29, 2002.  The case has been
consolidated with another Lights/Ultra Lights case and has been informally stayed.       Pearson v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court,
Multnomah County, Oregon, filed November 20, 2002 . In October 2005, plaintiffs  motion for class certification on behalf of all purchasers of  Marlboro Lights  in Oregon was denied. In addition, PM USA s motion for summary
judgment with respect to reliance  from the time that plaintiff learned of the alleged fraud and continued to purchase Lights  cigarettes was granted. In November 2005, plaintiffs filed a motion with the trial court to have its order
denying class certification certified for interlocutory appellate review. In March 2006, plaintiffs petitioned the Oregon Court of Appeals to review the trial court s order denying plaintiffs  motion for class certification. In October
2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals denied plaintiffs  petition for review. Plaintiffs did not file a petition for review of the denial of the class certification decision by the Oregon Supreme Court by the deadline for doing so. In February
2007, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption. In September 2007, the district court granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on express preemption under the Federal
Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal with the Oregon Court of Appeals. In February 2008, the parties filed a joint motion to hold the appeal in abeyance pending the United States Supreme Court s
decision in  Good.        Virden v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Hancock County, West Virginia, filed March 28, 2003.  
      Stern, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Superior Court, Middlesex County, New Jersey, filed April 4, 2003.  In March 2006, the court
granted PM USA s motion to strike plaintiffs  class certification motion, and plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration. A renewed motion for class certification was denied in November 2007. The parties have jointly agreed to stay the
case pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.        Arnold, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., Circuit Court,
Madison County, Illinois, filed May 5, 2003.        Watson, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Pulaski County, Arkansas, filed
May 29, 2003.  In January 2006, the court stayed all activity in the case pending the resolution of plaintiffs  petition for writ of certiorari filed with the United States Supreme Court. In June 2007, the United States Supreme
Court reversed the lower court rulings that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court. The Supreme Court rejected defendants  contention that the case must be  

tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute. The case was remanded to the state trial court in Arkansas. In December 2007, the court
rejected the parties  proposed stipulation to stay the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision on defendants  petition for writ of certiorari in  Good,  which was granted on January 18, 2008. A motion to
reconsider this denial is pending.       Holmes, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed August 18,
2003.  In June 2006, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment on preemption and consumer protection statutory exemption grounds. A joint motion to stay the case pending the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good  is pending.
      El-Roy, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel, filed January 18, 2004.  Plaintiffs 
motion for class certification is pending.       Schwab, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., United States District Court, Eastern District of New
York, filed May 11, 2004 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , for a discussion of this case.       Navon, et al. v. Philip Morris Products
USA, et al., District Court of Tel-Aviv/Jaffa, Israel, filed December 5, 2004 . This case has been stayed pending the resolution of class certification issues in  El-Roy v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al.         Miner, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Franklin County, Arkansas, filed December 29, 2004.  In December 2005, plaintiffs moved for
certification of a class composed of individuals who purchased  Marlboro Lights  or  Cambridge Lights  brands in Arizona, California, Colorado and Michigan. PM USA s motion for summary judgment is pending. After the motion was filed,
plaintiffs moved to voluntarily dismiss the case without prejudice, which PM USA opposed. The court then stayed the action pending the United States Supreme Court s ruling on plaintiffs  petition for writ of certiorari in  Watson,
 described above. In July 2007, the case was remanded to a state trial court in Arkansas. In August 2007, plaintiffs renewed their motion for class certification. In October 2007, the court denied PM USA s motion to dismiss the case on
procedural grounds and the court entered a case management order. In January 2008, the case was stayed pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.        Mulford, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States District Court, New Mexico, filed June 9, 2005 . On March 16, 2007, the federal district
court granted in part PM USA s motion for summary judgment, ruling that plaintiffs  claims of fraudulent concealment, failure to warn and warning neutralization are expressly preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.
The court otherwise denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment on express preemption under the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act, implied federal preemption and the statutory exemption from liability under the New Mexico Unfair
Practices Act, with respect to plaintiffs  claims that PM USA made false statements about lights cigarettes on its packages. On March 30, 2007, PM USA filed a motion for reconsideration of the part of the court s order denying PM
USA s motion for summary judgment. In March 2007, the federal district court denied plaintiffs  amended motion for class certification. In June 2007, plaintiffs renewed their motion for class certification. In January 2008, the case was
stayed pending the outcome of the United States Supreme Court s decision in  Good.        Good, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., United States
District Court, Maine, filed August 15, 2005.  In May 2006, the federal trial court granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims are preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising
Act and dismissed the case. In June 2006, plaintiffs appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. On August 31, 2007, the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit vacated the district court s grant of
PM USA s motion for summary judgment in the  Good  case on federal preemption grounds and remanded the case to district court. The district court stayed proceedings pending the ruling of the United States Supreme Court on defendants 
petition for a writ of certiorari, which was granted on January 18, 2008.   

CERTAIN OTHER TOBACCO-RELATED ACTIONS      The following lists certain other tobacco-related litigation pending against ALG and/or its various subsidiaries and others as of February 15, 2008, and describes certain developments since November 1, 2007.
      Tobacco Price Cases        Smith, et al. v. Philip
Morris Companies Inc., et al., District Court, Seward County, Kansas, filed February 9, 2000.  In November 2001, the court granted plaintiffs  motion for class certification. The case has been stayed pending the Kansas Supreme
Court s decision on defendants  petition for mandamus regarding certain discovery rulings by the trial court.       Romero, et al. v. Philip Morris
Companies Inc., et al., First Judicial District Court, Rio Arriba County, New Mexico, filed April 10, 2000 . Plaintiffs  motion for class certification was granted in April 2003. In February 2005, the New Mexico Court of Appeals
affirmed the class certification decision. In June 2006, defendants  motion for summary judgment was granted and the case was dismissed. In July 2006, plaintiffs appealed the trial court s grant of summary judgment.       Cases Under the California Business and Professions Code        Brown,
et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Superior Court, San Diego County, California, filed June 10, 1997.  In April 2001, the court granted in part plaintiffs  motion for class certification and certified a class
comprised of residents of California who smoked at least one of defendants  cigarettes between June 1993 and April 2001 and who were exposed to defendants  marketing and advertising activities in California. Certification was granted as to
plaintiffs  claims that defendants violated California Business and Professions Code Sections 17200 and 17500 pursuant to which plaintiffs allege that class members are entitled to reimbursement of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the
class period and injunctive relief barring activities allegedly in violation of the Business and Professions Code. In September 2004, the trial court granted defendants  motion for summary judgment as to plaintiffs  claims attacking
defendants  cigarette advertising and promotion and denied defendants  motion for summary judgment on plaintiffs  claims based on allegedly false affirmative statements. Plaintiffs  motion for rehearing was denied. In November
2004, defendants filed a motion to decertify the class based on a recent change in California law, which, in two July 2006 opinions, the California Supreme Court ruled applicable to pending cases. In March 2005, the court granted defendants 
motion. In April 2005, the court denied plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the order that decertified the class. In May 2005, plaintiffs appealed. In September 2006, the California Court of Appeal, Fourth Appellate District, affirmed the
trial court s order decertifying the class. In November 2006, the California Supreme Court accepted review of the appellate court s decision.       Daniels, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Superior Court, San Diego County, California, filed April 2, 1998.  In November 2000, the court granted the plaintiffs  motion for class certification on behalf of
minor California residents who smoked at least one cigarette between April 1994 and December 1999. Certification was granted as to plaintiffs  claims that defendants violated California Business and Professions Code Section 17200 pursuant
to which plaintiffs allege that class members are entitled to reimbursements of the costs of cigarettes purchased during the class period and injunctive relief barring activities allegedly in violation of the Business and Professions Code. In
September 2002, the court granted defendants  motions for summary judgment as to all claims in the case, and plaintiffs appealed. In October 2004, the California Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court s ruling. In
February 2005, the California Supreme Court agreed to hear plaintiffs  appeal. In August 2007, the California Supreme Court affirmed the dismissal of the  Daniels  class action on federal preemption grounds. In December 2007, plaintiffs
filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the United States Supreme Court.   

Gurevitch, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Los Angeles County, California, filed
May 20, 2004 . See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings , for a discussion of this case.       Reynolds v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States
District Court, Southern District, California, filed September 20, 2005 . In September 2005, a California consumer sued PM USA in a purported class action, alleging that PM USA violated certain California consumer protection laws in
connection with alleged expiration of  Marlboro  Miles  proofs of purchase, which could be used in accordance with the terms and conditions of certain time-limited promotions to acquire merchandise from  Marlboro  catalogues. PM
USA s motion to dismiss the case was denied in March 2006. In September 2006, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment as to plaintiff s claims for breach of the implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing. In October 2006, PM USA
filed a second summary judgment motion seeking dismissal of plaintiff s claims under certain California consumer protection statutes. In June 2007, the court denied PM USA s motions for summary judgment. In January 2008, PM USA s
application for interlocutory review by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit was granted.       MSA-Related Cases       In the following case in which PM USA is a defendant, plaintiffs have challenged the validity of legislation implementing the MSA .         Sanders, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., United States District Court, Northern District, California, filed June 9, 2004.  Defendants  motion
to dismiss the case was granted in March 2005 and the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed that dismissal on September 26, 2007. On January 25, 2008 Plaintiffs filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the
United States Supreme Court.      As discussed further in Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  there are other cases in a number of states in which
plaintiffs have challenged the MSA and/or legislation implementing it, but PM USA is not a defendant in these cases.       Non-Participating Manufacturer
Adjustment Proceedings       See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings,  for a description of these proceedings.       Public Ban Cost Recovery Action        Municipality of Haifa v. Dubek
Ltd., et al., District Court of Haifa, Israel, filed March 28, 2004.  This case is pending against Menache H. Eliachar Ltd., which is an indemnitee of a subsidiary of PMI. The Municipality of Haifa seeks to recover the costs it incurred
enforcing a public ban on smoking. The case was dismissed by the District Court of Haifa, and the plaintiff appealed to the Israeli Supreme Court. In December 2007, the plaintiff withdrew its appeal and the Supreme Court dismissed the case.
      Ignition Propensity Cases        Sarro v. Philip Morris
USA Inc., U.S. District Court, Massachusetts, filed December 20, 2007 . Plaintiff contends that a Marlboro cigarette caused a fire that led to an individual s death. Plaintiff seeks $250,000 for property damage and an unspecified amount
in damages for wrongful death.       Walker, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Nelson County, Kentucky, filed February 1,
2008 . Plaintiffs are the representatives and heirs of nine of the ten individuals who died in a house fire allegedly caused by a Marlboro Lights cigarette. Plaintiffs seek unspecified amounts in actual damages,  

punitive damages and interest. In addition to Philip Morris USA, the defendants named in the complaint include Altria Group and Philip Morris International.

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 16
 dex992.htm
 TRIAL SCHEDULE

Trial Schedule 

Exhibit 99.2       TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES      Below is a schedule setting forth by month the number of individual smoking and health
cases against PM USA that are currently scheduled for trial through the end of 2008.       2008       March (2)      May (2)      August (2)      September (2)      October (3)   

</EX-99.2>

