<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150225_10-K_edgar_data_764180_0000764180-15-000022_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>38895786</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>627793</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>11243260</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9433754</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>11620726</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5513750</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>120</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000764180-15-000022.hdr.sgml : 20150225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150225141007
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000764180-15-000022
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000764180
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CIGARETTES [2111]
		IRS NUMBER:				133260245
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08940
		FILM NUMBER:		15647013

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(804) 274-2200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALTRIA GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20030127

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000764180-15-000022.txt : 20150225

10-K
 1
 a2014form10-kq42014.htm
 FORM 10-K

2014 FORM 10-K (Q4 2014) 

UNITED STATES  
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
  Washington, D.C. 20549  
  FORM 10-K  
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2014 
  OR  
   For the transition period from                         to                           
  Commission File Number 1-08940  
  ALTRIA GROUP, INC.  
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  
   
 804-274-2200  
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
                                Title of each class                
    
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
    
      Common Stock, $0.33     1   /  3   par value 
    New York Stock Exchange 
   
              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.                 Yes         No 
      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.              Yes          No 
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days         Yes             No 
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files)           Yes           No 
      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K     o 
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
           Large accelerated filer                                                                                         Accelerated filer         
           Non-accelerated filer       (Do not check if smaller reporting company)            Smaller operating company     
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).          Yes            No 

As of June 30, 2014, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $83 billion based on the closing sale price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.  
   
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
               Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 20, 2015, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about April 9, 2015, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
      PART I 

Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    4 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    8 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    8 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    9 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    9 

PART II 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    10 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    12 
      Item 7. 
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    13 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    36 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    37 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    107 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    107 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    107 

PART III 

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    107 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    108 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    108 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    108 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    108 

PART IV 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    109 
       Signatures  
      
    114 

Table of Contents  

     Part I 
    Item 1.  Business. 
  General Development of Business  
     General:   Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged predominantly in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST LLC ( UST ), which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Altria Group, Inc. s other operating companies included Nu Mark LLC ( Nu Mark ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products, and Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases.  Other Altria Group, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to certain Altria Group, Inc. operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services Inc., which provides various support services, such as legal, regulatory, finance, human resources and external affairs, to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. also held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ), which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.  
     Source of Funds:    Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests.  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.   
  Financial Information About Segments    
  Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in an all other category due to the continued reduction of the lease portfolio of PMCC and the relative financial contribution of Altria Group, Inc. s innovative tobacco products businesses to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results.   
  Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of, and  

allocate resources to, the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments is defined as operating income before amortization of intangibles and general corporate expenses.  Interest and other debt expense, net, and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Net revenues and operating companies income (together with a reconciliation to earnings before income taxes) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in   Note 15  .   Segment Reporting   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 8 ).  Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in   Note 4  .   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 4   )  .    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in   Note 2  .   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 2   )  . 
    The relative percentages of operating companies income (loss) attributable to each reportable segment and the all other category were as follows:  

For items affecting the comparability of the relative percentages of operating companies income (loss) attributable to each reportable segment, see   Note 15  .   Segment Reporting   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 15   ). 
  Narrative Description of Business    
  Portions of the information called for by this Item are included in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -   Operating Results by Business Segment   of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Tobacco Space 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies include PM USA, USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST, Middleton and Nu Mark.  Altria Group Distribution Company provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies.   
  The products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries include smokeable tobacco products comprised of cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA and machine-made large  

1 

     Table of Contents  

     cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton; smokeless tobacco products, substantially all of which are manufactured and sold by USSTC; and innovative tobacco products, including e-vapor products manufactured and sold by Nu Mark.  
     Cigarettes:      PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States, with total cigarette shipment volume in the United States of approximately   125.4 billion   units in   2014  , a decrease of   3.0%   from   2013  .    Marlboro  , the principal cigarette brand of PM USA, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for over 35 years.  
     Cigars:      Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of which are located in the United States.  Middleton sources a portion of its cigars from an importer through a third-party contract manufacturing arrangement.  Total shipment volume for cigars was approximately   1.3 billion   units in   2014  , an increase of   6.1%   from   2013  .    Black   Mild   is the principal cigar brand of Middleton.   
     Smokeless tobacco products:      USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco ( MST ) products.  The smokeless products segment includes the premium brands,   Copenhagen   and   Skoal  , value brands,   Red Seal   and   Husky,   and   Marlboro   Snus, a premium PM USA spit-free smokeless tobacco product.  Substantially all of the smokeless tobacco products are manufactured and sold to customers in the United States.  Total smokeless products shipment volume was   793.3 million   units in   2014  , an increase of   0.7%   from   2013  . 
     Innovative tobacco products:    Nu Mark participates in the e-vapor category and has developed and commercialized other innovative tobacco products.  In addition, Nu Mark sources the production of its e-vapor products through overseas contract manufacturing arrangements.  In 2013, Nu Mark introduced   MarkTen   e-vapor products in Indiana and Arizona.  During 2014, Nu Mark expanded   MarkTen   nationally.  In April 2014, Nu Mark acquired the e-vapor business of Green Smoke, Inc. and its affiliates ( Green Smoke ), which has been selling e-vapor products since 2009.  For a further discussion of the acquisition of Green Smoke, see   Note 3  .   Acquisition of Green Smoke   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 3   ).  Further, in December 2013, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries entered into a series of agreements with Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) pursuant to which Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries provide an exclusive license to PMI to sell Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries  e-vapor products outside the United States, and PMI s subsidiaries provide an exclusive license to Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries to sell two of PMI s heated tobacco product technologies in the United States.   
     Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:      Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services. 
    The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product  

quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition.  Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions and other discounts, including coupons, product promotions and allowances for new products.   
  In June 2009, the President of the United States of America signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products; the authority to require disclosures of related information; and the authority to enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations.  The FSPTCA imposes restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products, including at retail.  The law also grants the FDA authority to extend the FSPTCA application, by regulation, to all other tobacco products, including cigars, pipe tobacco and electronic cigarettes.  In April 2014, the FDA issued proposed regulations for other tobacco products, which as proposed would include machine-made large cigars, e-vapor products (such as electronic cigarettes), pipe tobacco and chewable tobacco-derived nicotine products marketed and sold by some of our tobacco subsidiaries.  The proposed regulations would impose the FSPTCA regulatory framework, including the foregoing measures, on products manufactured, marketed and sold by Nu Mark and Middleton with potentially wide-ranging impact on their businesses.  PM USA and USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of the FSPTCA, and the cost is being allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  PM USA, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions. 
  In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers.  Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts.  PM USA also purchases a portion of its United States tobacco requirements through leaf merchants.  
  Tobacco production in the United States was historically subject to government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the  USDA ).  In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ), which applied to PM USA, Middleton and USSTC, was signed into law. FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders.  The cost of the 10-year buy-out, which expired after the third quarter of 2014, was approximately $9.5 billion and was paid by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product subject to federal excise tax ( FET ).  The cost was allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  As  

2 

     Table of Contents  

     a result of FETRA, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.3 billion during the year ended December 31, 2014 and approximately $0.4 billion for each of the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012.  
  The quota buy-out and the expiration of the quota buy-out did not have a material impact on Altria Group, Inc. s 2014 consolidated results.  
  USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants.   
  Middleton purchases burley and dark air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf merchants.  Middleton does not have a contract growing program. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.  See Item 1A.  Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 1A ) and   Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products   in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of risks associated with tobacco supply.  
  Wine 
  Ste. Michelle is a producer of premium varietal and blended table wines.  Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily   Chateau Ste. Michelle  ,   Columbia Crest   and   14 Hands  ,     and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine     regions and foreign countries.  Ste. Michelle s total   2014   wine shipment volume of approximately   8.4 million   cases increased   4.8%   from   2013  .   
  Ste. Michelle     holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns   Stag s Leap Wine Cellars   in Napa Valley.  Ste. Michelle also owns   Conn Creek   in Napa Valley and   Erath   in Oregon.  In addition, Ste. Michelle imports and markets   Antinori  ,   Torres   and   Villa Maria Estate   wines and   Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte   in the United States.   
     Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:      Key elements of Ste. Michelle s strategy are expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers, and a focus on improving product mix to higher-priced, premium products.  
  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers.  Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.  Substantially all of Ste. Michelle s sales occur through state-licensed distributors.   
  Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  Further  

regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. 
  Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources.  Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production.  At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements. 
  Financial Services Business 
  In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize its operating results and cash flows from its existing lease portfolio activities and asset sales.  For further information on PMCC s finance assets, see   Note 7  .   Finance Assets, net   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 7   ). 
  Other Matters 
     Customers:      The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately   27%   of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .  Substantially all of these net revenues were reported in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments.   
  Sales to   three   distributors accounted for approximately   67%   of net revenues for the wine segment for the year ended December 31, 2014 and   66%   for each of the years ended December 31,   2013   and   2012  .  
     Employees:    At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries employed approximately 9,000 people.   
     Executive Officers of Altria Group, Inc.:    The disclosure regarding executive officers is included in Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance -   Executive Officers as of February 13, 2015   of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
     Research and Development:    Research and development expense for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   is set forth in   Note 17  .   Additional Information   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  
     Intellectual Property:    Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by registration or otherwise.  In addition, as of   December 31, 2014  , the portfolio of over 650 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc. s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses.  However, no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria Group, Inc. s business or its tobacco businesses as of   December 31, 2014  .  Altria Group, Inc. s businesses also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures.  Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses. 

3 

     Table of Contents  

        Environmental Regulation:      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States:  The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party.  Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations.  As discussed in   Note 2  ,   Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.  Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future.  In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows. 
  Financial Information About Geographic Areas  
  Substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s net revenues are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years and substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s long-lived assets are located in the United States. 
  Available Information  
  Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).  Investors may read and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc. s SEC filings. 
  Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com) its Annual Report on  

Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group, Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  Investors can access Altria Group, Inc. s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.  
  The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC. 
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors  
  The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial position and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
    
  We    (1)    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including earnings guidance and other statements contained in filings with the SEC, reports to security holders, press releases and investor webcasts.  You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,   believes,   will,   estimates,   forecasts,   intends,   projects,   goals,   objectives,   guidance,   targets  and other words of similar meaning.  You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. 
  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be inaccurate.  Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.  You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements.  ___________________________________________________ 
   1    This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context. 

4 

     Table of Contents  

     We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  sections preceding our discussion of operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 7 ).  You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors.  Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.  We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except as required by applicable law. 
  Unfavorable litigation outcomes could materially adversely affect the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries.    
  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband-related claims, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors. 
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation.  Damages claimed in some tobacco-related or other litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars.  The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.  In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several.  In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts.  Furthermore, in those cases where plaintiffs are successful, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may also be required to pay interest and attorneys  fees. 
  Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases.  This risk has been substantially reduced given that 46 states and Puerto Rico now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.  As discussed in Note 18,   Contingencies   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 ( Note 18 ), tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap statute in  

several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well.  Such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court.  Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges. 
    In certain litigation, PM USA faces potentially significant non-monetary remedies.  For example, in the lawsuit brought by the United States Department of Justice, discussed in Note 18, the district court did not impose monetary penalties but ordered significant non-monetary remedies, including the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media.   
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation.  Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty, and significant challenges remain. 
  It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.  Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts.  Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.  However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.  See Item 3.  Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 3 ), Note 18 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation. 
  Significant federal, state and local governmental actions, including actions by the FDA, and various private sector actions may continue to have an adverse impact on our tobacco subsidiaries  businesses. 
  As described in   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   in Item 7,     PM USA faces significant governmental and private sector actions, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of tobacco use and efforts seeking to hold PM USA responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.  These actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels. 
  Actions by the FDA, other federal, state or local governments or agencies, including those actions described in   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   in Item 7, may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult tobacco consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco  

5 

     Table of Contents  

     products or products with claims of reduced risk, restrict communications to adult tobacco consumers, restrict the ability to differentiate tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, require the recall or removal of tobacco products from the marketplace (including without limitation as a result of product contamination), interrupt manufacturing or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, or restrict or prevent the use of specified tobacco products in certain locations or the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments.  Any one or more of these actions may have a material adverse impact on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Tobacco products are subject to substantial taxation, which could have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries.  
  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes, and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and local levels. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of our tobacco subsidiaries through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. Such shifts may have an adverse impact on the reported share performance of tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. For further discussion, see   Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Excise Taxes   in Item 7  . 
  Our tobacco businesses face significant competition and their failure to compete effectively could have an adverse effect on the business of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Each of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories. Settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States, among other factors, have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases. PM USA faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to these settlements. These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states. Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and imports of foreign lowest priced brands. USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category and has  

experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands. In the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars manufactured offshore. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may be unsuccessful in anticipating changes in adult consumer preferences, responding to changes in consumer purchase behavior or managing through difficult economic conditions. 
  Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition and changes in adult consumer preferences.  To be successful, they must continue to: 
     promote brand equity successfully; 
             
    anticipate and respond to new and evolving adult consumer preferences; 
                
    develop, manufacture, market and distribute products that appeal to adult consumers (including, where appropriate, through arrangements with, or investments in, third parties);  
        improve productivity; and 
             
    protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases. 
     See   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   -   Summary   in Item 7 for additional discussion concerning evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences, including increased consumer awareness of, and expenditures on, e-vapor products.  Continued growth of this product category could further contribute to reductions in cigarette consumption levels and cigarette industry sales volume and could adversely affect the growth rates of other tobacco products. 
  The willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  In periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products.  Our tobacco and wine subsidiaries work to broaden their brand portfolios to compete effectively with lower-priced products. 
  Our financial services business (conducted through PMCC) holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities.  Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions.  If parties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries may be unsuccessful in developing and commercializing innovative tobacco products that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products and that appeal to adult tobacco consumers. 

6 

     Table of Contents  

     Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries continue to develop and commercialize innovative tobacco products, including new product technologies that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers (within and outside the United States) products that meet their taste expectations and evolving preferences. Examples include tobacco-containing and nicotine-containing products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. These efforts may include arrangements with, or investments in, third parties.  Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts, which would have an adverse effect on the ability to grow new revenue streams.  
  Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing or sale of products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, the speed with which they may make such determinations or whether regulators will impose an unduly burdensome regulatory framework on such products.  Nor can we predict whether adult tobacco consumers  purchasing decisions would be affected by such claims if permitted.  Adverse developments on any of these matters could negatively impact the commercial viability of such products.   
  If our tobacco subsidiaries do not succeed in their efforts to develop and commercialize innovative tobacco products or to obtain regulatory approval for the marketing or sale of products with claims of reduced risk, but one or more of their competitors do succeed, our tobacco subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage.  
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries  ability to grow new revenue streams may be limited if our operating companies are unable to move successfully into complementary products or processes.   
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have adjacency growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into complementary products or processes.  We cannot guarantee that these strategies, or any products introduced in connection with these strategies, will be successful.  See the immediately preceding paragraph for a related discussion concerning new product technologies. 
  Significant changes in tobacco leaf price, availability or quality could have an adverse effect on the profitability and business of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could adversely affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business.  For further discussion, see   Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Price, Availability and Quality      of Agricultural Products   in Item 7  . 
  Because Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries rely on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers, an extended disruption at a facility or in service by a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or  

financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers.  A natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing operations of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries or the operations of any significant suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries.  An extended disruption in operations experienced by one or more of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Altria Group, Inc. may be unable to attract and retain the best talent due to the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco control actions. 
  Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco regulation and control actions.  The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance.  As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the best talent. 
  Acquisitions or other events may adversely affect Altria Group, Inc. s credit rating, and Altria Group, Inc. may not achieve its anticipated strategic or financial objectives. 
  Altria Group, Inc. from time to time considers acquisitions and may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement.  Although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or other event could impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings.  Furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings. 
  Disruption and uncertainty in the debt capital markets could adversely affect Altria Group, Inc. s access to the debt capital markets, earnings and dividend rate. 
  Access to the debt capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs.  Disruption and uncertainty in the credit and debt capital markets and any resulting adverse impact on credit availability, pricing and/or credit terms may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate. 

7 

     Table of Contents  

     Altria Group, Inc. s reported earnings from and carrying value of its equity investment in SABMiller may be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. 
  For purposes of financial reporting, the earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in SABMiller are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies.  During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar against these currencies, our reported earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in SABMiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.  The earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in SABMiller are also subject to the risks encountered by SABMiller in its business. 
  Altria Group, Inc. may be required to write down intangible assets, including goodwill, due to impairment, which would reduce earnings. 
  We periodically calculate the fair value of our reporting units and intangible assets to test for impairment.  This calculation may be affected by several factors, including general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing adult consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes.  If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.  
  Competition, unfavorable changes in grape supply and new governmental regulations or revisions to existing governmental regulations could adversely affect Ste. Michelle s wine business. 
  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established domestic and international companies.  The adequacy of Ste. Michelle s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop conditions, particularly in eastern Washington.  Supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste. Michelle s sales.  In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business.  For further discussion, see   Wine Segment - Business Environment   in Item 7. 
  The failure of Altria Group, Inc. s information systems to function as intended, or the penetration by outside parties intent on disrupting business processes, could result in significant costs, loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data and reputational harm. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries use information systems to help manage business processes, collect and interpret business  

data and communicate internally and externally with employees, investors, suppliers, trade customers, adult tobacco consumers and others.  Many of these information systems are managed by third-party service providers.  We have backup systems and business continuity plans in place and we take care to protect our systems and data from unauthorized access.  Nevertheless, failure of our systems to function as intended, or penetration of our systems by outside parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or otherwise disrupting business processes, could result in loss of revenue, assets or personal or other sensitive data, cause damage to the reputation of our companies and their brands and result in legal challenges and significant remediation and other costs to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
  Unfavorable outcomes of any governmental investigations could materially affect the businesses of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
  From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.  We cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our  business could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.   
  Expanding international business operations subjects Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, and violations of such laws or regulations could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs. 
  While Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged in business activities in the United States, they do engage (directly or indirectly) in certain international business activities that are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws prohibiting bribery and corruption.  Although we have a Code of Conduct and a compliance system designed to prevent and detect violations of applicable law, no system can provide assurance that it will always protect against improper actions by employees or third parties.  Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs. 
    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 
  None.  
    Item 2.  Properties. 
  The property in Richmond, Virginia that serves as the headquarters facility for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, USSTC, Middleton, Nu Mark and certain other subsidiaries is under lease.   
  At   December 31, 2014  , the smokeable products segment used four manufacturing and processing facilities.  PM USA owns and operates two tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities located in the Richmond, Virginia area that are used in the manufacturing and processing of cigarettes.  Middleton owns and operates two manufacturing and processing facilities - one in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania and one in Limerick, Pennsylvania  

8 

     Table of Contents  

     - that are used in the manufacturing and processing of cigars and pipe tobacco.  In addition, PM USA owns a research and technology center in Richmond, Virginia that is leased to an affiliate, Altria Client Services Inc.   
  At   December 31, 2014  , the smokeless products segment used four smokeless tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities located in Franklin Park, Illinois; Hopkinsville, Kentucky; Nashville, Tennessee; and Richmond, Virginia, all of which are owned and operated by USSTC.   
  At   December 31, 2014  , the wine segment used 11 wine-making facilities - seven in Washington, three in California and one in Oregon.  All of these facilities are owned and operated by Ste. Michelle, with the exception of a facility that is leased by Ste. Michelle in Washington.  In addition, in order to support the production of its wines, the wine segment used vineyards in Washington, California and Oregon which are leased or owned by Ste. Michelle.  
  The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate for present needs.  
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings.     
  The information required by this Item is included in   Note 18   and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended December 31, 2014 were filed on Form 8-K on January 30, 2015 (such consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are also included in Item 8).  The following summarizes certain developments in Altria Group, Inc. s litigation since the filing of such Form 8-K.  
  Recent Developments 
  Smoking and Health Litigation 
     Tentative Agreement to Resolve Federal   Engle   Progeny Cases: 
      On February 25, 2015, PM USA, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and Lorillard Tobacco Company reached a tentative agreement to resolve approximately 415 pending federal   Engle   progeny cases (the  Agreement ).  Under the terms of the Agreement, PM USA will pay $42.5 million.  PM USA will record a pre-tax provision of $42.5 million in the first quarter of 2015.  Federal cases that were in trial as of February 25, 2015 and those that have previously reached final verdict are not included in the Agreement.    Engle   progeny lawsuits pending in Florida state courts are also not part of the Agreement. 
      The Agreement is conditioned on approval by all federal-court plaintiffs in the cases resolved by the Agreement or as the parties otherwise agree.  On February 25, 2015, the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida issued an order staying all upcoming federal trials pending final approval of the Agreement.  
     Engle   Progeny Trial Results: 
  In   Caprio  , on February 24, 2015, a Broward County jury returned a partial verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM  

USA, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company, Lorillard Tobacco Company and Liggett Group LLC.  The jury found against defendants on class membership allocating 25% of the fault to PM USA. The jury also found $559,172 in economic damages. The jury deadlocked with respect to the intentional torts, certain elements of compensatory damages and punitive damages.  
      In   McKeever  , on February 20, 2015, a Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding approximately $5.78 million in compensatory damages and allocating   6  0% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately $3.48 million).  The jury also awarded plaintiff approximately $11.63 million in punitive damages.  However, the jury found in favor of PM USA on the statute of repose defense to plaintiff s intentional tort and punitive damages claims.  The Florida Supreme Court is currently considering the applicability of the statue of repose defense in   Engle   progeny cases. 
  In   McMannis  , a Charlotte County jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA on February 19, 2015. 
  In   Landau  , on February 19, 2015, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company and Lorillard Tobacco Company awarding $100,000 in compensatory damages.  One defendant settled the case.     
  In   Sowers  , a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of PM USA on February 11, 2015. 
  In   Boatright  , on February 9, 2015, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal. 
  Medical Monitoring Cases 
    Trial in the   Donovan   case is scheduled for January 25, 2016.  
   Lights/Ultra-Lights  Cases 
  The re-trial in the   Larsen   case is scheduled to begin on February 22, 2016. 
    In the   Price   case, on February 9, 2015, plaintiffs filed a new motion seeking recusal or disqualification of Justice Karmeier, one of the Illinois Supreme Court justices. 

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures. 
  Not applicable. 

9 

       Table of Contents  

   Part II 
    Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.     
  The principal stock exchange on which Altria Group, Inc. s common stock (par value $0.33 1/3 per share) is listed is the New York Stock Exchange.  At February 13, 2015, there were approximately 74,000 holders of record of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock.  
  Performance Graph 
  The graph below compares the cumulative total shareholder return of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock for the last five years with the cumulative total return for the same period of the S P 500 Index and the Altria Group, Inc. Peer Group Index    (1)   .  The graph assumes the investment of $100 in common stock and each of the indices as of the market close on December 31, 2009 and the reinvestment of all dividends on a quarterly basis.   

Source: Bloomberg -  Total Return Analysis  calculated on a daily basis and assumes reinvestment of dividends as of the ex-dividend date. 
   (1)   The Altria Group, Inc. Peer Group consists of 13 U.S.-headquartered consumer product companies that are competitors to Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies subsidiaries or that have been selected on the basis of revenue or market capitalization: Campbell Soup Company, The Coca-Cola Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, ConAgra Foods, Inc., General Mills, Inc.,  The Hershey Company, Kellogg Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Mondel z International, Inc., Kraft Foods Group, Inc., Lorillard, Inc., PepsiCo, Inc. and Reynolds American Inc. 
  Note - On October 1, 2012, Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) spun off Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (KRFT) to its shareholders and then changed its name from Kraft Foods Inc. to Mondel z International, Inc. (MDLZ). 
      
  10 

     Table of Contents  

   Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the Quarter Ended December 31, 2014 
  Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors (the  Board of Directors ), authorized a   $1.0 billion   share repurchase program in July 2014 (the  July 2014 share repurchase program ), which Altria Group, Inc. expects to complete by the end of 2015.  The timing of share repurchases under the July 2014 share repurchase program depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors, and the program remains subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
    
  Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase activity for each of the three months in the period ended December 31, 2014, was as follows:  

(1)   
    The total number of shares purchased include (a) shares purchased under the July 2014 share repurchase program (which totaled 543,000 shares in October, 2,112,000 shares in November and 2,585,000 shares in December) and (b) shares withheld by Altria Group, Inc. in an amount equal to the statutory withholding taxes for holders who vested in restricted and deferred stock, and forfeitures of restricted stock for which consideration was paid in connection with termination of employment of certain employees (which totaled 248 shares in October and 288,672 shares in December). 
       
  The other information called for by this Item is included in   Note 20  .   Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  

11 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. 
  (in millions of dollars, except per share and employee data) 

The Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 and Item 8. 

12 

       Table of Contents  

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
    
    The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8, and the discussion of cautionary factors that may affect future results in Item 1A.  
  Description of the Company 
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included PM USA, which is engaged predominantly in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; Middleton, which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST, which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including USSTC and Ste. Michelle, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Altria Group, Inc. s other operating companies included Nu Mark, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products, and PMCC, a wholly-owned subsidiary that maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases.  Other Altria Group, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to certain Altria Group, Inc. operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services Inc., which provides various support services, such as legal, regulatory, finance, human resources and external affairs, to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  In addition, Nu Mark and Middleton use third-party contract manufacturing arrangements in the manufacture of their products.  Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests.   
  At   December 31, 2014  ,  Altria Group, Inc. also held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller, which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.  Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.   
  Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in an all other category due to the continued reduction of the lease portfolio of PMCC and the relative financial contribution of Altria Group, Inc. s innovative tobacco products businesses to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results. 

Executive Summary 
  The following executive summary is intended to provide significant highlights of the Discussion and Analysis that follows. 
  Consolidated Results of Operations  
  The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) attributable to Altria Group, Inc. for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , from the year ended   December 31, 2013  , were due primarily to the following: 

See the discussion of events affecting the comparability of statement of earnings amounts in the Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.  
             
    Fewer Shares Outstanding:    Fewer shares outstanding during 2014 compared with 2013 were due primarily to shares repurchased by Altria Group, Inc. under its share repurchase programs. 
                
    Change in Tax Rate:    The change in tax rate was due primarily to a reduction in certain consolidated tax benefits in 2013 resulting from the 2013 debt tender offer, and an increased recognition of foreign tax credits in 2014 primarily associated with SABMiller dividends.  
                
    Operations:    The increase of   $238 million   in operations shown in the table above was due primarily to the following: 
                
    higher income from the smokeable products segment; and  
        lower interest and other debt expense, net; 
  partially offset by: 

13 

     Table of Contents  

higher investment spending in the innovative tobacco products businesses; and 
        lower income from the financial services business. 
  For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business Segment sections of the following Discussion and Analysis. 
  2015 Forecasted Results 
  In January 2015, Altria Group, Inc. forecasted that its 2015 full-year adjusted diluted EPS growth rate is expected to be in the range of 7% to 9% over 2014 full-year adjusted diluted EPS.  This forecasted growth rate excludes the net expenses in the table below.  
  The factors described in Item 1A represent continuing risks to this forecast. 
  Expense (Income), Net Excluded from Adjusted Diluted EPS 

1    The 2015 amount represents a provision that will be recorded by PM USA in the first quarter of 2015 related to the tentative agreement to resolve approximately 415 pending federal   Engle   progeny cases.   
  See Item 3. 
  Altria Group, Inc. reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ).  Altria Group, Inc. s management reviews certain financial results, including diluted EPS, on an adjusted basis, which exclude certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations.  These items may include, for example, loss on early extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges, SABMiller special items, certain tax items, charges associated with tobacco and health litigation items, and settlements of, and determinations made in connection with, disputes with certain states and territories related to the non-participating manufacturer ( NPM ) adjustment provision under the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) for the years 2003-2012 (such settlements and determinations are referred to collectively as  NPM Adjustment Items  and are more fully described in   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in Note 18).  Altria Group, Inc. s management does not view any of these special items to be part of Altria Group, Inc. s sustainable results as they may be highly variable, are difficult to predict and can distort underlying business trends and results.  Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that these adjusted financial measures provide useful  

insight into underlying business trends and results and provide a more meaningful comparison of year-over-year results.  Adjusted financial measures are used by management and regularly provided to Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker for planning, forecasting and evaluating business and financial performance, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee compensation targets.  These adjusted financial measures are not consistent with U.S. GAAP, and should thus be considered as supplemental in nature and not considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s full-year adjusted diluted EPS guidance excludes the impact of certain income and expense items, including those items noted in the preceding paragraph.  Altria Group, Inc. s management cannot estimate on a forward-looking basis the impact of these items on Altria Group, Inc. s reported diluted EPS because these items, which could be significant, are difficult to predict and may be highly variable.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. does not provide a corresponding U.S. GAAP measure for, or a reconciliation to, its adjusted diluted EPS guidance.     
  Discussion and Analysis 
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
  Note 2   includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements.  In most instances, Altria Group, Inc. must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under U.S. GAAP. 
  The preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known.  Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between Altria Group, Inc. s estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods, used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements: 
     Consolidation:    The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. exercises significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
     Revenue Recognition:    Altria Group, Inc. s businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to  

14 

     Table of Contents  

     customers, upon shipment of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers.  Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized.  Altria Group, Inc. s businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in net revenues.  Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales. 
     Depreciation, Amortization, Impairment Testing and Asset Valuation:    Altria Group, Inc. depreciates property, plant and equipment and amortizes its definite-lived intangible assets using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to 25 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years. Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives up to 25 years. 
  Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.  Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists.  These analyses are affected by general economic conditions and projected growth rates.  For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable.  If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value.  Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.  Altria Group, Inc. also reviews the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed. 
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded by Altria Group, Inc. at   December 31, 2014   relate primarily to the acquisitions of Green Smoke in 2014, UST in 2009 and Middleton in 2007.  Altria Group, Inc. conducts a required annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would require Altria Group, Inc. to perform an interim review.  If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, goodwill is considered impaired.  The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the implied fair value.  If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, the intangible  

asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. 
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, by reporting unit at   December 31, 2014   were as follows: 

During   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , Altria Group, Inc. completed its quantitative annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and no impairment charges resulted. 
  At December 31, 2014, (i) the estimated fair values of the indefinite-lived intangible assets within the smokeless products, cigars and wine reporting units (except for the   Skoal   trademark in the smokeless products reporting unit and the   Columbia Crest   trademark in the wine reporting     unit) substantially exceeded their carrying values, (ii) the carrying values of the   Skoal   and   Columbia Crest   trademarks were $3.9 billion and $54 million, respectively, and (iii) the estimated fair value of the smokeless products reporting unit did not substantially exceed its carrying value.   
  At December 31, 2014, the estimated fair value of the   Skoal   trademark exceeded its carrying value by approximately 17%, and the estimated fair value of the smokeless products reporting unit exceeded its carrying value by approximately 20%.  In the smokeless products reporting unit, 2014 results for   Skoal   were impacted by strategies to enhance   Skoal   s equity and targeted investments to narrow price gaps, which are expected to strengthen the brand over the long term.  In addition, USSTC estimates that the smokeless products category volume growth rate slowed to approximately 2% for 2014 as compared to approximately 5.5% for 2013.  USSTC continues to believe that the smokeless category s growth rate is best determined over a longer time horizon and will continue to monitor industry volume closely. 
  In 2014, Altria Group, Inc. used an income approach to estimate the fair values of its reporting units and its indefinite-lived intangible assets.  The income approach reflects the discounting of expected future cash flows to their present value at a rate of return that incorporates the risk-free rate for the use of those funds, the expected rate of inflation and the risks associated with realizing expected future cash flows.  The average discount rate used in performing the valuations was approximately 10%. 
  In performing the 2014 discounted cash flow analysis, Altria Group, Inc. made various judgments, estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which were volume, income, growth rates and discount rates.  The analysis incorporated assumptions used in Altria Group, Inc. s long-term financial forecast and also included market participant assumptions regarding the highest and best use of Altria Group, Inc. s indefinite-lived intangible assets.  Assumptions are also  

15 

     Table of Contents  

     made for perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term financial forecast.  Fair value calculations are sensitive to changes in these estimates and assumptions, some of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside of Altria Group, Inc. s control. 
  Although Altria Group, Inc. s discounted cash flow analysis is based on assumptions that are considered reasonable and based on the best available information at the time that the discounted cash flow analysis is developed, there is significant  
  judgment used in determining future cash flows.  The following factors have the most potential to impact expected future cash flows and, therefore, Altria Group, Inc. s impairment conclusions:  general economic conditions; federal, state and local regulatory developments; changes in category growth rates as a result of changing consumer preferences; success of planned new product introductions; competitive activity; and tobacco-related taxes. 
  While Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that the estimated fair values of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset are reasonable, actual performance in the short-term or long-term could be significantly different from forecasted performance, which could result in impairment charges in future periods. 
  For additional information on goodwill and other intangible assets, see   Note 4  . 
     Marketing Costs:    Altria Group, Inc. s businesses promote their products with consumer engagement programs, consumer incentives and trade promotions.  Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives, event marketing and volume-based incentives.  Consumer engagement programs are expensed as incurred.  Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues, a portion of which is based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates.  For interim reporting purposes, consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year. 
     Contingencies:    As discussed in   Note 18   and Item 3, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  In 1998, PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims.  PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously entered into agreements to settle similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ).  PM USA s portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its relative share of the settling manufacturers  domestic  

cigarette shipments, including roll-your-own cigarettes, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due.  PM USA, USSTC and Middleton were also subject to payment obligations imposed by FETRA.  The FETRA payment obligations expired after the third quarter of 2014.  In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA.  Payments under the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and the FDA user fees are based on variable factors, such as volume, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales.  As a result of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded approximately $4.9 billion, $4.4 billion and $5.1 billion of charges to cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  The 2014 and 2013 amounts included reductions to cost of sales of $43 million and $664 million, respectively, related to the NPM Adjustment Items discussed further below and in   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  .  In addition, the 2014 amount included a decrease in the charge to cost of sales of approximately $100 million, reflecting the expiration of the obligations imposed by FETRA after the third quarter of 2014. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except to the extent discussed in   Note 18   and Item 3:  (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.  Litigation defense costs are expensed as incurred and included in marketing, administration and research costs on the consolidated statements of earnings.   
     Employee Benefit Plans:    As discussed in   Note 16  .   Benefit Plans   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 16   ), Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance).  Altria Group, Inc. records annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP, which include various actuarial assumptions as to discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, mortality, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates.  Altria Group, Inc. reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so.  Any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods.   

16 

     Table of Contents  

     Altria Group, Inc. recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and records as a component of other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of deferred income taxes, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.     
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate assumptions for its pension and postretirement plans decreased to   4.1%   and   4.0%  , respectively, from 4.9% and 4.8%, respectively, at   December 31, 2013  .  In addition, at December 31, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. updated its mortality assumptions to reflect longer life expectancy for its defined benefit pension plan and postretirement health care plan participants.  Altria Group, Inc. presently anticipates an increase of approximately $100 million in its 2015 pre-tax pension and postretirement expense versus 2014, not including amounts in each year, if any, related to termination, settlement and curtailment.  This anticipated increase is due primarily to the impact of the updated mortality assumptions ($70 million).  The impact of the lower discount rate was largely offset by the impact of higher than expected returns on plan assets.  A 50 basis point decrease (increase) in Altria Group, Inc. s discount rates would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement expense by approximately $52 million.  Similarly, a 50 basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension expense by approximately $34 million.  See   Note 16   for a sensitivity discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates. 
     Income Taxes:    Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.  Altria Group, Inc. s deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  Altria Group, Inc. records a valuation allowance when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.    
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a benefit for uncertain tax positions when a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities.  The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.        Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes on its consolidated statements of earnings. 
  As discussed in   Note 14  .   Income Taxes   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 14   ), Altria Group, Inc. recognized income tax benefits and charges in the consolidated statements of earnings during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   as a result of various tax events. 
     Leasing:    Substantially all of PMCC s net revenues in   2014   related to income on leveraged leases and related gains on asset sales.  Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially  

recorded as unearned income, which is included in the line item finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances.  As discussed in   Note 7  , PMCC lessees are affected by bankruptcy filings, credit rating changes and financial market conditions. 
  PMCC s investment in leases is included in the line item finance assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheets as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  .  At   December 31, 2014  , PMCC s  
  net finance receivables of approximately $1.7 billion, which are included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rents receivable ($3.4 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($0.8 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($2.1 billion) and unearned income ($0.4 billion).  The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC.  As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets.  Finance assets, net, of $1.6 billion at   December 31, 2014   also included an allowance for losses. 
  Estimated residual values represent PMCC s estimate at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms.  The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management, which includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry.  If necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values.  In 2014 and 2012, PMCC s annual review of estimated residual values resulted in a decrease of $63 million and $19 million, respectively, to unguaranteed residual values.  These decreases in unguaranteed residual values resulted in a reduction to PMCC s net revenues of   $26 million   and   $8 million   in 2014 and 2012, respectively.  There were   no   such adjustments in 2013. 
  PMCC considers rents receivable past due when they are beyond the grace period of their contractual due date.  PMCC stops recording income ( non-accrual status ) on rents receivable when contractual payments become 90 days past due or earlier if management believes there is significant uncertainty of collectability of rent payments, and resumes recording income when collectability of rent payments is reasonably certain.  Payments received on rents receivable that are on non-accrual status are used to reduce the rents receivable balance.  Write-offs to the allowance for losses are recorded when amounts are deemed to be uncollectible.  There were no rents receivable on non-accrual status at   December 31, 2014  . 
  To the extent that rents receivable due to PMCC may be uncollectible, PMCC records an allowance for losses against its finance assets.  Losses on such leases are recorded when probable and estimable.  PMCC regularly performs a systematic assessment of each individual lease in its portfolio to determine potential credit or collection issues that might indicate impairment.  Impairment takes into consideration both the probability of default and the likelihood of recovery if  

17 

     Table of Contents  

     default were to occur.  PMCC considers both quantitative and qualitative factors of each investment when performing its assessment of the allowance for losses.  For further discussion, see   Note 7  . 
  Consolidated Operating Results   

  As discussed further in   Note 15  , Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments is defined as operating income before amortization of intangibles and general corporate expenses.  Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze the business performance and trends of the various business segments. 
  The following events that occurred during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012   affected the comparability of statement of earnings amounts.  
     NPM Adjustment Items:        For the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, pre-tax income for NPM Adjustment Items was recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of  

earnings as follows: 

The amounts shown in the table above for the smokeable products segment were recorded by PM USA as reductions to costs of sales, which increased operating companies income in the smokeable products segment.  For further discussion, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  . 
     Tobacco and Health Litigation Items:    For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, pre-tax charges related to certain tobacco and health litigations items were recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows: 

During the second quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA recorded an aggregate pre-tax charge of $31 million in marketing, administration and research costs for the estimated costs of implementing the corrective communications remedy in connection with the federal government s lawsuit against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.  For further discussion, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government Lawsuit   in   Note 18  . 
     Asset Impairment, Exit, Integration and Acquisition-Related Costs:     Pre-tax asset impairment, exit, integration and acquisition-related costs for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were $21 million, $11 million and $61 million, respectively.   
  For 2014, these costs consisted primarily of integration and acquisition-related costs of $28 million related to the acquisition of Green Smoke, partially offset by a pre-tax gain of $10 million from the sale of PM USA s Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility during the second quarter of 2014.  For further discussion of the Green Smoke acquisition, see   Note 3  . 
  For 2012, these costs were primarily due to Altria Group, Inc. s cost reduction program announced in 2011 (the  2011 Cost Reduction Program ). 
  For a breakdown of asset impairment and exit costs by segment, see   Note 15  . 
     PMCC Leveraged Lease Benefit:    During the second quarter of 2012, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a closing agreement (the  Closing Agreement ) with the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) that conclusively resolved the federal income tax treatment for all prior and future tax years of certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by PMCC.  As a result of the Closing Agreement, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a one-time net earnings benefit of $68 million during the second quarter of 2012 due primarily to lower than estimated interest on tax underpayments. See   Note 7   and   Note 14   for a further discussion of the Closing Agreement.  

18 

     Table of Contents  

        Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt:    During the fourth quarter of 2014, UST redeemed in full its   $300 million   (aggregate principal amount)   5.75%   senior notes due 2018.  
  In addition, during the fourth quarter of 2013 and the third quarter of 2012, Altria Group, Inc. completed debt tender offers to purchase for cash certain of its senior unsecured notes in aggregate principal amounts of   $2.1 billion   and   $2.0 billion  , respectively.  
  As a result of the UST debt redemption and the Altria Group, Inc. debt tender offers, pre-tax losses on early extinguishment of debt were recorded as follows: 

For further discussion, see   Note 9  .     Long-Term Debt   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 9   ). 
     SABMiller Special Items:    Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller for 2012 included net pre-tax income of $248 million, consisting of gains resulting from SABMiller s strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel, partially offset by costs for SABMiller s  business capability programme  and costs related to SABMiller s acquisition of Foster s Group Limited. 
     Tax Items:    Tax items for 2014 included the reversal of tax accruals no longer required.  Tax items for 2013 included the reversal of tax accruals no longer required and the recognition of previously unrecognized foreign tax credits primarily associated with SABMiller dividends.  Excluding the tax impact included in the PMCC leveraged lease benefit, tax items for 2012 included the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest due primarily to the closure in 2012 of the IRS audit of Altria Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries  2004 - 2006 tax years. For further discussion, see   Note 14  .  
  2014 Compared with 2013 
  The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , with the year ended   December 31, 2013  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, were essentially unchanged, due primarily to higher net revenues in all reportable segments, offset by lower gains on asset sales in the financial services business. 
  Excise taxes on products decreased $226 million (3.3%), due primarily to lower smokeable products shipment volume. 
  Cost of sales increased $579 million (8.0%), due primarily to higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013. 
  Marketing, administration and research costs increased $199 million (8.5%), due primarily to higher investment spending in the innovative tobacco products businesses, lower reductions to the allowance for losses in the financial services  

business and higher costs in the smokeable products segment.  
  Operating income decreased $464 million (5.7%), due primarily to lower operating results from the smokeable products segment (which reflected higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013), higher investment spending in the innovative tobacco products businesses and lower income from the financial services business, partially offset by higher operating results from the smokeless products segment. 
  Interest and other debt expense, net, decreased $241 million (23.0%) due primarily to lower interest costs on debt as a result of debt maturities in 2013 and 2014, and debt refinancing activities during 2013, as well as interest income recorded in 2014 as a result of the NPM Adjustment Items. 
  Net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $5,070 million increased $535 million (11.8%), due primarily to lower losses on early extinguishment of debt, lower interest and other debt expense, net, partially offset by lower operating income. Diluted and basic EPS attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $2.56, each increased by 13.3% due to higher net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. and fewer shares outstanding. 
  2013 Compared with 2012 
  The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended   December 31, 2013  , with the year ended   December 31, 2012  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, decreased $152 million (0.6%), due primarily to lower net revenues from the smokeable products segment, partially offset by higher net revenues from the smokeless products and wine segments, and higher gains on asset sales in the financial services business. 
  Excise taxes on products decreased $315 million (4.4%), due primarily to lower smokeable products shipment volume. 
  Cost of sales decreased $731 million (9.2%), due primarily to NPM Adjustment Items and lower smokeable products  shipment volume, partially offset by higher per unit settlement charges. 
  Marketing, administration and research costs increased $39 million (1.7%), due primarily to spending related to the innovative tobacco products businesses and a postretirement benefit plan curtailment gain in 2012 related to the 2011 Cost Reduction Program, partially offset by lower spending in the smokeable products segment as a result of cost reduction initiatives. 
  Operating income increased $831 million (11.5%), due primarily to higher operating results from the smokeable products segment (which includes NPM Adjustment Items) and higher operating results from the smokeless products segment, partially offset by changes to Mondel z International, Inc. ( Mondel z ) and PMI tax-related receivables/payables as discussed further in   Note 14  . 
  Interest and other debt expense, net, decreased $77 million (6.8%) due primarily to lower interest costs on debt as a result of debt refinancing activities related to the debt tender offer in 2012. 
  Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller decreased $233 million (19.0%), due primarily to  

19 

     Table of Contents  

     SABMiller special items (which included gains of $342 million resulting from SABMiller s strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel in 2012). 
  Altria Group, Inc. s effective income tax rate decreased 0.7 percentage points to 34.7%, due primarily to an increased recognition of foreign tax credits in 2013 primarily associated with SABMiller dividends, and the resolution of various Mondel z and PMI tax matters during 2013 and 2012, partially offset by the leveraged lease benefit recorded by PMCC during the second quarter of 2012. 
  Net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $4,535 million increased $355 million (8.5%), due primarily to higher operating income, lower interest and other debt expense, net, and a lower income tax rate, partially offset by lower earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller and higher losses on early extinguishment of debt.  Diluted and basic EPS attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $2.26, each increased by 9.7% due to higher net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. and fewer shares outstanding. 
      
    Operating Results by Business Segment   
  Tobacco Space   
  Business Environment 
  Summary 
  The United States tobacco industry faces a number of business and legal challenges that have adversely affected and may adversely affect the business and sales volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  These challenges, some of which are discussed in more detail below, in   Note 18  , Item 1A and Item 3, include:  
             
    pending and threatened litigation and bonding requirements;  
                
    the requirement to issue  corrective statements  in various media in connection with the federal government s lawsuit;  
                
    restrictions and requirements imposed by the FSPTCA, and restrictions and requirements that have been, and in the future will be, imposed by the FDA under this statute;   
                
    actual and proposed excise tax increases, as well as changes in tax structures and tax stamping requirements;  

bans and restrictions on tobacco use imposed by governmental entities and private establishments and employers;  
                
    other federal, state and local government actions, including:  
                
    increases in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products above the current federal minimum age of 18;  

restrictions on the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments, the sale of certain tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes;  
                
    additional restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products;  
                
    other actual and proposed tobacco product legislation and regulation; and  
                
    governmental investigations;  
                
    the diminishing prevalence of cigarette smoking and increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and others (including employers and retail establishments) to further restrict tobacco use;  
                
    changes in adult tobacco consumer purchase behavior, which is influenced by various factors such as economic conditions, excise taxes and price gap relationships, may result in adult tobacco consumers switching to discount products or other lower priced tobacco products;   
                
    competitive disadvantages related to cigarette price increases attributable to the settlement of certain litigation;  
                
    illicit trade in tobacco products; and  
                
    potential adverse changes in tobacco leaf price, availability and quality.  
     In addition to and in connection with the foregoing, evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences pose challenges for Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries.  Our tobacco subsidiaries believe that a significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories or use multiple forms of tobacco products and that approximately 50% of adult smokers say they are interested in trying innovative tobacco products.  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries further believe that nearly all adult smokers are aware of e-vapor products (such as electronic cigarettes) and approximately 60% have tried them.  Nu Mark estimates 2014 total consumer expenditures on e-vapor products of approximately $2 billion based on annualized sales information.  
  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries work to meet these evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences over time by developing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing products both within and outside the United States through innovation and adjacency growth strategies (including, where appropriate, arrangements with, or investments in, third parties).  For example, Nu Mark entered the e-vapor category in 2013 with the introduction of   MarkTen   e-vapor products into two lead markets.  Nu Mark completed the national expansion of   MarkTen   products in December 2014.  In addition, as further discussed in Note 3  ,   in April 2014, Nu Mark completed the acquisition of the e-vapor business of Green Smoke.  See the discussions regarding new product technologies, adjacency growth strategy and evolving  

20 

     Table of Contents  

     consumer preferences in Item 1A for certain risks associated with the foregoing discussion. 
  We have provided additional detail on the following topics below:  
     FSPTCA and FDA Regulation;  
     Excise Taxes;  
     International Treaty on Tobacco Control;  
     State Settlement Agreements;  
     Other Federal, State and Local Regulation and Activity;  
     Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products;  
             
    Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products; and  
        Timing of Sales. 
    
  FSPTCA and FDA Regulation   
     The Regulatory Framework:   The FSPTCA expressly establishes certain restrictions and prohibitions on our cigarette and smokeless tobacco businesses and authorizes or requires further FDA action.  Under the FSPTCA, the FDA has broad authority to (1) regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products; (2) require disclosures of related information; and (3) enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations.   
  Among other measures, the FSPTCA:  
             
    imposes restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products, including at retail;   
                
    bans descriptors such as  light,   mild  or  low  or similar descriptors when used as descriptors of modified risk unless expressly authorized by the FDA;  
                
    requires extensive product disclosures to the FDA and may require public disclosures;   
                
    prohibits any express or implied claims that a tobacco product is or may be less harmful than other tobacco products without FDA authorization;  
                
    imposes reporting obligations relating to contraband activity and grants the FDA authority to impose recordkeeping and other obligations to address illicit trade in tobacco products; 
                
    changes the language of the cigarette and smokeless tobacco product health warnings, enlarges their size and requires the development by the FDA of graphic warnings for cigarettes, and gives the FDA the authority to require new warnings;  
                
    authorizes the FDA to adopt product regulations and related actions, including imposing tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health (  e.g.  , related to the use of menthol in  

cigarettes, nicotine yields and other constituents or ingredients) and imposing manufacturing standards for tobacco products;  
             
    establishes pre-market review pathways for new and modified tobacco products, including: 
                
    authorizing the FDA to subject tobacco products that would be modified or first introduced into the market after March  22, 2011 to application and pre-market review and authorization requirements (the  New Product Application Process ) if the FDA does not find them, as a manufacturer may contend, to be  substantially equivalent  to products commercially marketed as of February 15, 2007, and possibly to deny any such new product application, thereby preventing the distribution and sale of any product affected by such denial;  
                
    authorizing the FDA to determine that certain existing tobacco products modified or introduced into the market for the first time between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011 are not  substantially equivalent  to products commercially marketed as of February 15, 2007, in which case the FDA could require the removal of such products or subject them to the New Product Application Process and, if any such applications are denied, prevent the continued distribution and sale of such products (see   FDA Regulatory Actions   below); and  
                
    equips the FDA with a variety of investigatory and enforcement tools, including the authority to inspect tobacco product manufacturing and other facilities. 
     In April 2014, the FDA issued proposed regulations for other tobacco products, which as proposed would include machine-made large cigars, e-vapor products (such as electronic cigarettes), pipe tobacco and chewable tobacco-derived nicotine products marketed and sold by some of our tobacco subsidiaries.  The proposed regulations would impose the FSPTCA regulatory framework, including the foregoing measures, on products manufactured, marketed and sold by Nu Mark and Middleton with potentially wide-ranging impact on their businesses.  As discussed below in   FDA Regulatory Actions - Proposed Deeming Regulations  , Nu Mark and Middleton submitted comments on the proposed regulations in August 2014. 
     Implementation Timing, Rulemaking and Guidance:    The implementation of the FSPTCA began in 2009 and will continue over time.  The provisions of the FSPTCA that require the FDA to take action through rulemaking generally involve consideration of public comment and, for some issues, scientific review. 
  From time to time, the FDA also issues guidance for public comment, which may be issued in draft or final form.  Such guidance, when finalized, is intended to represent the FDA s current thinking on a particular topic and may be predictive of the FDA s enforcement stance on that topic.  Such guidance, even  

21 

     Table of Contents  

     when finalized, is not intended to bind the FDA or the public or establish legally enforceable responsibilities. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries participate actively in processes established by the FDA to develop and implement the FSPTCA s regulatory framework, including submission of comments to various FDA proposals and participation in public hearings and engagement sessions.  
  The implementation of the FSPTCA and related regulations and guidance also may have an impact on enforcement efforts by states, territories and localities of the United States of their laws and regulations as well as of the State Settlement Agreements discussed below (see   State Settlement Agreements   below).  Such enforcement efforts may adversely affect our tobacco subsidiaries  ability to market and sell regulated tobacco products in those states, territories and localities. 
     Impact on Our Business; Compliance Costs and User Fees:   Regulations imposed and other regulatory actions taken by the FDA under the FSPTCA could have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries in a number of different ways. For example, actions by the FDA could:  
             
    impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products;  
                
    delay, discontinue or prevent the sale or distribution of existing, new or modified tobacco products;  
                
    limit adult tobacco consumer choices;  
                
    impose restrictions on communications with adult tobacco consumers;  
                
    create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies;  
                
    impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements;  
                
    impose additional restrictions at retail;  
                
    result in increased illicit trade in tobacco products; or 
                
    otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business.  
     The failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements, even inadvertently, and FDA enforcement actions could also have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  The FSPTCA imposes fees on tobacco product manufacturers and importers to pay for the cost of regulation and other matters.  The cost of the FDA user fee is allocated first among tobacco product categories subject to FDA regulation and then among manufacturers and importers within each respective category based on their relative market shares, all as prescribed by the statute and FDA regulations.  Payments for user fees are subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.  For a discussion of the impact of the FDA user fee payments on Altria Group, Inc., see   Financial Review -  

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations - Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   below.  In addition, compliance with the FSPTCA s regulatory requirements has resulted and will continue to result in additional costs for our tobacco businesses.  The amount of additional compliance and related costs has not been material in any given quarter or year to date but could become material, either individually or in the aggregate, and will depend on the nature of the requirements imposed by the FDA. 
     Investigation and Enforcement:   The FDA has a number of investigatory and enforcement tools available to it, including document requests and other required information submissions, facility inspections, examinations and investigations, injunction proceedings, monetary penalties, product withdrawals and recalls, and product seizures.  The use of any of these investigatory or enforcement tools by the FDA could result in significant costs to the tobacco businesses of Altria Group, Inc. or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.   
     TPSAC 
             
    The     Role of the TPSAC:   As required by the FSPTCA, the FDA has established a tobacco product scientific advisory committee (the  TPSAC ), which consists of voting and non-voting members, to provide advice, reports, information and recommendations to the FDA on scientific and health issues relating to tobacco products.   
                
    Challenge to TPSAC Membership:    In February 2011, Lorillard Tobacco Company ( Lorillard ) and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ( R.J. Reynolds ) filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the United States Department of Health and Human Services and individual defendants (sued in their official capacities) asserting that the composition of the TPSAC and the composition of the Constituents Subcommittee of the TPSAC violates several federal laws, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, because four of the voting members of the TPSAC have financial and other conflicts (including service as paid experts for plaintiffs in tobacco litigation).  In July 2014, the district court granted plaintiffs  summary judgment motion, in part, and denied defendants  summary judgment motion, ordering the FDA to reconstitute the TPSAC and barring defendants from relying on the TPSAC report on menthol, discussed below.  The FDA filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in September 2014. 
                
    TPSAC Action on Menthol:   As mandated by the FSPTCA, in March 2011, the TPSAC submitted to the FDA a report on the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health and related recommendations.  The TPSAC report stated that  [m]enthol cigarettes have an adverse impact on public health in the United States.   The TPSAC report recommended, among other things, that the  [r]emoval of  

22 

     Table of Contents  

     menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health in the United States.   The TPSAC report noted the potential that any ban on menthol cigarettes could lead to an increase in contraband cigarettes and other potential unintended consequences and suggested that the FDA consult with appropriate experts on this matter.  The TPSAC report also recommended that additional research could address gaps in understanding menthol cigarettes. 
  In March 2011, PM USA submitted a report to the FDA outlining its position that neither science nor other evidence demonstrates that regulatory actions or restrictions related to the use of menthol cigarettes are warranted.  The report noted PM USA s belief that significant restrictions on the use of menthol cigarettes would have unintended consequences detrimental to public health and society.  The FDA has stated that the TPSAC report is only a recommendation, and, in July 2013, the FDA released its preliminary scientific evaluation on menthol, which states  that menthol cigarettes pose a public health risk above that seen with non-menthol cigarettes.   At the same time, the FDA also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking requesting comments on the FDA s preliminary scientific evaluation and information that may inform potential regulatory actions regarding menthol in cigarettes or other tobacco products.  In November 2013, PM USA submitted comments to the FDA raising a number of concerns with the preliminary scientific evidence, including comments demonstrating that menthol cigarettes do not affect population harm differently than non-menthol cigarettes.  PM USA also reiterated that significant restrictions on the use of menthol in cigarettes would have unintended consequences detrimental to public health and society.  No future action can be taken by the FDA to regulate the manufacture, marketing or sale of menthol cigarettes (including a possible ban) until the completion of the rulemaking process.  As noted above, the FDA is subject to a July 2014 court order that bars it from relying on the TPSAC report, although the FDA is currently appealing that order.  At this time, it is unclear how the FDA plans to proceed while that appeal is pending. 
     Final Tobacco Marketing Rule:   As required by the FSPTCA, the FDA re-promulgated in March 2010 a wide range of advertising and promotion restrictions in substantially the same form as regulations that were previously adopted in 1996 (but never imposed on tobacco manufacturers due to a United States Supreme Court ruling) (the  Final Tobacco Marketing Rule ).  The Final Tobacco Marketing Rule:  
             
    bans the use of color and graphics in tobacco product labeling and advertising; 
                
    prohibits the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to underage persons;  
                
    restricts the use of non-tobacco trade and brand names on cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products;  
                
    requires the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in direct, face-to-face transactions;  

prohibits sampling of cigarettes and prohibits sampling of smokeless tobacco products except in qualified adult-only facilities;  
                
    prohibits gifts or other items in exchange for buying cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products;   
                
    prohibits the sale or distribution of items such as hats and tee shirts with tobacco brands or logos; and  
                
    prohibits brand name sponsorship of any athletic, musical, artistic or other social or cultural event, or any entry or team in any event.  
     Subject to the limitations described below, the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule took effect in June 2010.  At the time of the re-promulgation of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule, the FDA also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the so-called  1000 foot rule,  which would establish restrictions on the placement of outdoor tobacco advertising in relation to schools and playgrounds.  PM USA and USSTC submitted comments on this advance notice. 
  Since enactment, several lawsuits have been filed challenging various provisions of the FSPTCA and the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule, including their constitutionality and the scope of the FDA s authority thereunder.  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries are not parties to any of these lawsuits.  As a result of one such challenge (  Commonwealth Brands  ), the portion of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule that bans the use of color and graphics in labeling and advertising is unenforceable by the FDA.  For a further discussion of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule and the status of graphic warnings for cigarette packages and advertising, see   FDA Regulatory Actions - Graphic Warnings   below. 
  In a separate lawsuit that challenged the constitutionality of an FDA regulation that restricts tobacco manufacturers from using the trade or brand name of a non-tobacco product on cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products, the case was dismissed without prejudice pursuant to a stipulation by which the FDA agreed not to enforce the current or any amended trade name rule against plaintiffs until at least 180 days after rulemaking on the amended rule concludes.      This relief only applies to plaintiffs in the case.  However, in May 2010, the FDA issued guidance on the use of non-tobacco trade and brand names applicable to all cigarette and smokeless tobacco product manufacturers.  This guidance indicated the FDA s intention not to commence enforcement actions under the regulation while it considers how to address the concerns raised by various manufacturers.  In November 2011, the FDA proposed an amended rule, but has not yet issued a final rule. 
             
    FDA Regulatory Actions 
                
    Graphic Warnings:   In June 2011, as required by the FSPTCA, the FDA issued its final rule to modify the required warnings that appear on cigarette packages and in cigarette advertisements.  The FSPTCA requires the warnings to consist of nine new textual warning statements accompanied by color graphics depicting the negative health consequences  

23 

     Table of Contents  

     of smoking.  The graphic health warnings will (i) be located beneath the cellophane, and comprise the top 50% of the front and rear panels of cigarette packages and (ii) occupy 20% of a cigarette advertisement and be located at the top of the advertisement.  After a legal challenge to the rule initiated by R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and several other plaintiffs, in which plaintiffs prevailed both at the federal trial and appellate levels, the FDA decided not to seek further review of the U.S. Court of Appeals  decision and announced its plans to propose a new graphic warnings rule in the future.  
             
    Substantial Equivalence and Other New Product Processes/Pathways:    In January 2011, the FDA issued guidance concerning reports that manufacturers must submit for certain FDA-regulated tobacco products that the manufacturer modified or introduced for the first time into the market after February 15, 2007.  These reports must be reviewed by the FDA to determine if such tobacco products are  substantially equivalent  to products commercially available as of February 15, 2007.  In general, in order to continue marketing these products sold before March 22, 2011, manufacturers of FDA-regulated tobacco products were required to send to the FDA a report demonstrating substantial equivalence by March 22, 2011.  PM USA and USSTC submitted timely reports.  PM USA and USSTC can continue marketing these products unless the FDA makes a determination that a specific product is not substantially equivalent.  If the FDA ultimately makes such a determination, it could require the removal of such products or subject them to the New Product Application Process and, if any such applications are denied, prevent the continued distribution and sale of such products.  While PM USA and USSTC believe that all of their current products meet the statutory requirements of the FSPTCA, they cannot predict whether, when or how the FDA ultimately will apply its guidance to their various respective substantial equivalence reports or seek to enforce the law and regulations consistent with its guidance.   
     Manufacturers intending to introduce new products and certain modified products into the market after March 22, 2011 must submit a report to the FDA and obtain a  substantial equivalence order  from the FDA before introducing the products into the market.  If the FDA declines to issue a so-called  substantial equivalence order  for a product or if the manufacturer itself determines that the product does not meet the substantial equivalence requirements, the product would need to undergo the New Product Application Process.  
  The FDA began announcing its decisions on substantial equivalence reports in the second quarter of 2013.  However, there are a significant number of substantial equivalence reports for which the FDA has not announced decisions.  At this time, it is not possible to predict how long reviews by the FDA of substantial equivalence reports or new product applications will take. 

Good Manufacturing Practices:    The FSPTCA requires that the FDA promulgate good manufacturing practice regulations for tobacco product manufacturers, but does not specify a timeframe for such regulations.  In 2013, the FDA obtained input through a public docket on proposed Good Manufacturing Practice regulations recommended to the FDA by a group of tobacco companies, including PM USA and USSTC.   
                
    Proposed Deeming Regulations:    As noted above in   FSPTCA and FDA Regulation - The Regulatory Framework  , the FDA proposed     regulations in April 2014 that would impose the FSPTCA regulatory framework on machine-made large cigars, e-vapor products (such as electronic cigarettes), pipe tobacco and chewable tobacco-derived nicotine products.  Nu Mark and Middleton submitted comments on the proposed regulations in August 2014.  Nu Mark s submission covers a number of topics, including its perspective on (1) the guiding principles that the FDA should follow to help ensure successful implementation of the deeming regulation, (2) the potential for e-vapor products and other tobacco-derived nicotine products to reduce tobacco-related harm and (3) the establishment of product approval pathways that encourage innovation of potentially reduced harm products.  Middleton s comments covered its perspective on the overall regulation of cigars and on the use of the word  mild  in the   Black   Mild   brand name.  The proposed regulations suggested that the FDA may apply the descriptor prohibition to cigars and pipe tobacco, which could potentially prohibit the use of the word  Mild  in the   Black   Mild   brand name.  As reflected in the comments, Middleton believes neither the FDA s regulatory authority nor the First or Fifth Amendments to the United States Constitution allow the FDA to ban words such as  mild  regardless of the context and that the FDA can only prohibit the word  mild  when used as a descriptor of modified risk.  
     Excise Taxes 
  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States.  Significant increases in tobacco-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted (including with respect to e-vapor products) and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted at the federal, state and local levels within the United States.  
  Federal, state and local excise taxes have increased substantially over the past decade, far outpacing the rate of inflation.  By way of example, in 2009, the FET on cigarettes increased from $0.39 per pack to approximately $1.01 per pack, in 2010, the New York state excise tax increased by $1.60 to $4.35 per pack and in October 2014, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania enacted a $2.00 per pack local cigarette excise tax.  Between the end of 1998 and February 20, 2015, the weighted-average state and certain local cigarette excise taxes increased from $0.36 to $1.49 per pack.  During 2014, Vermont was the only state to enact a cigarette excise tax increase.  As of February 20, 2015, no state has increased its cigarette excise tax in 2015.  The President s  

24 

     Table of Contents  

     2015 Budget proposes significant increases in the FET for all tobacco products.  The proposed budget would increase the FET on a pack of cigarettes by $0.94 per pack, raising the total FET to $1.95 per pack, and would also increase the tax on other tobacco products by a proportionate amount. It is not possible to predict whether this proposed FET increase will be enacted. 
  Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of our tobacco subsidiaries through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.  Such shifts may have an adverse impact on the sales volume and reported share performance of tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  A majority of states currently tax smokeless tobacco products using an ad valorem method, which is calculated as a percentage of the price of the product, typically the wholesale price. This ad valorem method results in more tax being paid on premium products than is paid on lower-priced products of equal weight.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries support legislation to convert ad valorem taxes on smokeless tobacco to a weight-based methodology because, unlike the ad valorem tax, a weight-based tax subjects cans of equal weight to the same tax.  As of February 20, 2015, the federal government, 22 states, Puerto Rico, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Cook County, Illinois have adopted a weight-based tax methodology for smokeless tobacco.   
  International Treaty on Tobacco Control  
  The World Health Organization s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the  FCTC ) entered into force in February 2005.  As of February 20, 2015, 178 countries, as well as the European Community, have become parties to the FCTC.  While the United States is a signatory of the FCTC, it is not currently a party to the agreement, as the agreement has not been submitted to, or ratified by, the United States Senate.  The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation.  The treaty recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would, among other things:  establish specific actions to prevent youth tobacco product use; restrict or eliminate all tobacco product advertising, marketing, promotion and sponsorship; initiate public education campaigns to inform the public about the health consequences of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke and the benefits of quitting; implement regulations imposing product testing, disclosure and performance standards; impose health warning requirements on packaging; adopt measures intended to combat tobacco product smuggling and counterfeit tobacco products, including tracking and tracing of tobacco products through the distribution chain; and restrict smoking in public places.   
  There are a number of proposals currently under consideration by the governing body of the FCTC, some of which  

call for substantial restrictions on the manufacture, marketing, distribution and sale of tobacco products.  In addition, the Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products (the  Protocol ) was approved by the Conference of Parties to the FCTC in November 2012.  It includes provisions related to the tracking and tracing of tobacco products through the distribution chain and numerous other provisions regarding the regulation of the manufacture, distribution and sale of tobacco products.  The Protocol has not yet entered into force, but in any event will not apply to the United States until the Senate ratifies the FCTC and until the President signs, and the Senate ratifies, the Protocol.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact of any FCTC actions on legislation or regulation in the United States, either indirectly or as a result of the United States becoming a party to the FCTC, or whether or how these actions might indirectly influence FDA regulation and enforcement.  
  State Settlement Agreements 
  As discussed in   Note 18  , during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic tobacco product manufacturers entered into the State Settlement Agreements.  These settlements require participating manufacturers to make substantial annual payments, which are adjusted for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.  For a discussion of the impact of the State Settlement Agreements on Altria Group, Inc., see   Financial Review - Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations - Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   below and   Note 18  .   The State Settlement Agreements also place numerous requirements and restrictions on participating manufacturers  business operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products.  Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand advertising, payments for product placement and free sampling (except in adult-only facilities).  Restrictions are also placed on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products.  The State Settlement Agreements also place prohibitions on targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters.  In addition, the State Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities; mandate public disclosure of certain industry documents; limit the industry s ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations.  
  In November 1998, USSTC entered into the Smokeless Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (the  STMSA ) with the attorneys general of various states and United States territories to resolve the remaining health care cost reimbursement cases initiated against USSTC.  The STMSA required USSTC to adopt various marketing and advertising restrictions.  USSTC is the only smokeless tobacco manufacturer to sign the STMSA.  

25 

     Table of Contents  

     Other Federal, State and Local Regulation and Activity 
     Federal, State and Local Regulation:    A number of states and localities have enacted or proposed legislation that imposes restrictions on tobacco products (including innovative tobacco products, such as e-vapor products), such as legislation that (1) prohibits the sale of certain tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors, (2) requires the disclosure of health information separate from or in addition to federally-mandated health warnings and (3) restricts commercial speech or imposes additional restrictions on the marketing or sale of tobacco products (including proposals to ban all tobacco product sales or to increase the legal age to purchase tobacco products above the current federal minimum age requirement of 18).  The legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products, the conditions under which such products are or would be restricted or prohibited, and exceptions to the restrictions or prohibitions.  For example, a number of proposals involving characterizing flavors would prohibit smokeless tobacco products with characterizing flavors without providing an exception for mint- or wintergreen-flavored products.  
  Whether other states or localities will enact legislation in these areas, and the precise nature of such legislation if enacted, cannot be predicted.  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries have challenged and will continue to challenge certain state and local legislation, including through litigation.  For example, in January 2014, PM USA, Middleton and a USSTC subsidiary, along with other tobacco product manufacturers and three trade associations representing New York City retailers, filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York challenging the coupon/discount ban included in a recently-enacted New York City ordinance on the grounds that it violates the First Amendment and is preempted by federal and state law.  In June 2014, the district court upheld the ordinance.  
     Federal Tobacco Quota Buy-Out:    In October 2004, FETRA, which applied to PM USA, Middleton and USSTC, was signed into law.  FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders.  The cost of the 10-year buy-out, which expired after the third quarter of 2014, was approximately $9.5 billion and was paid by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product subject to FET.  The cost was allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of such tobacco product.  
  For a discussion of the impact of FETRA payments on Altria Group, Inc., see   Financial Review - Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations - Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   below  .    Neither the quota buy-out nor the expiration of the quota buy-out had a material impact on our consolidated financial results in 2014. 
     Health Effects of Tobacco Consumption and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ( ETS ):    It is the policy of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries to defer to the  

judgment of public health authorities as to the content of warnings in advertisements and on product packaging regarding the health effects of tobacco consumption, addiction and exposure to ETS.  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries believe that the public should be guided by the messages of the United States Surgeon General and public health authorities worldwide in making decisions concerning the use of tobacco products.  
  Reports with respect to the health effects of smoking have been publicized for many years, including in a January 2014 United States Surgeon General report titled  The Health Consequences of Smoking - 50 Years of Progress  and in a June 2006 United States Surgeon General report on ETS titled  The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke.    
  Most jurisdictions within the United States have restricted smoking in public places.  Some public health groups have called for, and various jurisdictions have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, in private apartments and in cars transporting minors.  It is not possible to predict the results of ongoing scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure and the impact of such research on regulation.  
     Other Legislation or Governmental Initiatives:   In addition to the actions discussed above, other regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered at the federal level and in a number of state and local jurisdictions.  For example, in recent years, legislation has been introduced or enacted at the state or local level to subject tobacco products to various reporting requirements and performance standards (such as reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards); establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco consumption or tobacco control programs, or provide additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; restrict the sale of tobacco products in certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes; require tax stamping of MST products; require the use of state tax stamps using data encryption technology; and further restrict the sale, marketing and advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products.  Such legislation may be subject to constitutional or other challenges on various grounds, which may or may not be successful. 
  It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented (and, if challenged, upheld) relating to the manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products, or the tobacco industry generally.  It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented that might materially adversely affect the business and volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations and cash flows.  
     Governmental Investigations:   From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.  Altria Group, Inc. and its  

26 

     Table of Contents  

     subsidiaries cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced.  
  Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products 
  Illicit trade in tobacco products can have an adverse impact on the businesses of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.  Illicit trade can take many forms, including the sale of counterfeit tobacco products; the sale of tobacco products in the United States that are intended for sale outside the country; the sale of tobacco products over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid the collection of applicable taxes; and diversion into one taxing jurisdiction of tobacco products intended for sale in another.  Counterfeit tobacco products, for example, are manufactured by unknown third parties in unregulated environments.  Counterfeit versions of PM USA, USSTC or Middleton products can negatively affect adult tobacco consumer experiences with and opinions of those brands.  Illicit trade in tobacco products also harms law-abiding wholesalers and retailers by depriving them of lawful sales and undermines the significant investment Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries have made in legitimate distribution channels.  Moreover, illicit trade in tobacco products results in federal, state and local governments losing tax revenues.  Losses in tax revenues can cause such governments to take various actions, including increasing excise taxes; imposing legislative or regulatory requirements that may adversely impact Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations and cash flows and the businesses of its tobacco subsidiaries; or asserting claims against manufacturers of tobacco products or members of the trade channels through which such tobacco products are distributed and sold. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries devote significant resources to help prevent illicit trade in tobacco products and to protect legitimate trade channels.  For example, Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries are engaged in a number of initiatives to help prevent illicit trade in tobacco products, including communication with wholesale and retail trade members regarding illicit trade in tobacco products and how they can help prevent such activities; enforcement of wholesale and retail trade programs and policies that address illicit trade in tobacco products; engagement with and support of law enforcement and regulatory agencies; litigation to protect their trademarks; and support for a variety of federal and state legislative initiatives.  Legislative initiatives to address illicit trade in tobacco products are designed to protect the legitimate channels of distribution, impose more stringent penalties for the violation of illegal trade laws and provide additional tools for law enforcement.  Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products continue to evolve as the nature of illicit tobacco products evolves.   

Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products 
  Shifts in crops (such as those driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns), government mandated prices and production control programs may increase or decrease the cost or reduce the supply or quality of tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products.  As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf can be influenced by economic conditions and imbalances in supply and demand and crop quality and availability can be influenced by variations in weather patterns, including those caused by climate change.  Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including government mandated prices and production control programs.  Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products and the cost of tobacco production could impact tobacco leaf prices and tobacco supply.  Any significant change in the price, quality or availability of tobacco leaf or other agricultural products used to manufacture our products could adversely affect our subsidiaries  profitability and businesses.  
  Timing of Sales 
  In the ordinary course of business, our tobacco subsidiaries are subject to many influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases. 
    Operating Results 
  The following table summarizes operating results for the smokeable and smokeless products segments:   

  Smokeable Products Segment 
  The smokeable products segment s operating companies income decreased during   2014   due primarily to higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013 and lower reported shipment volume, partially offset by higher pricing.  PM USA grew   Marlboro   s and its total cigarette category retail share versus 2013.   

27 

     Table of Contents  

     The following table summarizes the smokeable products segment shipment volume performance: 

Cigarettes shipment volume includes   Marlboro  ; Other premium brands, such as   Virginia Slims  ,   Parliament   and   Benson   Hedges  ; and Discount brands, which include   L M   and   Basic.    Cigarettes volume includes units sold as well as promotional units, but excludes units sold in Puerto Rico and U.S. Territories, to Overseas Military and by Philip Morris Duty Free Inc., none of which, individually or in the aggregate, is material to the smokeable products segment. 
  The following table summarizes the smokeable products segment retail share performance:   

  Retail share results for cigarettes are based on data from IRI/Management Science Associate Inc., a tracking service that uses a sample of stores and certain wholesale shipments to project market share and depict share trends.  Retail share results for cigars are based on data from IRI InfoScan, a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share and depict share trends.  Both services track sales in the Food, Drug and Mass Merchandisers (including Wal-Mart), Convenience, Military, Dollar Store and Club trade classes.  For other trade classes selling cigarettes, retail share is based on shipments from wholesalers to retailers through Store Tracking Analytical Reporting System ( STARS ).  These services are not designed to capture sales through other  

channels, including the internet, direct mail and some illicitly tax-advantaged outlets.  Retail share results for cigars are based on data for machine-made large cigars.  Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars made by machine that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars.  Because the cigars service represents retail share performance only in key trade channels, it should not be considered a precise measurement of actual retail share.  It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released in these services.     
  PM USA and Middleton executed the following pricing and promotional allowance actions during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  :  
     Effective November 16, 2014, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   L M   by $0.07 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.07 per pack. 
     Effective May 11, 2014, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   Marlboro   and   L M   by $0.06 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.06 per pack, except for   Parliament  , which PM USA increased by $0.11 per pack.    
     Effective December 1, 2013, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   Marlboro   and   L M   by $0.07 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.07 per pack.    
     Effective June 10, 2013, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   Marlboro   and   L M   by $0.06 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.06 per pack.    
     Effective December 3, 2012, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette brands by $0.06 per pack. 
     Effective June 18, 2012, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette brands by $0.06 per pack.   
     Effective March 14, 2012, Middleton reduced the list price on all of its untipped cigarillo brands by $0.39 per five-pack. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeable products segment for the year ended   December 31, 2014   with the year ended   December 31, 2013  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers,  increased $71 million (0.3%), due primarily to higher pricing, partially offset by lower shipment volume ($724 million). 
  Operating companies income decreased $190 million (2.7%), due primarily to higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013 ($621 million), lower shipment volume ($360 million) and higher marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by higher pricing.  
  Marketing, administration and research costs for the smokeable products segment include PM USA s cost of  

28 

     Table of Contents  

     administering and litigating product liability claims.  Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, including the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and tactics.  For further discussion on these matters, see   Note 18   and Item 3.  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , product liability defense costs for PM USA were $230 million, $247 million and $228 million, respectively.  The factors that have influenced past product liability defense costs are expected to continue to influence future costs.  PM USA does not expect future product liability defense costs to be significantly different from product liability defense costs incurred in the last few years. 
  For 2014, total smokeable products reported shipment volume decreased 2.9% versus 2013.  PM USA s 2014 reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased 3.0%, due primarily to the industry s decline, partially offset by retail share gains.  When adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors, PM USA estimates that its 2014 domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased approximately 3%, and that total industry cigarette volumes declined approximately 3.5%.   
  PM USA s shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 91.8% of its reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume for 2014, versus 92.1% for 2013. 
  Middleton s reported cigars shipment volume for 2014 increased 6.1%, driven by   Black   Mild   s performance in the tipped cigars segment, including   Black   Mild   Jazz. 
    Marlboro   s retail share for 2014 increased 0.1 share point versus 2013. 
  PM USA grew its total retail share for 2014 by 0.2 share points versus 2013, driven by   Marlboro  ,     and   L M   in Discount, partially offset by share losses on other portfolio brands.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, PM USA expanded distribution of   Marlboro   Menthol Rich Blue to 28 states, primarily in the eastern U.S., to enhance   Marlboro   s position in the menthol segment.  
  In the machine-made large cigars category,     Black   Mild   s retail share for 2014 declined 0.3 share points.  In December 2014, Middleton announced the national expansion of   Black   Mild   Casino, a dark tobacco blend, in the tipped segment.   
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeable products segment for the year ended December 31, 2013 with the year ended December 31, 2012. 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers,  decreased $348 million (1.6%), due primarily to lower shipment volume ($1,046 million), partially offset by higher pricing. 
  Operating companies income increased $824 million (13.2%), due primarily to higher pricing ($765 million), NPM Adjustment Items ($664 million) and lower marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by lower shipment volume ($512 million), and higher per unit settlement charges.  
  For 2013, total smokeable products reported shipment  

volume decreased 4.1% versus 2012.  PM USA s 2013 reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased 4.1%, due primarily to the industry s rate of decline, changes in trade inventories and other factors, partially offset by retail share gains.  When adjusted for trade inventories and other factors, PM USA estimated that its 2013 domestic cigarettes shipment volume was down approximately 4%, which was consistent with the estimated category decline.   
  PM USA s shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 92.1% of its reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume for 2013, versus 92.7% for 2012. 
  Middleton s reported cigars shipment volume for 2013 decreased 3.2% due primarily to changes in wholesale inventories and retail share losses. 
    Marlboro   s retail share for 2013 increased 0.1 share point versus 2012 behind investments in the   Marlboro   architecture.  PM USA expanded   Marlboro   Edge distribution nationally in the fourth quarter of 2013. 
  PM USA s 2013 retail share increased 0.3 share points versus 2012, due to retail share gains by   Marlboro  , as well as   L M   in Discount, partially offset by share losses on other portfolio brands.  In 2013,   L M   continued to gain retail share as the total discount segment was flat to declining versus 2012. 
  In the machine-made large cigars category,     Black   Mild   s retail share for 2013 decreased 1.0 share point, driven by heightened competitive activity from low-priced cigar brands. 
    
  Smokeless Products Segment 
  During 2014, the smokeless products segment grew operating companies income and expanded operating companies income margins.  USSTC also increased   Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined retail share versus 2013.  
  The following table summarizes smokeless products segment shipment volume performance:     

Smokeless products shipment volume includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume, which is not material to the smokeless products segment.  Other includes certain USSTC and PM USA smokeless products.  New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can-for-can basis.  To calculate volumes of cans and packs shipped, one pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is assumed to be equivalent to one can of MST.   

29 

     Table of Contents  

     The following table summarizes smokeless products segment retail share performance (excluding international volume):    

    Retail share results for smokeless products are based on data from IRI InfoScan, a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share and depict share trends.  The service tracks sales in the Food, Drug and Mass Merchandisers (including Wal-Mart), Convenience, Military, Dollar Store and Club trade classes on the number of cans and packs sold.  Smokeless products is defined by IRI as moist smokeless and spit-free tobacco products.  Other includes certain USSTC and PM USA smokeless products.  New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can-for-can basis. One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is assumed to be equivalent to one can of MST.  All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can-for-can basis.  Because this service represents retail share performance only in key trade channels, it should not be considered a precise measurement of actual retail share.  It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released in this service.   
  USSTC executed the following pricing actions during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  :  
     Effective November 25, 2014, USSTC increased the list price on all its brands by $0.07 per can. 
     Effective May 11, 2014, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.06 per can. 
     Effective December 8, 2013, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.06 per can.  
     Effective May 12, 2013, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.05 per can. 
     Effective December 9, 2012, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.05 per can. 
     Effective May 25, 2012, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.05 per can. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeless products segment for the year ended   December 31, 2014   with the year ended   December 31, 2013  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $31 million (1.7%), due primarily to higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments, and higher  

volume, partially offset by mix due to growth in popular priced products. 
  Operating companies income increased $38 million (3.7%), due primarily to higher pricing ($43 million), which includes higher promotional investments, and higher volume ($9 million), partially offset by product mix.  
  Reported domestic smokeless products shipment volume for 2014 increased 0.7% as volume growth for   Copenhagen   was     mostly offset by volume declines in   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands.    Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined reported shipment volume increased 1.2% for 2014. 
  After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors, USSTC estimates that domestic smokeless products shipment volume grew approximately 2.5% for 2014.  USSTC estimates that the smokeless products category volume grew approximately 2% for 2014 as compared to approximately 5.5% for 2013.  USSTC continues to believe that the smokeless category s growth rate is best determined over a longer time horizon and will continue to monitor industry volume closely. 
  Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined retail share increased 0.5 share points to 51.2% for 2014.    Copenhagen   s retail share     increased 1.5 share points, while   Skoal   s retail share declined 1.0 share point. 
  Retail share for the smokeless products segment increased 0.2 share points to 55.2%, as retail share gains for   Copenhagen   were mostly offset by share losses for   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands.  
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeless products segment for the year ended December 31, 2013 with the year ended December 31, 2012. 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $87 million (5.1%), due primarily to higher shipment volume and higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments, partially offset by mix due to growth in popular priced products. 
  Operating companies income increased $92 million (9.9%), due primarily to higher shipment volume ($39 million), higher pricing ($34 million), which includes higher promotional investments, lower restructuring charges ($25 million) and effective cost management, partially offset by mix.  
  Calendar differences affected reported domestic smokeless products shipment volume due to one less shipping day in 2013, representing approximately one full week of volume. Reported domestic smokeless products shipment volume for 2013 increased 3.2% versus 2012 due to volume growth for   Copenhagen  , partially offset by volume declines in   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands.    Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined reported shipment volume increased 4.3% versus 2012. 
  After adjusting for calendar differences, trade inventory changes and other factors, USSTC estimates that domestic smokeless products shipment volume grew 5% for 2013, while smokeless products category volume grew approximately 5.5%.  
  Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined retail share increased 0.3 share points to 50.7% for 2013.    Copenhagen   s retail share     grew 1.4 share points, as the brand continued to benefit from products introduced over the past several years.    Skoal   s 2013 retail share  

30 

     Table of Contents  

     declined 1.1 share points, due primarily to competitive activity and   Copenhagen   s     performance.  
  Retail share for the smokeless products segment decreased 0.2 share points versus 2012 as retail share losses for   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands were mostly offset by retail share gains for   Copenhagen  .  
      
    Wine Segment 
  Business Environment 
  Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily   Chateau Ste. Michelle  ,   Columbia Crest   and   14 Hands  , and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other wine regions and foreign countries.  Ste. Michelle holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns   Stag s Leap Wine Cellars   in Napa Valley.  Ste. Michelle also owns   Conn Creek   in Napa Valley and   Erath   in Oregon.  In addition, Ste. Michelle imports and markets   Antinori  ,   Torres   and   Villa Maria Estate   wines and   Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte   in the United States.  Key elements of Ste. Michelle s strategy are expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers, and a focus on improving product mix to higher-priced, premium products.  
  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers.  Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.  Substantially all of Ste. Michelle s sales occur through state-licensed distributors. 
  Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. 
    Operating Results  
  Ste. Michelle delivered higher net revenues and operating companies income in 2014 due primarily to higher shipment volume.   

The following table summarizes operating results for the wine segment: 

The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume performance: 

1    Two Vines   is no longer sold under the   Columbia Crest   brand.  Effective January 1, 2014, shipment volume for   Two Vines   is included in Other.  Prior-period shipment volume for   Columbia Crest   and Other have been adjusted to reflect this change. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the wine segment for the year ended   December 31, 2014   with the year ended   December 31, 2013  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, and operating companies income increased $34 million (5.6%) and $16 million (13.6%), respectively, due primarily to higher shipment volume. 
  For 2014, Ste. Michelle s reported wine shipment volume increased 4.8% driven by increased volume of   14 Hands   and   Chateau Ste. Michelle  , partially offset by declines in Other brands. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the wine segment for the year ended   December 31, 2013   with the year ended   December 31, 2012  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $48 million (8.6%), due to higher shipment volume, improved premium mix and higher pricing. 
  Operating companies income increased $14 million (13.5%), due to higher shipment volume, higher pricing and improved premium mix, partially offset by higher selling, general and administrative costs and higher manufacturing costs. 
  For 2013, Ste. Michelle s reported wine shipment volume increased 5.0% due primarily to increased distribution of   14 Hands. 

31 

       Table of Contents  

     Financial Review 
  Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 
  During   2014  , net cash provided by operating activities was   $4.7 billion   compared with   $4.4 billion   during   2013  .  This increase was due primarily to the following: 
             
    a voluntary $350 million contribution to Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans during 2013; 
       partially offset by: 
             
    higher income tax payments in 2014, resulting primarily from the loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2013; and 
                
    higher settlement payments during 2014, driven primarily by the impact of higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013.   
       
  During   2013  , net cash provided by operating activities was   $4.4 billion   compared with   $3.9 billion   during   2012  .  This increase was due primarily to the following:  
             
    lower settlement payments, which include the $483 million credit that PM USA received against its April 2013 MSA payment as a result of the NPM Adjustment Items;  
                
    lower income tax payments, which include the Closing Agreement with the IRS that resulted in a payment for federal income tax and estimated interest of $456 million in 2012; and 
      partially offset by: 
             
    timing of spending related to inventory purchases and other working capital requirements. 
       
  Altria Group, Inc. had a working capital deficit at December 31, 2014 and   2013  .  Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that it has the ability to fund these working capital deficits with cash provided by operating activities and/or short-term borrowings under its commercial paper program as discussed in the   Debt and Liquidity   section below. 
  Net Cash Provided by Investing Activities 
  During   2014  , net cash provided by investing activities was   $177 million   compared with   $602 million   during   2013  .  This decrease was due primarily to the following: 
             
    lower proceeds from asset sales in the financial services business during 2014; and 

Nu Mark s acquisition of Green Smoke during 2014. 
     During   2013  , net cash provided by investing activities was   $602 million   compared with   $920 million   during   2012  .  This decrease was due primarily to lower proceeds from asset sales in the financial services business in   2013  . 
  Capital expenditures for   2014   increased 24.4% to   $163 million  .  Capital expenditures for 2015 are expected to be in the range of $200 million to $250 million, and are expected to be funded from operating cash flows.  The increase in expected capital expenditures in 2015 compared with 2014 is due primarily to a new USSTC manufacturing facility.    
  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities 
  During   2014  , net cash used in financing activities was   $4.7 billion  , essentially unchanged compared to   2013  , which primarily reflected the following: 
             
    higher repayments of debt in 2013 driven primarily by the repurchase of senior unsecured notes in connection with the 2013 debt tender offer; and 
      offset by: 
             
    debt issuances of $3.2 billion in 2013 used to repurchase senior unsecured notes in connection with the 2013 debt tender offer; 
        higher share repurchases during 2014; and 
     higher dividends paid during 2014. 
  During   2013  , net cash used in financing activities was    $4.7 billion   compared with   $5.2 billion   during   2012  .  This decrease was due primarily to the following: 
     debt issuances of $1.0 billion in May 2013; and  
     lower share repurchases during 2013;  
  partially offset by: 
             
    higher repayments of debt at scheduled maturities in 2013; and 
        higher dividends paid during 2013. 
    
  Debt and Liquidity  
  Credit Ratings   - Altria Group, Inc. s cost and terms of financing and its access to commercial paper markets may be impacted by applicable credit ratings.  Under the terms of certain of Altria Group, Inc. s existing debt instruments, a change in a credit rating could result in an increase or a decrease of the cost of borrowings.  For instance, as discussed in   Note 9  , the interest rate payable on certain of Altria Group, Inc. s outstanding notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) or Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ) is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the  

32 

       Table of Contents  

     notes.  The impact of credit ratings on the cost of borrowings under Altria Group, Inc. s credit agreements is discussed below.  
  At   December 31, 2014  , the credit ratings and outlook for Altria Group, Inc. s indebtedness by major credit rating agencies were: 
                              
    Short-term 
  Debt 
      
    Long-term 
  Debt 
      
    Outlook 
      Moody s 
    P-2 
      
    Baa1 
      
    Stable 
      Standard   Poor s    1  
    A-2 
      
    BBB+ 
      
    Stable 
      Fitch Ratings Ltd. 
    F2 
      
    BBB+ 
      
    Stable 

1    On March 12, 2014, Standard   Poor s raised the long-term debt credit rating for Altria Group, Inc. to  BBB+  from  BBB . 
  Credit Lines   - From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. has short-term borrowing needs to meet its working capital requirements and generally uses its commercial paper program to meet those needs.  At   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , Altria Group, Inc. had   no   short-term borrowings.   
   Altria Group, Inc. s average daily short-term borrowings, peak short-term borrowings outstanding and weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings were as follows: 

Short-term borrowings were repaid with cash provided by operating activities.  Peak borrowings were due primarily to payments related to State Settlement Agreements as further discussed in   Tobacco Space - Business Environment, Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations - Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation,   and     Note 18  .   
  During the third quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. entered into an extension agreement (the  Extension Agreement ) to amend its   $3.0 billion   senior unsecured   5  -year revolving credit agreement, dated as of August 19, 2013 (the  Credit Agreement ).  The Extension Agreement extends the expiration date of the Credit Agreement from August 19, 2018 to   August 19, 2019   pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.  All other terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The Credit Agreement contains an additional option, subject to certain conditions, for Altria Group, Inc. to extend the expiration date for an additional   one  -year period. 
  The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of   $3.0 billion  .  Pricing for interest and fees under the Credit Agreement may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt.  Interest rates on borrowings under the  

Credit Agreement are expected to be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage based on the higher of the ratings of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s.  The applicable percentage based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at   December 31, 2014   for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was   1.25%  .  The Credit Agreement does not include any other rating triggers, nor does it contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.  At December 31, 2014, credit available to Altria Group, Inc. under the Credit Agreement was $3.0 billion.   
  The Credit Agreement is used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances.  The Credit Agreement requires that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) of not more than   3.0   to 1.0 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than   4.0   to 1.0, each calculated as of the end of the applicable quarter on a rolling four quarters basis.  At   December 31, 2014  , the ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement, were   1.8   to 1.0 and   9.7   to 1.0, respectively.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to meet its covenants associated with the Credit Agreement.  The terms  consolidated EBITDA,   debt  and  consolidated interest expense,  as defined in the Credit Agreement, include certain adjustments.  Exhibit 99.3 to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2013 sets forth the definitions of these terms as they appear in the Credit Agreement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Any commercial paper issued by Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 19   ). 
    Financial Market Environment   - Altria Group, Inc. believes it has adequate liquidity and access to financial resources to meet its anticipated obligations and ongoing business needs in the foreseeable future.  Altria Group, Inc. continues to monitor the credit quality of its bank group and is not aware of any potential non-performing credit provider in that group.  Altria Group, Inc. believes the lenders in its bank group will be willing and able to advance funds in accordance with their legal obligations.   
  Debt   - At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. s total debt was   $14.7 billion   and   $14.5 billion  , respectively. 
  As discussed in   Note 9  , on November 14, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. issued   $1.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of   2.625%   senior unsecured long-term notes due   2020  .  Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually.  The net proceeds from the issuance of these senior unsecured notes were added to Altria Group, Inc. s general funds and were used for general corporate purposes.  The obligations of Altria Group,  

33 

       Table of Contents  

     Inc. under the notes are guaranteed by PM USA.  For further discussion, see   Note 19  . 
  During the first quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. repaid in full at maturity senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of   $525 million  . 
  During the fourth quarter of 2014, UST redeemed in full its $300 million (aggregate principal amount) 5.75% senior notes due 2018. 
  All of Altria Group, Inc. s debt was fixed-rate debt at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  .  The weighted-average coupon  

interest rate on total debt was approximately 5.7% and  
  5.9% at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  For further details on long-term debt, see   Note 9  . 
  In October 2014, Altria Group, Inc. filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, under which Altria Group, Inc. may offer debt securities or warrants to purchase debt securities from time to time over a three-year period  
  from the date of filing. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations 
  Altria Group, Inc. has no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below. 
  Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   - As discussed in   Note 18  , Altria Group, Inc. had unused letters of credit obtained in the ordinary course of business, guarantees (including third-party guarantees) and a redeemable noncontrolling interest outstanding at   December 31, 2014  .  From time to time, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. also issue lines of credit to affiliated entities.  In addition, as discussed in   Note 19  , PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program.  These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity. 
  Aggregate Contractual Obligations   - The following table summarizes Altria Group, Inc. s contractual obligations at   December 31, 2014  : 

(1)    Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt. 
   (2)    Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s interest expense on its long-term debt. Interest on Altria Group, Inc. s debt, which was all fixed-rate debt at   December 31, 2014  , is presented using the stated coupon interest rate.  Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts and premiums, the amortization of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest and other debt expense, net on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
   (3)    Amounts represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases. 
   (4)    Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, storage and distribution) are commitments for projected needs to be used in the normal course of business.  Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, capital expenditures, information technology and professional services.  Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction.  Most arrangements are cancelable without a significant penalty, and with short notice (usually 30 days).  Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are excluded from the table above. 
   (5)    Other long-term liabilities consist of accrued postretirement health care costs and certain accrued pension costs.  The amounts included in the table above for accrued pension costs consist of the actuarially determined anticipated minimum funding requirements for each year from 2015 through 2019.  Contributions beyond 2019 cannot be reasonably estimated and, therefore, are not included in the table above.  In addition, the following long-term liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the table above: accrued postemployment costs, income taxes and tax contingencies, and other accruals.  Altria Group, Inc. is unable to estimate the timing of payments for these items. 

34 

       Table of Contents  

     The State Settlement Agreements and related legal fee payments, and payments for FDA user fees, as discussed below and in   Note 18   and Item 3, are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.  Litigation escrow deposits, as discussed below and in   Note 18  , are also excluded from the table above since these deposits will be returned to PM USA should it prevail on appeal.   
  Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   - As discussed previously and in   Note 18   and Item 3, PM USA has entered into State Settlement Agreements with the states and territories of the United States that call for certain payments.  PM USA, Middleton and USSTC were also subject to payment obligations imposed by FETRA.  The FETRA payment obligations expired after the third quarter of 2014.  In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA.  Payments under the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and the FDA user fees are based on variable factors, such as volume, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales.  As a result of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded approximately $4.9 billion, $4.4 billion and $5.1 billion of charges to cost of sales for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  The 2014 and 2013 amounts included reductions to cost of sales of $43 million and $664 million, respectively, for the NPM Adjustment Items.  In addition, the 2014 amount included a decrease in the charge to cost of sales of approximately $100 million, reflecting the expiration of the obligations imposed by FETRA after the third quarter of 2014. 
  In connection with the settlement of the NPM Adjustment disputes under the MSA for the years 2003-2012, the formula for allocating the revised NPM Adjustments applicable to the signatory states for 2013 and subsequent years among the tobacco product manufacturers that are original signatories to the MSA ( OPMs ) has been modified in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments.  For a detailed discussion of settlements of, and determinations made in connection with disputes with certain states and territories related to the NPM Adjustment provision under the MSA for the years 2003-2012, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in Note 18. 
  Based on current agreements, 2014 market share and historical annual industry volume decline rates, the estimated amounts that Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries may charge to cost of sales for payments related to State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees approximate $4.6 billion in 2015 and each year thereafter.  The decrease in these amounts compared with approximately $4.9 billion charged to cost of sales in 2014 reflects the expiration of obligations imposed  

by FETRA after the third quarter of 2014.  These amounts exclude the potential impact of the revised and streamlined NPM Adjustment provision applicable to signatory states for years after 2014 discussed above.   
  The estimated amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements charged to cost of sales in each year would generally be paid in the following year.  The amounts charged to cost of sales for FDA user fees are generally paid in the quarter in which the fees are incurred.  As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of the State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees are subject to adjustment for several factors, including volume, inflation and certain contingent events and, in general, are allocated based on each manufacturer s market share.  The future payment amounts discussed above are estimates, and actual payment amounts will differ to the extent underlying assumptions differ from actual future results. 
  Litigation Escrow Deposits   - With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals, as of   December 31, 2014  , PM USA had posted various forms of security totaling approximately $61 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits.  These cash deposits are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 
  Although litigation is subject to uncertainty and an adverse outcome or settlement of litigation could have a  material adverse effect on the financial position, cash flows or results of operations of PM USA, UST or Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as more fully disclosed in   Note 18  , Item 3 and Item 1A, management expects cash flow from operations, together with Altria Group, Inc. s access to capital markets, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet ongoing business needs. 
  Equity and Dividends 
  As discussed in   Note 11  .   Stock Plans   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8, during   2014   Altria Group, Inc. granted an aggregate of   1.4 million   shares of restricted and deferred stock to eligible employees. 
  At   December 31, 2014  , the number of shares to be issued upon vesting of deferred stock was not significant.  In addition, there were no stock options outstanding at   December 31, 2014  . 
  Dividends paid in   2014   and   2013   were approximately   $3.9 billion   and $3.6 billion, respectively, an increase of   7.8%  , reflecting a higher dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding as a result of shares repurchased by Altria Group, Inc. under its share repurchase programs discussed below.   
  During the third quarter of 2014, the Board of Directors approved an   8.3%   increase in the quarterly dividend rate to   $0.52   per common share versus the previous rate of   $0.48   per common share.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to maintain a dividend payout ratio target of approximately 80% of its adjusted diluted EPS.  The current annualized dividend rate is   $2.08   per Altria Group, Inc. common share.  Future  

35 

       Table of Contents  

     dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
  During 2014, 2013 and 2012 the Board of Directors authorized Altria Group, Inc. to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock under several share repurchase programs.       
  Altria Group, Inc. s total share repurchase activity was as follows: 

At December 31, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. had approximately   $518 million   remaining in the July 2014 share repurchase program, which it expects to complete by the end of 2015.  The timing of share repurchases under the July 2014 share repurchase program depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors, and the program remains subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
  For further discussion of Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase programs, see   Note 1  .   Background and Basis of Presentation   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 
    
  Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted 
    
  See Note 2     for a discussion of recent accounting guidance issued but not yet adopted. 
  Contingencies 
  See   Note 18   and Item 3 for a discussion of contingencies. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  . 
  At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt was   $17.0 billion   and   $16.1 billion  , respectively.  The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s debt is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in market interest rates.  A 1% increase in market interest rates at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   would decrease the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively.  A 1% decrease in market interest rates at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   would increase the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.5 billion and $1.4 billion, respectively. 
  Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement are expected to be based on LIBOR plus a percentage based on the higher of the ratings of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s.  The applicable percentage based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at   December 31, 2014   for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was 1.25%.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had   no   borrowings under the Credit Agreement. 

36 

       Table of Contents  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
    
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ________________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

37 

     Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars, except share and per share data) 
  ____________________________________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

38 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data) 
  ____________________________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

39 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _______________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

40 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  __________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

41 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  __________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements.  

42 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity 
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data) 
  ____________________________________ 

(1)    Net earnings/losses attributable to noncontrolling interests for each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   exclude net earnings of   $3 million   due to the redeemable noncontrolling interest related to Stag s Leap Wine Cellars, which is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheets at  
  December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .  See   Note 18  . 
    
  See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

43 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Note 1  .      Background and Basis of Presentation 
       Background:   At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s  wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged predominantly in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST LLC ( UST ), which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Altria Group, Inc. s other operating companies included Nu Mark LLC ( Nu Mark ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products, and Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases.  Other Altria Group, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to certain Altria Group, Inc. operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services Inc., which provides various support services, such as legal, regulatory, finance, human resources and external affairs, to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests. 
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. also held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ), which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.  Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.   

Dividends and Share Repurchases:      During the third quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. s Board of Directors (the  Board of Directors ) approved an   8.3%   increase in the quarterly dividend rate to   $0.52   per common share versus the previous rate of   $0.48   per common share.  The current annualized dividend rate is   $2.08   per Altria Group, Inc. common share.  Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
     In October 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a   $1.0 billion   share repurchase program and expanded it to   $1.5 billion   in October 2012 (as expanded, the  October 2011 share repurchase program ).  During the first quarter of 2013, Altria Group, Inc. completed the October 2011 share repurchase program, under which Altria Group, Inc.  

repurchased a total of   48.3 million   shares of its common stock at an average price of   $31.06   per share.  
   In April 2013, the Board of Directors authorized a   $300 million   share repurchase program and expanded it to   $1.0 billion   in   August 2013   (as expanded, the  April 2013 share repurchase program ).  During the third quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. completed the April 2013 share repurchase program, under which Altria Group, Inc. repurchased a total of   27.1 million   shares of its common stock at an average price of   $36.97   per share. 
  In July 2014, the Board of Directors authorized a    $1.0 billion   share repurchase program (the  July 2014 share repurchase program ).  During 2014, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased   10.4 million   shares of its common stock (at an aggregate cost of approximately   $482 million  , and at an average price of   $46.41   per share) under the July 2014 share repurchase program.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had approximately   $518 million   remaining in the July 2014 share repurchase program. The timing of share repurchases under this program depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors, and the program remains subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , Altria Group, Inc. s total share repurchase activity was as follows: 

Basis of Presentation:   The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. exercises significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  Significant estimates and assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit plan assumptions, lives and valuation assumptions for goodwill and other intangible assets, marketing programs, income taxes, and the allowance for losses and estimated residual values of finance leases.  Actual results could differ from those estimates. 

44 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Note 2  .  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
     Cash and Cash Equivalents:   Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.  Cash equivalents are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. 
     Depreciation, Amortization, Impairment Testing and Asset Valuation:   Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical costs and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to   25   years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to   50   years.  Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives up to   25   years. 
  Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.  Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists.  For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable.  If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value.  Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.  Altria Group, Inc. also reviews the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed. 
  Altria Group, Inc. conducts a required annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would require Altria Group, Inc. to perform an interim review.  If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, goodwill is considered impaired.  The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and implied fair value.  If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value.   
     Employee Benefit Plans:   Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pensions, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits (primarily severance).  Altria Group, Inc. records annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP, which include various actuarial assumptions as to discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, mortality, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. 
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and records as a component of other comprehensive  

earnings (losses), net of deferred income taxes, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. 
     Environmental Costs:   Altria Group, Inc. is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. 
  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation and compliance costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows (see   Note 18  .   Contingencies   -   Environmental Regulation  ). 
     Fair Value Measurements:   Altria Group, Inc. measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value.  Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  Altria Group, Inc. uses a fair value hierarchy, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).  The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are: 
           Level 1 
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
              Level 2 
    Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
              Level 3 
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
        Finance Leases:   Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances.  Investments in leveraged leases are stated net of related nonrecourse debt obligations. 
  Finance leases include unguaranteed residual values that represent PMCC s estimates at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms.  The estimated residual values are reviewed annually by PMCC s management.  This review includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry.  If necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values.  
  PMCC considers rents receivable past due when they are  

45 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     beyond the grace period of their contractual due date.  PMCC stops recording income ( non-accrual status ) on rents receivable when contractual payments become   90   days past due or earlier if management believes there is significant uncertainty of collectability of rent payments, and resumes recording income when collectability of rent payments is reasonably certain.  Payments received on rents receivable that are on non-accrual status are used to reduce the rents receivable balance.  Write-offs to the allowance for losses are recorded when amounts are deemed to be uncollectible. 
     Guarantees:   Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities.  See   Note 18  . Contingencies   for a further discussion of guarantees. 
     Income Taxes:   Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. 
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  Altria Group, Inc. records a valuation allowance when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a benefit for uncertain tax positions when a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities.  The amount recognized is measured as   the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.    Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes on its consolidated statements of earnings. 
     Inventories:   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  The last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method is used to determine the cost of substantially all tobacco inventories.  The cost of the remaining inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out and average cost methods.  It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco and wine inventories as current assets although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the curing and aging process, ordinarily would not be used within one year. 
     Litigation Contingencies and Costs:   Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when it is determined that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can  

be reasonably estimated.  Litigation defense costs are expensed as incurred and included in marketing, administration and research costs on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
     Marketing Costs:   Altria Group, Inc. s businesses promote their products with consumer engagement programs, consumer incentives and trade promotions.  Such programs include, but are not limited to, discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives, event marketing and volume-based incentives.  Consumer engagement programs are expensed as incurred.  Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues, a portion of which is based on amounts estimated as being due to customers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical utilization and redemption rates.  For interim reporting purposes, consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year. 
     Revenue Recognition:   Altria Group, Inc. s businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers.  Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized.  Altria Group, Inc. s businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in net revenues.  Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales. 
     Stock-Based Compensation:   Altria Group, Inc. measures compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognizes compensation expense over the service periods for awards expected to vest.  The fair value of restricted stock and deferred stock is determined based on the number of shares granted and the market value at date of grant. 
     New Accounting Standards:     In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued authoritative guidance for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers.  The objective of this guidance is to establish principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity s contracts with customers.  For Altria Group, Inc., the new guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period.  Early application is not permitted.  Altria Group, Inc. is in the process of evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 

46 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Note 3  .  Acquisition of Green Smoke 
  In April 2014, Nu Mark acquired the e-vapor business of Green Smoke, Inc. and its affiliates ( Green Smoke ) for a total purchase price of up to approximately   $130 million  , which includes contingent consideration.  The acquisition complements Nu Mark s capabilities and enhances its competitive position by adding e-vapor experience, broadening product offerings and strengthening supply chain capabilities.   
  Green Smoke s financial position and results of operations have been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. as of April 1, 2014. 
  Pro forma results, as well as net revenues and net earnings for Green Smoke subsequent to the acquisition, have not been presented because the acquisition of Green Smoke is not material to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations. 
  The following amounts represent the fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the Green Smoke acquisition, which will be finalized during the first quarter of 2015:  

(in millions) 
      
      Cash and cash equivalents 
    $ 
    3 
      
      Inventory and other current assets 
    12 
      
      Indefinite-lived intangible asset - trademark 
    10 
      
      Definite-lived intangible assets 
    1 
      
      Current liabilities 
    (8 
    ) 
      Other assets and liabilities, net 
    1 
      
      Total identifiable net assets 
    19 
      
      Total purchase price 
    130 
      
      Goodwill 
    $ 
    111 

Costs incurred to effect the acquisition, as well as integration costs, are being recognized as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred.  For the year ended December 31, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. incurred   $28 million   of pre-tax integration and acquisition-related costs, consisting primarily of contract termination costs, transaction costs and inventory adjustments, which were included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings.  

Note 4  .  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net 
  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows:   

  Goodwill relates to Altria Group, Inc. s 2014 acquisition of Green Smoke, 2009 acquisition of UST and 2007 acquisition of Middleton. 
  Other intangible assets consisted of the following:  

Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist substantially of trademarks from Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 acquisition of UST (  $9.1 billion  ) and 2007 acquisition of Middleton (  $2.6 billion  ).  Definite-lived intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and certain cigarette trademarks, are amortized over periods up to   25   years.  Pre-tax amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets during each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , was   $20 million  .  Annual amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be approximately   $20 million  , assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets. 
  During   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , Altria Group, Inc. completed its quantitative annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite- 

lived intangible assets, and   no   impairment charges resulted.  
  For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, there have been   no   changes in goodwill and the gross carrying amount of other intangible assets except for the 2014 acquisition of Green Smoke.  In addition, there were   no   accumulated impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, net at December 31, 2014 and 2013. 
    Note 5  .  Inventories  
  The cost of approximately   66%   and   67%   of inventories at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, was determined using the LIFO method.  The stated LIFO amounts of inventories were approximately   $0.7 billion   lower than the current cost of inventories at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . 

47 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Note 6  .  Investment in SABMiller   
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller.  Altria Group, Inc. accounts for its investment in SABMiller under the equity method of accounting. 
  Pre-tax earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller were   $1,006 million  ,   $991 million   and   $1,224 million   for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.  Altria Group, Inc. s pre-tax earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller for the year ended December 31, 2012 included its share of pre-tax non-cash gains of   $342 million   resulting from SABMiller s strategic alliance transactions with Anadolu Efes and Castel. 
  Summary financial data of SABMiller is as follows: 

The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and is classified in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.  The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , was   $22.5 billion   and   $22.1 billion  , respectively, as compared with its carrying value of   $6.2 billion   and   $6.5 billion  , respectively.   
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s earnings reinvested in the business on its consolidated balance sheet included approximately   $3.0 billion   of undistributed earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller. 
    Note 7  .  Finance Assets, net 
  In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize its operating results and cash flows from its existing lease portfolio activities and asset sales.  Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold.   
       At   December 31, 2014  , finance assets, net, of   $1,614 million   were comprised of investments in finance leases of $  1,656 million  , reduced by the allowance for losses of   $42 million  .  At   December 31, 2013  , finance assets, net, of   $1,997 million   were comprised of investments in finance leases of   $2,049 million  , reduced by the allowance for losses of   $52 million  . 
  During the second quarter of 2012, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a closing agreement (the  Closing Agreement )  

with the Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) that conclusively resolved the federal income tax treatment for all prior and future tax years of certain leveraged lease transactions entered into by PMCC.  As a result of the Closing Agreement, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a one-time net earnings benefit of   $68 million   during the second quarter of 2012, due primarily to lower than estimated interest on tax underpayments, which was recorded as follows: 

See   Note 14  .   Income Taxes   for a further discussion of the Closing Agreement. 
  A summary of the net investments in finance leases, substantially all of which are leveraged leases, at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , before allowance for losses is as follows:   

  Rents receivable, net, represent unpaid rents, net of principal and interest payments on third-party nonrecourse debt.  PMCC s rights to rents receivable are subordinate to the third-party nonrecourse debtholders and the leased equipment is pledged as collateral to the debtholders.  The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC.  As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt of   $2.1 billion   and   $2.8 billion   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, has been offset against the related rents receivable.  There were   no   leases with contingent rentals in   2014   and   2013  . 
   In 2014 and 2012, PMCC s annual review of estimated residual values resulted in a decrease of   $63 million   and   $19 million  , respectively, to unguaranteed residual values.  These decreases in unguaranteed residual values resulted in a reduction to PMCC s net revenues of   $26 million   and   $8 million   in 2014 and 2012, respectively.  There were   no   such adjustments in 2013. 
  At   December 31, 2014  , PMCC s investments in finance leases were principally comprised of the following investment categories: aircraft (  39%  ), rail and surface transport (  25%  ), electric power (  21%  ), real estate (  10%  ) and manufacturing (  5%  ).  There were   no   investments located outside the United States at  

48 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     December 31, 2014   and   2013  .   
  Rents receivable in excess of debt service requirements on third-party nonrecourse debt at   December 31, 2014   were as follows: 

Included in net revenues for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   were leveraged lease revenues of   $80 million  ,   $209 million   and   $149 million  , respectively.  Income tax expense (benefit), excluding interest on tax underpayments, on leveraged lease revenues for the years     ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   $30 million  ,   $80 million   and   $54 million  , respectively. 
  Income from investment tax credits on leveraged leases was not significant during   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
  PMCC maintains an allowance for losses that provides for estimated credit losses on its investments in finance leases.  PMCC s portfolio consists substantially of leveraged leases to a diverse base of lessees participating in a wide variety of industries.  Losses on such leases are recorded when probable and estimable.  PMCC regularly performs a systematic assessment of each individual lease in its portfolio to determine potential credit or collection issues that might indicate impairment.  Impairment takes into consideration both the probability of default and the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur.  PMCC considers both quantitative and qualitative factors of each investment when performing its assessment of the allowance for losses. 
  Quantitative factors that indicate potential default are tied most directly to public debt ratings.  PMCC monitors publicly available information on its obligors, including financial statements and credit rating agency reports.  Qualitative factors that indicate the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur include, but are not limited to, underlying collateral value, other forms of credit support, and legal/structural considerations impacting each lease.  Using available information, PMCC calculates potential losses for each lease in its portfolio based on its default and recovery rating assumptions for each lease.  The aggregate of these potential losses forms a range of potential losses which is used as a guideline to determine the adequacy of PMCC s allowance for losses. 
  PMCC assesses the adequacy of its allowance for losses relative to the credit risk of its leasing portfolio on an ongoing basis.  During   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , PMCC determined that its allowance for losses exceeded the amount required based on management s assessment of the credit quality and size of PMCC s leasing portfolio.  As a result, PMCC reduced its  

allowance for losses by   $10 million  ,   $47 million   and   $10 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  These decreases to the allowance for losses were recorded as a reduction to marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.  PMCC believes that, as of   December 31, 2014  , the allowance for losses of   $42 million   was adequate.  PMCC continues to monitor economic and credit conditions, and the individual situations of its lessees and their respective industries, and may increase or decrease its allowance for losses if such conditions change in the future.   
  The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was as follows: 

As a result of developments related to the American Airlines, Inc. ( American ) bankruptcy filing in 2011, PMCC wrote off   $118 million   of the related investment in finance lease balance against its allowance for losses during 2012.  Also during 2012, PMCC recorded   $34 million   of pre-tax income primarily related to recoveries from the sale of bankruptcy claims on, as well as the sale of aircraft under, its leases to American. During the first quarter of 2013, PMCC sold its remaining interest in the American aircraft leases. 
     All   PMCC lessees were current on their lease payment obligations as of   December 31, 2014  . 
  The credit quality of PMCC s investments in finance leases as assigned by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ) and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) at   December 31, 2014   and   2013   was as follows: 

Note 8  .  Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements 
  At   December 31, 2014   and   December 31, 2013  , Altria Group, Inc. had   no   short-term borrowings.  The credit line available to Altria Group, Inc. at   December 31, 2014   under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) was   $3.0 billion  . 
  During the third quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. entered into an extension agreement (the  Extension Agreement ) to amend its   $3.0 billion   senior unsecured   5  -year revolving credit agreement, dated as of August 19, 2013 (the  Credit Agreement ).  The Extension Agreement extends the expiration date of the Credit Agreement from August 19, 2018 to   August 19, 2019    

49 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.  All other terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The Credit Agreement contains an additional option, subject to certain conditions, for Altria Group, Inc. to extend the expiration date for an additional   one  -year period. 
  The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of   $3.0 billion  .  Pricing for interest and fees under the Credit Agreement may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt.  Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement are expected to be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage based on the higher of the ratings of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Standard   Poor s and Moody s.  The applicable percentage based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at   December 31, 2014   for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was   1.25%  .  The Credit Agreement does not include any other rating triggers, nor does it contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.   
  The Credit Agreement is used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances.  The Credit Agreement requires that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) of not more than   3.0   to 1.0 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than   4.0   to 1.0, each calculated as of the end of the applicable quarter on a rolling four quarters basis.  At   December 31, 2014  , the ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement, were   1.8   to 1.0 and   9.7   to 1.0, respectively.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to meet its covenants associated with the Credit Agreement.  The terms  consolidated EBITDA,   debt  and  consolidated interest expense,  as defined in the Credit Agreement, include certain adjustments.   
  Any commercial paper issued by Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information. 
    Note 9  .  Long-Term Debt 
  At   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt consisted of the following: 

(1)     Weighted-average coupon interest rate of   5.7%   and   5.9%   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. 

Aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows: 

Altria Group, Inc. s estimate of the fair value of its debt is based on observable market information derived from a third party pricing source and is classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  The aggregate fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total long-term debt at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , was   $17.0 billion   and   $16.1 billion  , respectively, as compared with its carrying value of   $14.7 billion   and   $14.5 billion  , respectively.  
     Altria Group, Inc. Senior Notes:    On November 14, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. issued   $1.0 billion   aggregate principal amount of   2.625%   senior unsecured long-term notes due   2020  .  Interest on these notes is payable semi-annually.  The net proceeds from the issuance of these senior unsecured notes were added to Altria Group, Inc. s general funds and were used for general corporate purposes. 
  The notes of Altria Group, Inc. are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Altria Group, Inc. s existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.  Upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of Altria Group, Inc. and (ii) the notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody s, Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings Ltd. within a specified time period, Altria Group, Inc. will be required to make an offer to purchase the notes at a price equal to   101%   of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes. 
  With respect to   $4.2 billion   aggregate principal amount of Altria Group, Inc. s senior unsecured long-term notes issued in 2009 and 2008, the interest rate payable on each series of notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by Moody s or Standard   Poor s is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes. 
  During the first quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. repaid in full at maturity senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of   $525 million  . 
  The obligations of Altria Group, Inc. under the notes are guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  . 
     Debt Redemption and Tender Offers:   During the fourth quarter of 2014, UST redeemed in full its   $300 million   (aggregate principal amount)   5.75%   senior notes due 2018.   

50 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     During the fourth quarter of 2013 and the third quarter of 2012, Altria Group, Inc. completed debt tender offers to purchase for cash certain of its senior unsecured notes in aggregate principal amounts of   $2.1 billion   and   $2.0 billion  , respectively.  Details of these debt tender offers were as follows:  

As a result of the UST debt redemption and the Altria Group, Inc. debt tender offers, pre-tax losses on early extinguishment of debt were recorded as follows:   

    Note 10  .  Capital Stock 
  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had   12 billion   shares of authorized common stock; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares of common stock were as follows: 

At   December 31, 2014  ,   45,070,039   shares of common stock were reserved for stock-based awards under Altria Group, Inc. s stock plans, and   10 million   shares of serial preferred stock, $  1.00   par value, were authorized.    No   shares of serial preferred stock have been issued. 
    Note 11  .  Stock Plans 
  Under the Altria Group, Inc. 2010 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2010 Plan ), Altria Group, Inc. may grant to eligible employees stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted and deferred stock units, and other stock-based awards, as well as cash-based annual and long-term incentive awards.  Up to   50 million   shares of common stock may be issued under the 2010 Plan.  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. may grant up to   one million   shares of common stock to members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of Altria Group, Inc. under the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Directors Plan ).  Shares available to be granted under the 2010 Plan and the Directors Plan at   December 31, 2014  , were   44,518,983   and   477,785  , respectively. 
     Restricted and Deferred Stock:    Altria Group, Inc. may grant shares of restricted stock and deferred stock to eligible employees.  During the vesting period, these shares include nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents and may not be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered.  Such shares are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met.      Shares of     restricted stock and deferred stock generally vest three years after the grant date. 
  The fair value of the shares of restricted stock and deferred stock at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period, which is generally   three years  .  Altria Group, Inc. recorded pre-tax compensation expense related to restricted stock and deferred stock granted to employees for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   of   $46 million  ,   $49 million   and   $46 million  , respectively.  The deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was   $18 million  ,   $19 million   and   $18 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively.  The unamortized compensation expense related to Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock was   $58 million   at   December 31, 2014   and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately   two years  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. s restricted stock and deferred stock activity was as follows for the year ended   December 31, 2014  : 

51 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

            The weighted-average grant date fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock granted during the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was   $53 million  ,   $49 million   and   $53 million  , respectively, or   $36.75  ,   $33.76   and   $28.77   per restricted or deferred share, respectively.  The total fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and deferred stock vested during the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012    was   $86 million  ,   $89 million   and   $81 million  , respectively. 
     Stock Options:    Altria Group, Inc. has not granted stock options since 2002, and there have been   no   stock options outstanding since February 29, 2012.  The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the year ended December 31, 2012 was insignificant.  

Note 12  .  Earnings per Share 
  Basic and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) were calculated using the following: 

Since February 29, 2012, there have been   no   stock options outstanding.  For the   2012   computation, there were   no   antidilutive stock options. 

52 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Note 13  .  Other Comprehensive Earnings/Losses 
  The following tables set forth the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive losses, net of deferred income taxes, attributable to Altria Group, Inc.:      

(1)     For the years ended December 31, 2014,   2013   and   2012  , Altria Group, Inc. s proportionate share of SABMiller s other comprehensive earnings/losses consisted primarily of currency translation adjustments. 

53 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   The following table sets forth pre-tax amounts by component, reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive losses to net earnings:   

(1)     Amounts are included in net defined benefit plan costs.  For further details, see   Note 16  .   Benefit Plans. 
    
   (2)     Amounts are included in earnings from equity investment in SABMiller.  For further information on Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller, see   Note 6  .   Investment in SABMiller. 
    
    Note 14  .  Income Taxes 
    Earnings before income taxes and provision for income taxes consisted of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  :    

Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. subsidiaries join in the filing of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return.  The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2007 and forward, with years 2007 to 2009 currently under examination by the IRS as part of a routine audit conducted in the ordinary course of business.  State jurisdictions have statutes of limitations generally ranging from   three   to   four   years.  Certain of Altria Group, Inc. s state tax returns are currently under examination by various states as part of routine audits conducted in the ordinary course of business. 

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   was as follows:    

Unrecognized tax benefits and Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated liability for tax contingencies at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , were as follows:   

54 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at   December 31, 2014   was   $207 million  , along with   $51 million   affecting deferred taxes.  However, the impact on net earnings at   December 31, 2014   would be   $177 million  , as a result of the net receivable from Altria Group, Inc. s former subsidiary, Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ), of   $30 million   discussed below.  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at   December 31, 2013   was   $212 million  , along with   $15 million   affecting deferred taxes.  However, the impact on net earnings at   December 31, 2013   would be   $173 million  , as a result of net receivables from Altria Group, Inc. s former subsidiaries Kraft Foods Inc. (now known as Mondel z International, Inc. ( Mondel z )) and PMI of   $9 million   and   $30 million  , respectively, discussed below.  
  Under tax sharing agreements entered into in connection with the 2007 and 2008 spin-offs between Altria Group, Inc. and its former subsidiaries Mondel z and PMI, respectively, Mondel z and PMI are responsible for their respective pre-spin-off tax obligations.  Altria Group, Inc., however, remains severally liable for Mondel z s and PMI s pre-spin-off federal tax obligations pursuant to regulations governing federal consolidated income tax returns, and continues to include the pre-spin-off federal income tax reserves of PMI of   $30 million   in its liability for uncertain tax positions.  Altria Group, Inc. also includes corresponding receivables/payables from/to PMI in its other assets and other liabilities on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet at   December 31, 2014  .  As of December 31, 2014, there are   no   remaining pre-spin-off tax reserves related to Mondel z.  
  During   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. recorded net tax benefits of   $2 million   and   $22 million  , respectively, for Mondel z tax matters, primarily relating to the IRS audit of Altria Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries  2007-2009 tax years.  
  During 2012, Altria Group, Inc. recorded an additional income tax provision of   $52 million   for Mondel z and PMI tax matters, primarily as a result of the closure in August 2012 of the IRS audit of Altria Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries  2004-2006 tax years ( IRS 2004-2006 Audit ).   
   The net tax benefits of   $2 million   and   $22 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, were offset by the recording of corresponding net payables to Mondel z, which were recorded as a decrease to operating income on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings for the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. The additional income tax provision of   $52 million   for the year ended December 31, 2012 was offset by increases to the corresponding receivables from Mondel z and PMI, which were recorded as increases to operating income on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2012.  Due to these offsets, the Mondel z and PMI tax matters had no impact on Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had   $57 million   of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately   

$7 million   related to PMI, for which PMI is responsible under its tax sharing agreement.  At   December 31, 2013  , Altria Group, Inc. had   $48 million   of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately   $2 million   and   $6 million   related to Mondel z and PMI, respectively, for which Mondel z and PMI are responsible under their respective tax sharing agreements.  The corresponding receivables/payables from/to Mondel z and PMI were included in  assets and liabilities on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . 
  For the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , Altria Group, Inc. recognized in its consolidated statements of earnings   $14 million  ,   $5 million   and   $(88) million  , respectively, of gross interest expense (income) associated with uncertain tax positions. 
  Altria Group, Inc. is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions.  Uncertain tax positions reflect the difference between tax positions taken or expected to be taken on income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements.  Resolution of the related tax positions with the relevant tax authorities may take many years to complete, and such timing is not entirely within the control of Altria Group, Inc.  It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain examinations will be resolved, which could result in a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately   $139 million  , a portion of which would relate to the unrecognized tax benefits of PMI, for which Altria Group, Inc. is indemnified by PMI under its tax sharing agreement. 
  The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  : 

The tax provision in   2014   included net tax benefits of (i)   $14 million   from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required that was recorded during the third quarter of   2014   (  $19 million  ), partially offset by additional tax provisions recorded during the  fourth quarter of   2014   (  $5 million  ); and (ii)   $2 million   for Mondel z tax matters discussed above.  
  The tax provision in   2013   included net tax benefits of (i)   $39 million   from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required that was recorded during the third quarter of 2013 (  $25 million  ) and fourth quarter of 2013 (  $14 million  ); (ii)   $25 million   related to the recognition of previously unrecognized foreign tax credits primarily associated with SABMiller dividends that were recorded during the fourth quarter of 2013; and (iii)   $22 million    

55 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     for Mondel z tax matters discussed above.  The tax provision in 2013 also included a reduction in certain consolidated tax benefits resulting from the 2013 debt tender offer that is discussed further in   Note 9  .   Long-Term Debt  .  
  The tax provision in 2012 included (i) a   $73 million   interest benefit resulting primarily from lower than estimated interest on tax underpayments related to the Closing Agreement; (ii) the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest of   $53 million   due primarily to the closure of the IRS 2004-2006 Audit that was recorded during the third quarter of 2012; and (iii) an additional tax provision of   $52 million   related to the resolution of various Mondel z and PMI tax matters.  These amounts are primarily reflected in uncertain tax positions shown in the table above.  The 2012 SABMiller dividend benefit and domestic manufacturing deduction shown in the table above includes a reduction in consolidated tax benefits resulting from the 2012 debt tender offer that is discussed further in   Note 9  .   Long-Term Debt  .   
  In addition, as a result of the Closing Agreement, Altria Group, Inc. paid, in June 2012,   $456 million   in federal income taxes and related estimated interest on tax underpayments.  The tax component of these payments represents an acceleration of federal income taxes that Altria Group, Inc. would have otherwise paid over the lease terms of the subject lease transactions.  Altria Group, Inc. previously paid a total of approximately   $1.1 billion   (  $945 million   in 2010) in federal income taxes and interest with respect to these transactions.  Altria Group, Inc. treated the   $1.1 billion   paid to the IRS as deposits for financial reporting purposes pending the ultimate outcomes of the litigation and did not include such amounts in the supplemental disclosure of cash paid for income taxes on the consolidated statements of cash flows in the years paid.  During the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, Altria Group, Inc. relinquished its right to seek refunds of the deposits and included approximately   $750 million   and   $362 million  , respectively, in the supplemental disclosure of cash paid for income taxes on the consolidated statements of cash flows.   
  For further discussion of the Closing Agreement, see   Note 7  .   Finance Assets, net. 

The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  : 

At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had estimated gross state tax net operating losses of   $512 million   that, if unused, will expire in   2015   through   2034  , state tax credit carryforwards of   $62 million   that, if unused, will expire in   2015   through   2017  , and foreign tax credit carryforwards of   $324 million   that, if unused, will expire in   2020   through   2024  .  Realization of these benefits is dependent upon various factors such as generating sufficient taxable income in the applicable states and receiving sufficient amounts of lower-taxed foreign dividends from SABMiller.  A valuation allowance of   $211 million   has been established for these benefits that more-likely-than-not will not be realized.  
    Note 15  .  Segment Reporting 
  The products of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries include smokeable products comprised of cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA and machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton; smokeless products, substantially all of which are manufactured and sold by USSTC; and wine produced and/or distributed by Ste. Michelle.  The products and services of these subsidiaries constitute Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments of smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in all other. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments is defined as operating income before amortization of intangibles and general corporate expenses.  Interest and other debt expense, net, and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they  

56 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in   Note 4  .   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net.    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in   Note 2  .   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. 
  Segment data were as follows: 

The smokeable products segment included net revenues of   $21,363 million  ,   $21,308 million   and   $21,615 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, related to cigarettes and net revenues of   $576 million  ,   $560 million   and   $601 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively, related to cigars.   
  PM USA, USSTC and Middleton s largest customer, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately   27%   of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for each of the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  .  Substantially all of these net revenues were reported in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments.  Sales to   three   distributors accounted for approximately   67%   of net revenues for the wine segment for the year ended December 31, 2014 and   66%   for each of the years ended December 31,   2013   and   2012  . 

Details of Altria Group, Inc. s depreciation expense and capital expenditures were as follows:   

  The comparability of operating companies income for the reportable segments was affected by the following: 
     Non-Participating Manufacturer ( NPM ) Adjustment Items:    For the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , pre-tax income for NPM adjustment items was recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows: 

These adjustments resulted from the settlement of, and determinations made in connection with, disputes with certain states and territories related to the NPM adjustment provision under the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) for the years 2003-2012 (such settlements and determinations are referred to collectively as  NPM Adjustment Items  and are more fully described in   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  .   Contingencies  )  .    The amounts shown in the table above for the smokeable products segment were recorded by PM USA as reductions to cost of sales, which increased operating companies income in the smokeable products segment. 
     Tobacco and Health Litigation Items:    For the years ended December 31,   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , pre-tax charges related to certain tobacco and health litigation items were recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows:   

57 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     During the second quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA recorded an aggregate pre-tax charge of   $31 million   in marketing, administration and research costs for the estimated costs of implementing the corrective communications remedy in connection with the federal government s lawsuit against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.  For further discussion, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation   -   Federal Government s Lawsuit   in   Note 18  .   Contingencies  . 
    
     Asset Impairment and Exit Costs:    Asset impairment and exit costs for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 

During 2014, PM USA sold its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility for approximately   $66 million   in connection with the previously completed manufacturing optimization program associated with PM USA s closure of the manufacturing facility in 2009.  As a result, during 2014, PM USA recorded a pre-tax gain of   $10 million  . 
  The pre-tax asset impairment and exit costs for the year ended December 31, 2012 were due primarily to Altria Group, Inc. s cost reduction program announced in 2011 (the  2011 Cost Reduction Program ). 
    Note 16  .  Benefit Plans 
  Subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of all employees of Altria Group, Inc.  However, employees hired on or after a date specific to their employee group are not eligible to participate in these noncontributory defined benefit pension plans but are instead eligible to participate in a defined contribution plan with enhanced benefits.  This transition for new hires occurred from October 1, 2006 to January 1, 2008.  In addition, effective January 1, 2010, certain employees of UST and Middleton who were participants in noncontributory defined benefit pension plans ceased to earn additional benefit service under those plans and became eligible to participate in a defined contribution plan with enhanced benefits.  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries also provide health care and other benefits to the majority of retired employees. 
  The plan assets and benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans and the benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement plans are measured at December 31 of each year. 

Pension Plans 
     Obligations and Funded Status:    The projected benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , were as follows: 

Amounts recognized in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , were as follows: 

The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits earned to date, for the pension plans was   $7.9 billion   and   $6.8 billion   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  At   December 31, 2014  , the accumulated benefit obligations were in excess of plan assets for all pension plans.  For plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at   December 31, 2013  , the projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair value of plan assets were   $299 million  ,   $261 million   and   $66 million  , respectively.  These amounts were primarily related to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under IRS regulations.  
  The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s benefit obligations under the plans at December 31: 

The discount rates for Altria Group, Inc. s plans were developed from a model portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the benefit obligations. 
  At December 31, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. updated its mortality assumptions to reflect longer life expectancy for its pension plan participants, resulting in an increase of   $401 million   to the projected benefit obligation at December 31, 2014. 

58 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

        Components of Net Periodic Benefit Cost:    Net periodic pension cost consisted of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  :      

  Termination and settlement shown in the table above primarily include charges related to the 2011 Cost Reduction Program. 
  The amounts included in termination and settlement in the table above were comprised of the following changes: 

For the pension plans, the estimated net loss and prior service cost that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net periodic benefit cost during 2015 are   $237 million   and   $7 million  , respectively. 
  The following weighted-average assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net pension cost for the years ended December 31: 

Altria Group, Inc. sponsors deferred profit-sharing plans covering certain salaried, non-union and union employees. Contributions and costs are determined generally as a percentage of earnings, as defined by the plans.  Amounts charged to expense for these defined contribution plans totaled   $82 million  ,   $80 million   and   $81 million   in   2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , respectively. 

Plan Assets:    Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategy is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term.  Altria Group, Inc. believes that it implements the investment strategy in a prudent and risk-controlled manner, consistent with the fiduciary requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, by investing retirement plan assets in a well-diversified mix of equities, fixed income and other securities that reflects the impact of the demographic mix of plan participants on the benefit obligation using a target asset allocation between equity securities and fixed income investments of   55%  /  45%  .  The composition of Altria Group, Inc. s plan assets at   December 31, 2014   was broadly characterized as an allocation between equity securities (  55%  ), corporate bonds (  33%  ), U.S. Treasury and foreign government securities (  7%  ) and all other types of investments (  5%  ).  Virtually all pension assets can be used to make monthly benefit payments. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment objective is accomplished by investing in U.S. and international equity index strategies that are intended to mirror indices such as the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index, Research Affiliates Fundamental Index ( RAFI ) Low Volatility U.S. Index, and Morgan Stanley Capital International ( MSCI ) Europe, Australasia, and the Far East ( EAFE ) Index.  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans also invest in actively managed international equity securities of large, mid and small cap companies located in developed and emerging markets, as well as long duration fixed income securities that primarily include corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries.  The allocation to below investment grade securities represented   19%   of the fixed income holdings or   9%   of total plan assets at   December 31, 2014  .  The allocation to emerging markets represented   5%   of the equity holdings or   2%   of total plan assets at   December 31, 2014  .  The allocation to real estate and private equity investments was immaterial at   December 31, 2014  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans risk management practices include ongoing monitoring of asset allocation, investment performance and investment managers  compliance with their investment guidelines, periodic rebalancing between equity and debt asset classes and annual actuarial re-measurement of plan liabilities. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined by the plan assets  historical long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class.  The forward-looking estimates are consistent with the overall long-term averages exhibited by returns on equity and fixed income securities. 

59 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The fair values of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plan assets by asset category were as follows: 
  Investments at Fair Value as of December 31, 2014      

Investments at Fair Value as of December 31, 2013      

  Level 3 holdings and transactions were immaterial to total plan assets at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . 

60 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the three levels of inputs used to measure fair value, see   Note 2  .   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  . 
  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies used for investments measured at fair value. 
             
    Common/Collective Trusts  : Common/collective trusts consist of funds that are intended to mirror indices such as Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index and MSCI EAFE Index.  They are valued on the basis of the relative interest of each participating investor in the fair value of the underlying assets of each of the respective common/collective trusts.  The underlying assets are valued based on the net asset value ( NAV ) as provided by the investment account manager. 
                
    U.S. and Foreign Government Securities  : U.S. and foreign government securities consist of investments in Treasury Nominal Bonds and Inflation Protected Securities and municipal securities.  Government securities are valued at a price that is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information, such as broker quotes.  Matrix pricing, yield curves and indices are used when broker quotes are not available. 
                
    Corporate Debt Instruments  : Corporate debt instruments are valued at a price that is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information, such as broker quotes.  Matrix pricing, yield curves and indices are used when broker quotes are not available. 
                
    Common Stock  : Common stocks are valued based on the price of the security as listed on an open active exchange on last trade date. 
                
    Registered Investment Companies  : Investments in mutual funds sponsored by a registered investment company are valued based on exchange listed prices and are classified in Level 1.  Registered investment company funds that are designed specifically to meet Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategies, but are not traded on an active market, are valued based on the NAV of the underlying securities as provided by the investment account manager and are classified in Level 2. 
        Cash Flows:    Altria Group, Inc. makes contributions to the pension plans to the extent that the contributions are tax deductible and pays benefits that relate to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under IRS regulations.  Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making employer contributions to its pension plans of approximately   $20 million   to  

$50 million   in 2015 based on current tax law.  However, this estimate is subject to change as a result of changes in tax and other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates. 
  The estimated future benefit payments from the Altria Group, Inc. pension plans at   December 31, 2014  , were as follows:      

  Postretirement Benefit Plans 
  Net postretirement health care costs consisted of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  : 

The curtailment gain shown in the table above resulted from plan amendments made to an Altria Group, Inc. postretirement plan during 2012 related to the 2011 Cost Reduction Program.  The curtailment gain was recorded as a reduction to prior service credit in other comprehensive earnings/losses. 
  For the postretirement benefit plans, the estimated net loss and prior service credit that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net postretirement health care costs during 2015 are   $46 million   and   $(39) million  , respectively. 
  The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net postretirement cost for the years ended December 31: 

61 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement health care plans are not funded.  The changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , were as follows: 

The current portion of Altria Group, Inc. s accrued postretirement health care costs of   $152 million   and   $162 million   at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively, is included in other accrued liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. 
  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, was signed into law in March 2010.  The PPACA mandates health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 to 2018, including the imposition of an excise tax on high cost health care plans effective in 2018.  The additional accumulated postretirement liability resulting from the PPACA, which is not material to Altria Group, Inc., has been included in Altria Group, Inc. s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at   December 31, 2014   and   2013  .  Given the complexity of the PPACA and the extended time period during which implementation is expected to occur, future adjustments to Altria Group, Inc. s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation may be necessary. 
  The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement benefit obligations at December 31:   

         At December 31, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. updated its mortality assumptions to reflect longer life expectancy for its postretirement health care plan participants, resulting in an increase of   $110 million   to the accrued postretirement health care costs at December 31, 2014. 

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the health care plans.  A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects as of   December 31, 2014  :  
                           
    One-Percentage-Point 
  Increase 

One-Percentage-Point 
  Decrease 
      
      Effect on total of service and interest cost 
    6.3 
    % 
      
    (5.4 
    )% 
      Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 
    7.2 

(6.0 
    ) 

Altria Group, Inc. s estimated future benefit payments for its postretirement health care plans at   December 31, 2014  , were as follows: 

Postemployment Benefit Plans 
  Altria Group, Inc. sponsors postemployment benefit plans covering substantially all salaried and certain hourly employees.  The cost of these plans is charged to expense over the working life of the covered employees.  Net postemployment costs consisted of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  : 

For the postemployment benefit plans, the estimated net loss that is expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net postemployment costs during 2015 is approximately   $19 million  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. s postemployment benefit plans are not funded.  The changes in the benefit obligations of the plans at  

62 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     December 31, 2014   and   2013  , were as follows:      

The accrued postemployment costs were determined using a weighted-average discount rate of   3.0%   and   3.7%   in   2014   and   2013  , respectively, an assumed weighted-average ultimate annual turnover rate of   0.5%   in   2014   and   2013  , assumed compensation cost increases of   4.0%   in   2014   and   2013  , and assumed benefits as defined in the respective plans.  Postemployment costs arising from actions that offer employees benefits in excess of those specified in the respective plans are charged to expense when incurred.  

Comprehensive Earnings/Losses 
  The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at   December 31, 2014   consisted of the following:   

  The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at   December 31, 2013   consisted of the following: 

The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended   December 31, 2014   were as follows:   

63 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended   December 31, 2013   were as follows:   

  The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended   December 31, 2012   were as follows:   

Note 17  .  Additional Information 

64 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

          Minimum rental commitments and sublease income under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at   December 31, 2014   were as follows: 

The activity in the allowance for discounts and allowance for returned goods for the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012 was as follows: 

(1)    Represents the recording of discounts and returns for which allowances were created. 
    
      Note 18  .  Contingencies 
  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors or distributors. 
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation.  Damages claimed in some tobacco-related and other litigation are or can be significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars.  The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.  In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several.  In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts.   

Furthermore, in those cases where plaintiffs are successful, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may also be required to pay interest and attorneys  fees. 
  Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases.  This risk has been substantially reduced given that 46 states and Puerto Rico limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.  As discussed below, however, tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well.  Such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court.   Although Altria Group, Inc. cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except to the extent discussed elsewhere in this   Note 18  .   Contingencies  : (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related  

65 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.  Legal defense costs are expensed as incurred.  
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation.  Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain.  It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially  

affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.  Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts.  Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.  However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so. 

Overview of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA Tobacco-Related Litigation  
       Types and Number of Cases:    Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs; (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding; (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) plaintiffs seeking  

reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits; (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law or statutory fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of warranty or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO  and (v) other tobacco-related litigation described below.  Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases are discussed below.   

The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, Altria Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2014,   December 31, 2013   and   December 31, 2012  .  

(1)      Does not include   2,558   cases brought by flight attendants seeking compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ).  The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action in Florida, which was settled in 1997 (  Broin  ).  The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allow class members to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibit them from seeking punitive damages.  Also, does not include individual smoking and health cases brought by or on behalf of plaintiffs in Florida state and federal courts following the decertification of the   Engle   case (discussed below in   Smoking and Health Litigation - Engle Class Action  ).   
   (2)    Includes as one case the   600   civil actions (of which   346   were actions against PM USA) that were to be tried in a single proceeding in West Virginia (  In re: Tobacco Litigation  ).  The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals has ruled that the United States Constitution did not preclude a trial in two phases in this case.  Issues related to defendants  conduct and whether punitive damages are permissible were tried in the first phase.  Trial in the first phase of this case began in April 2013.  In May 2013, the jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on the claims for design defect, negligence, failure to warn, breach of warranty, and concealment and declined to find that the defendants  conduct warranted punitive damages.  Plaintiffs prevailed on their claim that ventilated filter cigarettes should have included use instructions for the period 1964 - 1969.  The second phase, if any, will consist of individual trials to determine liability and compensatory damages on that claim only.  In August 2013, the trial court denied all post-trial motions.  The trial court entered final judgment in October 2013 and, in November 2013, plaintiffs filed their notice of appeal to the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals.  On November 3, 2014, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals affirmed the final judgment.  Plaintiffs filed a petition for rehearing with the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals, which the court denied on January 8, 2015. 
   (3)      See   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   below. 

66 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

        International Tobacco-Related Cases:   As of January 27, 2015, PM USA is a named defendant in   ten   health care cost recovery actions in Canada,   eight   of which also name Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant. PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are also named defendants in   seven   smoking and health class actions filed in various Canadian provinces.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.  
     Tobacco-Related Cases Set for Trial:    As of January 27, 2015,   57   Engle   progeny cases and   three   individual smoking and health cases against PM USA are set for trial in 2015.  Cases against other companies in the tobacco industry are also scheduled for trial in 2015.  Trial dates are subject to change.  
     Trial Results:    Since January 1999, excluding the   Engle   progeny cases (separately discussed below), verdicts have been returned in   56   smoking and health,  Lights/Ultra Lights  and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in   38   of the   56   cases.  These   38   cases were tried in Alaska (1), California (6), Florida (10), Louisiana (1), Massachusetts (1), Mississippi (1), Missouri (3), New Hampshire (1), New Jersey (1), New York (5), Ohio (2), Pennsylvania (1), Rhode Island (1), Tennessee (2) and West Virginia (2).  A motion for a new trial was granted in one of the cases in Florida and in the case in Alaska.      In the Alaska case (  Hunter  ), the trial court withdrew its order for a new trial upon PM USA s motion for reconsideration.  Oral argument of plaintiff s appeal of this ruling occurred in September 2014.  See   Types and Number of Cases   above for a discussion of the trial results in   In re: Tobacco Litigation   (West Virginia consolidated cases). 

Of the   18   non-  Engle   progeny cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs,   15   have reached final resolution.  A verdict against defendants in   one   health care cost recovery case (  Blue Cross/Blue Shield  ) was reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice.  In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported  Lights  class action in Illinois (  Price  ) was reversed and the case was dismissed with prejudice in December 2006, but plaintiff is seeking to reinstate the verdict, which an intermediate appellate court ordered in April 2014.  PM USA filed a petition for leave to appeal, which automatically stayed the April 2014 order.  In September 2014, the Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for leave to appeal.  See    Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases - The Price Case   below for a discussion of developments in   Price  .   
       As of January 27, 2015,   70   state and federal   Engle   progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court s   Engle   decision.    Thirty-six   verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs and   34   verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA.  See   Smoking and Health Litigation - Engle Progeny Trial Court Results   below for a discussion of these verdicts.    
     Judgments Paid and Provisions for Tobacco and Health Litigation (Including   Engle   Progeny Litigation):    After exhausting all appeals in those cases resulting in adverse verdicts associated with tobacco-related litigation, since October 2004, PM USA has paid in the aggregate judgments (and related costs and fees) totaling approximately   $266 million   and interest totaling approximately   $144 million   as of December 31, 2014.  These amounts include payments for   Engle   progeny judgments (and related costs and fees) totaling approximately   $13.8 million   and interest totaling approximately   $2.5 million  . 

The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s accrued liability for tobacco and health judgments, including related interest costs, for the periods specified below were as follows:                                       
    For the Years Ended December 31, 
        
    2014 
      
    2013 
      
    2012 
        
           (in millions) 
      Accrued liability for tobacco and health judgments at beginning of period 
    $ 
    3 

$ 

$ 
    122 
      
      Pre-tax charges for tobacco and health judgments 
    11 

18 

4 
      
      Pre-tax charges for related interest costs 
    2 

4 

1 
      
      Pre-tax charges related to implementation of corrective communications remedy pursuant to the federal government s lawsuit 
    31 

Payments 
    (8 
    ) 
      
    (19 
    ) 
      
    (127 
    ) 
      Accrued liability for tobacco and health judgments at end of period 
    $ 
    39 

$ 
    3 

$ 

The accrued liability for tobacco and health litigation, including related interest costs, was included in liabilities on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets.  Pre-tax charges for tobacco and health judgments and corrective communications were included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.  Pre-tax charges for related interest costs were included in interest and other debt expense, net on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. 
      
  67 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Security for Judgments:    To obtain stays of judgments pending current appeals, as of   December 31, 2014  , PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately   $61 million  , the majority of which has been collateralized with cash deposits that are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 
  Smoking and Health Litigation 
     Overview:    Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.  Plaintiffs in the smoking and health cases seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.  
     Non-  Engle   Progeny Trial Results:    Summarized below are the non-  Engle   progeny smoking and health cases pending during 2014 or 2015 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs and against PM USA.  Charts listing the verdicts for plaintiffs in the   Engle   progeny cases can be found in   Smoking and Health Litigation - Engle Progeny Trial Court Results   below.    
    
  Mulholland  : In   July 2013  , a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and awarded   $5.5 million   in compensatory damages against PM USA.  In   August 2013  , after taking into account a prior recovery by the plaintiff against third parties, the court entered final judgment in the amount of   $4.9 million  .  In September 2013, PM USA filed a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law and plaintiff moved to modify the amount of the judgment.  In December 2013, the trial court denied the parties  post-trial motions.  In January 2014, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, plaintiff cross-appealed and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $5.5 million  .  On January 7, 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit affirmed the trial court s decision.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, PM USA recorded a provision on its consolidated balance sheet in the amount of approximately   $5 million   for the judgment plus interest and paid this amount on January 21, 2015. 

Schwarz  :      In   March 2002  , an Oregon jury awarded    $168,500   in compensatory damages and   $150 million   in punitive damages against PM USA.  In   May 2002  , the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to   $100 million  .  In May 2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any. In June 2006, plaintiff petitioned the Oregon Supreme Court to review the portion of the court of appeals  decision reversing and remanding the case for a new trial on punitive damages.  In June 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the court of appeals  decision and remanded the case to the trial court for a new trial limited to the question of punitive damages.  In   December 2010  , the Oregon Supreme Court reaffirmed its earlier ruling and awarded PM USA approximately   $500,000   in costs.  In March 2011, PM USA filed a claim against the plaintiff for its costs and disbursements on appeal, plus interest.  Trial on the amount of punitive damages began in January 2012.  In   February 2012  , the jury awarded plaintiff   $25 million   in punitive damages.  In September 2012, PM USA filed a notice of appeal from the trial court s judgment with the Oregon Court of Appeals.  Oral argument at the Oregon Court of Appeals occurred in September 2014. 
    
  See   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   below for a discussion of the verdict and post-trial developments in the   United States of America   healthcare cost recovery case. 
     Engle   Class Action:    In   July 2000  , in the second phase of the   Engle   smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately   $145 billion   against various defendants, including   $74 billion   against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA appealed.  
  In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that execution of the punitive damages component of the   Engle   judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review.  As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed   $500 million   into an interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, was to be paid to the court and the court was to determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure.  In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class.  Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.  
  In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within one year of issuance of the mandate.  The  

68 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled to   res judicata   effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that defendants were negligent.  The court also reinstated compensatory damages awards totaling approximately   $6.9 million   to two individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations.  In   February 2008  , PM USA paid approximately   $3 million  , representing its share of compensatory damages and interest, to the two individual plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order. 
  In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have   res judicata   effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by   Engle   class members.  The rehearing motion also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Florida Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed.  Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class.  In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to   res judicata   effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations of fact made by defendants.  In January 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion.  Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Florida Third District Court of Appeal or by the Florida  
  Supreme Court.  In February 2007, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal denied defendants  motion.  In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Florida Third District Court of Appeal.  In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States  

Supreme Court.  In October 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition.  In November 2007, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for rehearing from the denial of their petition for   writ of certiorari  .  
  In February 2008, the trial court decertified the class, except for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation, and formally vacated the punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate.  In April 2008, the trial court ruled that certain defendants, including PM USA, lacked standing with respect to allocation of the funds escrowed under the May 2001 bond stipulation and would receive no credit at that time from the $500 million paid by PM USA against any future punitive damages awards in cases brought by former   Engle   class members.  
  In May 2008, the trial court, among other things, decertified the limited class maintained for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation and, in July 2008, severed the remaining plaintiffs  claims except for those of Howard Engle.  The only remaining plaintiff in the   Engle   case, Howard Engle, voluntarily dismissed his claims with prejudice.  
     Engle   Progeny Cases:    The deadline for filing   Engle   progeny cases, as required by the Florida Supreme Court s   Engle   decision, expired in January 2008.  As of January 27, 2015, approximately   3,200   state court cases were pending against PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately   4,200   state court plaintiffs.  Furthermore, as of January 27, 2015, approximately   700   cases were pending against PM USA in federal district court asserting individual claims by or on behalf of a similar number of federal court plaintiffs.  Most of these federal cases are pending in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida.  Because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, docketing delays, duplicated filings and overlapping dismissal orders, these numbers are estimates. 
  In July 2013, the district court issued an order transferring, for case management purposes, all the Middle District of Florida   Engle   progeny cases to a judge presiding in the District of Massachusetts.  The order directed that the cases will remain in the Middle District of Florida and that such judge will be designated a judge of that district for purposes of managing the cases.  The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida dismissed a significant number of cases, of which approximately   750   were appealed by plaintiffs to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  In September 2014, the Eleventh Circuit affirmed those dismissals.  All remaining cases pending in the Middle District of Florida have been activated or are scheduled to be activated by May 2015. 
     Engle   Progeny Trial Results:    As of January 27, 2015,   70   federal and state   Engle   progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court  

69 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Engle   decision.    Thirty-six   verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs. 
    Thirty-four   verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA (  Gelep  ,   Kalyvas  ,   Gil de Rubio  ,   Warrick  ,   Willis  ,   Russo   (formerly   Frazier  ),   C. Campbell  ,   Rohr  ,   Espinosa  ,   Oliva  ,   Weingart  ,   Junious  ,   Szymanski  ,   Gollihue  ,   McCray  ,   Denton  ,   Hancock  ,   Wilder  ,   D. Cohen  ,   LaMotte  ,   J. Campbell  ,   Dombey  ,   Haldeman  ,   Jacobson  ,   Blasco  ,   Gonzalez  ,   Reider  ,   Banks  ,   Surico  ,   Davis  ,   Baum  ,   Bishop  ,   Starbuck   and   Vila  ).  In addition, there have been a number of mistrials, only some of which have resulted in new trials as of January 27, 2015. The juries in the   Reider   and   Banks   cases returned zero damages verdicts in favor of PM USA  .    The juries in the   Weingart   and   Hancock   cases returned verdicts against PM USA awarding no damages, but the trial court in each case granted an   additur  .  In the   Russo   case (formerly   Frazier  ), however, the Florida  

Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment in defendants  favor in April 2012 and remanded the case for a new trial.  Defendants sought review of the case in the Florida Supreme Court, which was granted in September 2013.  Oral argument occurred in April 2014 in the Florida Supreme Court on the question of whether the statute of repose applies in   Engle   progeny cases. 
  The charts below list the verdicts and post-trial developments in certain   Engle   progeny cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs (including   Hancock  , where the verdict originally was returned in favor of PM USA).  The first chart lists such cases that are pending as of January 27, 2015; the second chart lists such cases that were pending in 2014, but that are now concluded.    

Currently-Pending Cases 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Brown 
  Date:        January 2015    
    
  Verdict: 
  On January 21, 2015, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict against PM USA awarding plaintiff approximately   $8.3 million   in compensatory damages and   $9 million   in punitive damages. 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Allen 
  Date:        November 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  On November 26, 2014, a Duval County jury returned a verdict against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ( R.J. Reynolds ) awarding plaintiff approximately   $3.1 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   6%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded approximately   $7.76 million   in punitive damages against each defendant.  This was a retrial of a 2011 trial that awarded plaintiff   $6 million   in compensatory damages and   $17 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On December 9, 2014, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and motions for a new trial.  
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Perrotto 
  Date:        November 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  On November 21, 2014, a Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard Tobacco Company ( Lorillard ) and Liggett Group LLC ( Liggett Group ) awarding plaintiff approximately   $4.1 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   25%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $1.02 million  ).  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On December 4, 2014, the court entered final judgment.  On December 5, 2014, plaintiff filed a motion for a new trial.  On December 8, 2014, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and motions for a new trial. 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Boatright 
  Date:        November 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  On November 10, 2014, a Polk County jury returned a verdict against PM USA and Liggett Group awarding plaintiff   $15 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   85%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $12.75 million  ).  On November 12, 2014, the jury  
      
  70 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   awarded plaintiff approximately   $19.7 million   in punitive damages against PM USA and $300,000 in punitive damages against Liggett Group. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On November 25, 2014, PM USA filed various post-trial motions.  On January 20, 2015, the court denied PM USA s motions for a new trial and for   remittitur  , but agreed to reduce the compensatory damages award by the jury s assessment of comparative fault.   
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Kerrivan 
  Date:        October 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding plaintiff   $15.8 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   50%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff    $25.3 million   in punitive damages and allocated   $15.7 million   to PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The trial court entered final judgment awarding plaintiff   $15.8 million   in compensatory damages and   $25.3 million   in punitive damages.  On December 11, 2014, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including a renewed motion for judgment or for a new trial.  Plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal. 
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Lourie 
  Date:        October 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Hillsborough County jury returned a verdict against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding plaintiff approximately   $1.37 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   27%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $370,000  ).  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On October 27, 2014, defendants filed a motion for judgment in accordance with their motion for directed verdict and a motion for a new trial.  The court denied defendants  post-trial motions on November 3, 2014 and, on November 6, 2014, entered final judgment.  On November 7, 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal.  On November 7, 2014, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $370,318  . 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Berger 
  Date:        September 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict against PM USA awarding plaintiff   $6.25 million   in compensatory damages and   $20.76 million   in punitive damages. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The court entered final judgment against PM USA in September 2014.  In October 2014, the court entered an order scheduling post-trial motions and confirming that plaintiff agreed to waive bond for appeal.  Also in October 2014, PM USA  filed a motion for a new trial or, in the alternative,   remittitur   of the jury s damages awards. 
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  71 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:   Harris    
  Date:      July 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding approximately   $1.73 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   15%   of the fault to PM USA.   
    
  Post-Trial Developments:   
  Defendants filed motions for a defense verdict because the jury s findings indicated that plaintiff was not a member of the   Engle   class.  On December 18, 2014, the court entered final judgment in favor of plaintiff.  On January 15, 2015, defendants filed a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, a motion for a new trial.  Defendants also filed a motion to alter or amend the final judgment.   
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Griffin    
  Date:      June 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding approximately   $1.27 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   50%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $630,000  ).     
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The court entered final judgment against PM USA in July 2014.  In August 2014, PM USA filed a motion to amend the judgment to reduce plaintiff s damages by the amount paid by collateral sources, which the court denied in September 2014.  In October 2014, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $640,543   and filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. District Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
  __________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Burkhart 
  Date:      May 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding   $5 million   in compensatory damages and allocating fault among the defendants as follows:   15%   to PM USA, 25% to R.J. Reynolds and 10% to Lorillard.  The court declined defendants  request to reduce the compensatory damages award by the jury s assessment of comparative fault, imposing joint and several liability.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $2.5 million   in punitive damages, allocating   $750,000   to PM USA.    
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In July 2014, defendants filed post-trial motions, including a renewed motion for judgment or, alternatively, for a new trial or   remittitur   of the damages awards, which the court denied in September 2014.  In October 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Bowden    
  Date:      March 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A Duval County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   30%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $1.5 million  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments:   
  The court entered final judgment against defendants in March 2014.      In April 2014, defendants filed post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdict.  In May 2014, the court denied defendants  post-trial motions.  In June 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $1.5 million  .   
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  72 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:   Goveia    
  Date:        February 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  An Orange County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $850,000   in compensatory damages and allocated   35%   of the fault against each defendant (an amount of   $297,500  ).  The jury also awarded   $2.25 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In February 2014, defendants filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In April 2014, the court denied defendants  motions and entered final judgment against defendants.  In April 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fifth District Court of Appeal.  In May 2014, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $2.5 million  . 
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Cuculino    
  Date:      January 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A Miami-Dade County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $12.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   40%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $5 million  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In January 2014, the court entered final judgment against PM USA, and PM USA filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In March 2014 and April 2014, the court denied PM USA s post-trial motions.  Also in April 2014, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal, plaintiff cross-appealed and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $5 million  .   
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Rizzuto 
  Date:      August 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Hernando County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $12.55 million   in compensatory damages.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In September 2013, defendants filed post-trial motions, including a motion to reduce damages.  In September 2013, the court granted a   remittitur   in part on economic damages, which the court reduced from   $2.55 million   to   $1.1 million   for a total award of   $11.1 million   in compensatory damages.  The court declined defendants  request to reduce the compensatory damages award by the jury s assessment of comparative fault, imposing joint and several liability for the compensatory damages.  The court denied all other motions except for defendants  motion for a juror interview, which was granted.  In October 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fifth District Court of Appeal, which ordered resolution of the juror issue prior to appeal.  In December 2013, subsequent to the juror interview, the court entered an order that granted no relief with respect to the alleged misconduct of the juror.  Plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal.    
  ___________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Skolnick 
  Date:      June 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $2.555 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   30%   of the fault to each defendant (an amount of   $766,500  ).   
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, defendants and plaintiff filed post-trial motions.  The court entered final judgment against defendants in July 2013.  In November 2013, the trial court denied plaintiff s post-trial motion and, in December 2013, denied defendants  post-trial motions.  Defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal, and plaintiffs cross-appealed in December 2013.  Also in December 2013, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $766,500  . 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  73 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:    Starr-Blundell 
  Date:      June 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Duval County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $500,000   in compensatory damages and allocated   10%   of the fault to each defendant (an amount of   $50,000  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, the defendants filed a motion to set aside the verdict and to enter judgment in accordance with their motion for directed verdict or, in the alternative, for a new trial, which was denied in October 2013.  In November 2013, final judgment was entered in favor of plaintiff affirming the compensatory damages award.  In December 2013, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal.  Plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal.   
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Ruffo 
  Date:        May 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Miami-Dade County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and Lorillard.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $1.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   12%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $180,000  ).   
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In May 2013, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdict, which the trial court denied in October 2013 and entered final judgment in favor of plaintiff.  In October 2013, PM USA and Lorillard appealed to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $180,000  .  On November 19, 2014, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, PM USA recorded a provision on its consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $193,000   for the judgment plus interest.  
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Graham 
  Date:        May 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds. The jury awarded   $2.75 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   10%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $275,000  ).   
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial, which the trial court denied in September 2013.  In October 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $277,750  .   
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Searcy 
  Date:        April 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $6 million   in compensatory damages (allocating   30%   of the fault to each defendant) and   $10 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, the trial court entered final judgment declining defendants  request to reduce the compensatory damages award by the jury s assessment of comparative fault and imposing joint and several liability for the compensatory damages.  In July 2013, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions requesting reductions in damages.  In September 2013, the district court reduced the compensatory damages award to   $1 million   and the punitive damages award to   $1.67 million   against each defendant.  The district court denied all other post-trial motions.  Plaintiffs filed a motion to reconsider the district court s   remittitur   and, in the alternative, to certify the issue to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, both of which the court denied in October 2013.  In November 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  In December 2013, defendants filed an  
      
  74 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   amended notice of appeal after the district court corrected a clerical error in the final judgment, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of approximately   $2.2 million  .   
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Buchanan    
  Date:         December 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Leon County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded   $5.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   37%   of the fault to each of the defendants (an amount of approximately   $2 million  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In December 2012, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdict.  In March 2013, the trial court denied all motions and entered final judgment against PM USA and Liggett Group refusing to reduce the compensatory damages award by plaintiff s comparative fault and holding PM USA and Liggett Group jointly and severally liable for   $5.5 million  .  In April 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $2.5 million  .  In July 2014, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment, but certified to the Florida Supreme Court the issue of the statute of repose, which is currently before the court in   Hess  .  In August 2014, defendants filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In September 2014, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the case pending the outcome of   Hess  .  
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Hancock 
  Date:         August 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in the amount of   zero   damages and allocated   5%   of the fault to each of the defendants (PM USA and R.J. Reynolds).  The trial court granted an   additur   of approximately   $110,000  , which is subject to the jury s comparative fault finding. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In August 2012, defendants moved to set aside the verdict and to enter judgment in accordance with their motion for directed verdict.  Defendants also moved to reduce damages, which motion the court granted.  The trial court granted defendants  motion to set off the damages award by the amount of economic damages paid by third parties, which will reduce further any final award.  In   October 2012  , the trial court entered final judgment.  PM USA s portion of the damages was approximately   $700  .  In November 2012, both sides filed notices of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Calloway 
  Date:         May 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded approximately   $21 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   25%   of the fault against PM USA, but the trial court ruled that it will not apply the comparative fault allocations because the jury found against each defendant on the intentional tort claims.  The jury also awarded approximately   $17 million   in punitive damages against PM USA, approximately $17 million in punitive damages against R.J. Reynolds, approximately $13 million in punitive damages against Lorillard and approximately $8 million in punitive damages against Liggett Group. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In May and June 2012, defendants filed motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In   August 2012  , the trial court denied the remaining post-trial motions and entered final judgment, reducing the total compensatory damages award to   $16.1 million   but leaving undisturbed the separate punitive damages awards.  In   September 2012  , PM USA posted a bond in an amount of   $1.5 million   and defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  In August 2013, plaintiff filed a motion to determine the sufficiency of the bond in the trial court on the ground that the bond cap statute is unconstitutional, which the court denied.   
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  75 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:    Hallgren 
  Date:         January 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Highland County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded approximately   $2 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   25%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $500,000  ).  The jury also awarded   $750,000   in punitive damages against each of the defendants. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The trial court entered final judgment in March 2012.  In   April 2012  , PM USA posted a bond in an amount of approximately   $1.25 million  .  In May 2012, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal.  In October 2013, the Second District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment.  In November 2013, defendants filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In June 2014, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the case pending the outcome of   Russo   (presenting the same statute of repose issue as   Hess)  . 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Kayton   (formerly   Tate  ) 
  Date:         July 2010    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA.  The jury awarded   $8 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   64%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $5.1 million  ).  The jury also awarded approximately   $16.2 million   in punitive damages against PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In   August 2010  , the trial court entered final judgment, and PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a   $5 million   bond.  In November 2012, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal reversed the punitive damages award and remanded the case for a new trial on plaintiff s conspiracy claim.  Upon retrial, if the jury finds in plaintiff s favor on that claim, the original $16.2 million punitive damages award will be reinstated.  PM USA filed a motion for rehearing, which was denied in January 2013.  In January 2013, plaintiff and defendant each filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In June 2013, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the appeal pending the outcome of   Hess  .     
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Putney 
  Date:         April 2010    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded approximately   $15.1 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   15%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $2.3 million  ).  The jury also awarded   $2.5 million   in punitive damages against PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In   August 2010  , the trial court entered final judgment.  PM USA filed its notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal and, in November 2010, posted a   $1.6 million   bond.  In June 2013, the Fourth District Court of Appeal reversed and remanded the case for further proceedings, holding that the trial court erred in (1) not reducing the compensatory damages award as excessive and (2) not instructing the jury on the statute of repose in connection with plaintiff s conspiracy claim that resulted in the $2.5 million punitive damages award.  In July 2013, plaintiff filed a motion for rehearing, which the Fourth District Court of Appeal denied in August 2013.  In September 2013, both parties filed notices to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In December 2013, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the appeal pending the outcome of the   Hess   case. 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    R. Cohen 
  Date:         March 2010    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $10 million   in compensatory damages and allocated 33 1/3% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $3.3 million  ).  The jury also awarded a total of   $20 million   in punitive damages, assessing separate   $10 million   awards against each defendant. 

76 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Post-Trial Developments: 
  In July 2010, the trial court entered final judgment and, in August 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal.  In   October 2010  , PM USA posted a   $2.5 million   bond.  In September 2012, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the compensatory damages award but reversed and remanded the punitive damages verdict.  The Fourth District returned the case to the trial court for a new jury trial on plaintiff s fraudulent concealment claim.  If the jury finds in plaintiff s favor on that claim, the $10 million punitive damages award against each defendant will be reinstated.  In January 2013, plaintiff and defendants each filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In February 2013, the Fourth District granted defendants  motion to stay the mandate.  In March 2013, plaintiff filed a motion for review of the stay order with the Florida Supreme Court, which was denied in April 2013.  In June 2013, plaintiff moved to consolidate with   Hess   and   Kayton,   which defendants did not oppose, but in October 2013, plaintiff withdrew the motion for consolidation  .    In February 2014, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the appeal pending the outcome of the   Hess   case. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Naugle 
  Date:         November 2009    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately   $56.6 million   in compensatory damages and   $244 million   in punitive damages. The jury allocated   90%   of the fault to PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In   March 2010  , the trial court entered final judgment reflecting a reduced award of approximately   $13 million   in compensatory damages and   $26 million   in punitive damages.  In   April 2010  , PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a   $5 million   bond. In   August 2010  , upon the motion of PM USA, the trial court entered an amended final judgment of approximately   $12.3 million   in compensatory damages and approximately   $24.5 million   in punitive damages to correct a clerical error.  In June 2012, the Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the amended final judgment.  In July 2012, PM USA filed a motion for rehearing.  In December 2012, the Fourth District withdrew its prior decision, reversed the verdict as to compensatory and punitive damages and returned the case to the trial court for a new trial on the question of damages.  In December 2012, plaintiff filed a motion for rehearing   en banc   or for certification to the Florida Supreme Court, which was denied in January 2013.  In February 2013, plaintiff and PM USA each filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court, which the Florida Supreme Court denied in February 2014.  Upon retrial on the question of damages, in October 2013, the new jury awarded approximately   $3.7 million   in compensatory damages and   $7.5 million   in punitive damages.  In October 2013, PM USA filed post-trial motions, which the trial court denied in April 2014.  In May 2014, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Fourth District Court of Appeal and plaintiff cross-appealed.  Also in May 2014, PM USA filed a rider with the Florida Supreme Court to make the previously-posted   Naugle   bond applicable to the retrial judgment. 
    
  ________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Hess 
  Date:         February 2009    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury found in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded   $3 million   in compensatory damages and   $5 million   in punitive damages. In   June 2009  , the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiff   $1.26 million   in actual damages and $5 million in punitive damages. The judgment reduced the jury s   $3 million   award of compensatory damages due to the jury allocating   42%   of the fault to PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal in July 2009.  In May 2012, the Fourth District reversed and vacated the punitive damages award on the basis that it was barred by the statute of repose and affirmed the judgment in all other respects, upholding the compensatory damages award of $1.26 million.  In June 2012, both parties filed rehearing motions with the Fourth District, which were denied in September 2012.  In October 2012, PM USA and plaintiff filed notices to invoke the Florida Supreme Court s discretionary jurisdiction.  In the first quarter of 2013, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $3.2 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs.  In June 2013, the Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction of plaintiff s petition for review, but declined to accept jurisdiction of PM USA s petition.  Oral argument was heard in April 2014 in the Florida Supreme Court on the statute of repose question. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

77 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Concluded Cases 
  ________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Tullo 
  Date:         April 2011           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, Lorillard and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded a total of   $4.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   45%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $2.025 million  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In April 2011, the trial court entered final judgment.  In   July 2011  , PM USA filed its notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal and posted a   $2 million   bond.  In August 2013, the Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment.  In October 2013, defendants filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court, which declined jurisdiction in September 2014.  In the third quarter of 2014, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $3.9 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs and paid this amount in October 2014. 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Barbanell 
  Date:         August 2009    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, awarding   $5.3 million   in compensatory damages. The judge had previously dismissed the punitive damages claim. In   September 2009  , the trial court entered final judgment and awarded plaintiff   $1.95 million   in actual damages.  The judgment reduced the jury s compensatory damages award due to the jury allocating   36.5%   of the fault to PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  A notice of appeal was filed by PM USA in September 2009.  In February 2012, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment, holding that the statute of limitations barred plaintiff s claims.  In October 2012, on motion for rehearing, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal withdrew its prior decision and affirmed the trial court s judgment.  In November 2012, PM USA filed a notice to invoke the jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court, which the Florida Supreme Court denied.  In the first quarter of 2014, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $3.6 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs.  In March 2014, PM USA filed a petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States Supreme Court, which was denied in June 2014.  Also in June 2014, PM USA paid the judgment plus interest and associated costs in the amount of approximately   $3.6 million  . 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Lock    
  Date:         October 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Pinellas County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $1.15 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   9%   of the fault to each of the defendants (an amount of   $103,500  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In November 2012, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial, to set aside the verdict and to reduce the damages award by the amount of economic damages paid by third parties.  In January 2013, the trial court orally denied all post-trial motions.  In February 2013, the trial court entered final judgment.  In March 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal.  In March 2014, PM USA paid the judgment plus interest and associated costs in the amount of approximately   $140,000  . 
  ____________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

Engle   Progeny Appellate Issues:    Three Florida federal district courts (in the   Merlob  ,   B. Brown   and   Burr   cases) ruled in 2008 that the findings in the first phase of the   Engle   proceedings cannot be used to satisfy elements of plaintiffs   

claims, and two of those rulings (  B. Brown   and   Burr  ) were certified by the trial court for interlocutory review.  The certification in both cases was granted by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and the appeals were  

78 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     consolidated.  The appeal in   Burr   was dismissed for lack of prosecution, and the case was ultimately dismissed on statute of limitations grounds. 
  In July 2010, the Eleventh Circuit ruled in   B. Brown   that, as a matter of Florida law, plaintiffs do not have an unlimited right to use the findings from the original   Engle   trial to meet their burden of establishing the elements of their claims at trial.  The Eleventh Circuit did not reach the issue of whether the use of the   Engle   findings violates defendants  due process rights.  Rather, the court held that plaintiffs may only use the findings to establish those specific facts, if any, that they demonstrate with a reasonable degree of certainty were actually decided by the original   Engle   jury.  The Eleventh Circuit remanded the case to the district court to determine what specific factual findings the   Engle   jury actually made. 
  After the remand of   B. Brown  , several state appellate rulings superseded the Eleventh Circuit s ruling on Florida state law.  These cases include   Martin  , a case against R.J. Reynolds in Escambia County, and   J. Brown  , a case against R.J. Reynolds in Broward County.  In December 2011, petitions for   writ of certiorari   were filed with the United States Supreme Court by R.J. Reynolds in   Campbell  ,   Martin  ,   Gray   and   Hall   and by PM USA and Liggett Group in   Campbell  .  The United States Supreme Court denied defendants    certiorari   petitions in March 2012.     
  In   Douglas  , in March 2012, the Florida Second District Court of Appeal issued a decision affirming the judgment of the trial court in favor of the plaintiff and upholding the use of the   Engle   jury findings with respect to strict liability claims but certified to the Florida Supreme Court the question of whether granting   res judicata   effect to the   Engle   jury findings violates defendants  federal due process rights.  In March 2013, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed the final judgment entered in favor of plaintiff upholding the use of the   Engle   jury findings with respect to strict liability and negligence claims.  PM USA filed its petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States Supreme Court in August 2013, which the court denied in October 2013.  
  Meanwhile, in the   Waggoner   case, the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida ruled in December 2011 that application of the   Engle   findings to establish the wrongful conduct elements of plaintiffs  claims consistent with   Martin   or   J. Brown   did not violate defendants  due process rights.  PM USA and the other defendants sought appellate review of the due process ruling.  In February 2012, the district court denied the motion for interlocutory appeal, but did apply the ruling to all active pending federal   Engle   progeny cases.  As a result, R.J. Reynolds appealed the rulings in the   Walker   and   Duke   cases to the Eleventh Circuit, which, in September 2013, rejected the due process defense and affirmed the underlying judgments.  In October 2013, R.J. Reynolds filed a petition for rehearing or rehearing   en banc  .  Thereafter, the Eleventh Circuit vacated its decision and substituted a new opinion.  In November 2013, the Eleventh Circuit denied R.J. Reynolds  initial petition for rehearing.  R.J. Reynolds filed a petition for rehearing   en banc   or panel rehearing of the  

substituted decision, which was denied in January 2014.  In March 2014, R.J. Reynolds filed petitions for   writ of certiorari   to the United States Supreme Court in the   Walker   and   Duke   cases, as well as in   J. Brown  .  Defendants filed petitions for   writ of certiorari   in eight other   Engle   progeny cases that were tried in Florida state courts, including one case,   Barbanell  , in which PM USA is the defendant.  In these eight petitions, defendants asserted questions similar to those in   Walker  ,   Duke   and   J. Brown  .  In June 2014, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petitions for   writ of certiorari   in all 11 cases. 
  In   Graham  , an   Engle   progeny case against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds on appeal to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, defendants argued that the   Engle   progeny plaintiffs  product liability claims are impliedly preempted by federal law.  Oral argument was heard on November 20, 2014.  
  In   Soffer  , an   Engle   progeny case against R.J. Reynolds, the Florida First District Court of Appeal held that   Engle   progeny plaintiffs can recover punitive damages only on their intentional tort claims.  In February 2014, the Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction over plaintiff s appeal from the Florida First District Court of Appeal s holding and heard oral argument on December 4, 2014. 
  In   Ciccone  , an   Engle   progeny case against R.J. Reynolds, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal held that   Engle   progeny plaintiffs could establish class membership by showing that they developed symptoms during the   Engle   class period that could, in hindsight, be attributed to their smoking-related disease.  The court certified a conflict with   Castleman  , a Florida First District Court of Appeal decision, which held that manifestation requires   Engle   progeny plaintiffs to have been aware during the class period that they had a disease caused by smoking in order to establish class membership.  The Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction in the   Ciccone   case in June 2014 and heard oral argument on December 4, 2014. 
     Florida Bond Statute:    In June 2009, Florida amended its existing bond cap statute by adding a   $200 million   bond cap that applies to all state   Engle   progeny lawsuits in the aggregate and establishes individual bond caps for individual   Engle   progeny cases in amounts that vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.  Plaintiffs in three state   Engle   progeny cases against R.J. Reynolds in Alachua County, Florida (  Alexander  ,   Townsend   and   Hall  ) and one case in Escambia County (  Clay  ) challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap statute.  The Florida Attorney General intervened in these cases in defense of the constitutionality of the statute. 
  Trial court rulings were rendered in   Clay  ,   Alexander  ,   Townsend   and   Hall   rejecting the plaintiffs  bond cap statute challenges in those cases.  The plaintiffs unsuccessfully appealed these rulings.  In   Alexander  ,   Clay   and   Hall  , the District Court of Appeal for the First District of Florida affirmed the trial court decisions and certified the decision in   Hall   for appeal to the Florida Supreme Court, but declined to  

79 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     certify the question of the constitutionality of the bond cap statute in   Clay   and   Alexander  .  The Florida Supreme Court granted review of the   Hall   decision, but, in September 2012, the court dismissed the appeal as moot.  In October 2012, the Florida Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs  rehearing petition.  In August 2013, in   Calloway  , discussed further below, plaintiff filed a motion in the trial court to determine the sufficiency of the bond posted by defendants on the ground that the bond cap statute is unconstitutional, which was denied. 
  No federal court has yet addressed the constitutionality of the bond cap statute or the applicability of the bond cap to   Engle   progeny cases tried in federal court.  However, in April 2013, PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard filed a motion in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida to have the court apply the Florida bond cap statute to all federal   Engle   progeny cases.  In August 2013, the court denied the motion without prejudice on the grounds that it was premature to adjudicate such issue. 
    
  Other Smoking and Health Class Actions  
    
  Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts.  In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well.   
  Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in   59   smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (1), California (1), the District of Columbia (2), Florida (2), Illinois (3), Iowa (1), Kansas (1), Louisiana (1), Maryland (1), Michigan (1), Minnesota (1), Nevada (29), New Jersey (6), New York (2), Ohio (1), Oklahoma (1), Pennsylvania (1), Puerto Rico (1), South Carolina (1), Texas (1) and Wisconsin (1). 
  As of January 27, 2015, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are named as defendants, along with other cigarette manufacturers, in   seven   class actions filed in the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan, British Columbia and Ontario.  In Saskatchewan, British Columbia (two separate cases) and Ontario, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of individuals who suffer or have suffered from various diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, heart disease or cancer, after smoking defendants  cigarettes.  In the actions filed in Alberta, Manitoba and Nova Scotia, plaintiffs seek certification of classes of all individuals who smoked defendants  cigarettes.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products. 

Medical Monitoring Class Actions 
    
  In medical monitoring actions, plaintiffs seek to recover the cost for, or otherwise the implementation of, court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring purportedly on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT ( LDCT ) scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung cancer.  Plaintiffs in these cases do not seek punitive damages, although plaintiffs in   Donovan   have indicated they may seek to treble any damages awarded.  The future defense of these cases may be negatively impacted by evolving medical standards and practice. 
  One medical monitoring class action is currently pending against PM USA.  In   Donovan  , filed in December 2006 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, plaintiffs purportedly brought the action on behalf of the state s residents who are: age 50 or older; have smoked the   Marlboro   brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under investigation by a physician for suspected lung cancer.  The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in answering questions certified to it by the district court, held in October 2009 that under certain circumstances state law recognizes a claim by individual smokers for medical monitoring despite the absence of an actual injury.  The court also ruled that whether or not the case is barred by the applicable statute of limitations is a factual issue to be determined by the trial court.  The case was remanded to federal court for further proceedings.  In June 2010, the district court granted in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification, certifying the class as to plaintiffs  claims for breach of implied warranty and violation of the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Act, but denying certification as to plaintiffs  negligence claim.  In July 2010, PM USA petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit for appellate review of the class certification decision.  The petition was denied in September 2010.  As a remedy, plaintiffs have proposed a 28-year medical monitoring program with an approximate cost of   $190 million  .  In June 2011, plaintiffs filed various motions for partial summary judgment and to strike affirmative defenses, which the district court denied in March 2012 without prejudice.  In October 2011, PM USA filed a motion for class decertification, which motion was denied in March 2012.  In February 2013, the district court amended the class definition to extend to individuals who satisfy the class membership criteria through February 26, 2013, and to exclude any individual who was not a Massachusetts resident as of February 26, 2013.  In January 2014, plaintiffs renewed their previously filed motions for partial summary judgment and to strike affirmative defenses.  In December 2014, the court issued its rulings on plaintiffs  previously-filed motions, granting and denying the motions in part.  A trial date has not been set. 

80 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Other medical monitoring cases previously brought against PM USA include   Caronia  , filed in January 2006 in the U.S. district court for the Eastern District of New York.  In January 2011, the district court dismissed plaintiffs  implied warranty and medical monitoring claims and declared plaintiffs  motion for class certification moot in light of the dismissal of the case.  The plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  In May 2013, the Second Circuit affirmed the dismissal of plaintiffs  traditional negligence, strict liability and breach of warranty claims on the grounds of statute of limitations and the widespread knowledge regarding the risks of cigarette smoking, but certified certain questions to the New York State Court of Appeals, including whether New York would recognize an independent claim for medical monitoring.  In May 2013, the New York Court of Appeals accepted the certified questions and, in December 2013, ruled that New York law does not allow for an independent cause of action for medical monitoring.  The Second Circuit affirmed the district court s dismissal of the entire case in April 2014, including the so-called independent claim for medical monitoring, and issued its mandate in May 2014.  Two other cases (California (  Xavier  ) and Florida (  Gargano  )) were dismissed in 2011. 
    
  Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation 
    
     Overview:    In the health care cost recovery litigation, governmental entities seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages.  Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.  
  The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.  
  Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit and statutes of limitations.  In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs  

benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise.  Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment.  Under traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured party.  Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.  
  Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial decisions in the United States have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers.  Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and eight state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions.  The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.  In 2011, in the health care cost recovery case brought against PM USA and other defendants by the City of St. Louis, Missouri and approximately 40 Missouri hospitals, a verdict was returned in favor of defendants.  
  Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private attorneys general under the Medicare as Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act to recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases.  Cases were brought in New York (2), Florida (2) and Massachusetts (1).  All were dismissed by federal courts. 
  In addition to the cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., in Israel (dismissed), the Marshall Islands (dismissed) and Canada (9), and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions.       
  In September 2005, in the first of several health care cost recovery cases filed in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case, which had previously been dismissed by the trial court, was permitted to proceed.  PM USA s and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision.  In December 2009, the Court of Appeals of British Columbia ruled that certain defendants can proceed against the Federal Government of Canada as third parties on the theory that the Federal Government of Canada negligently misrepresented to defendants the efficacy of a low tar tobacco variety that the Federal Government of Canada developed and licensed to defendants.  In May 2010, the Supreme Court of Canada granted leave to the Federal Government of Canada to appeal this decision and leave to  

81 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     defendants to cross-appeal the Court of Appeals  decision to dismiss claims against the Federal Government of Canada based on other theories of liability.  In July 2011, the Supreme Court of Canada dismissed the third-party claims against the Federal Government of Canada.   
  Since the beginning of 2008, the Canadian Provinces of British Columbia, New Brunswick, Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, Quebec, Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Prince Edward Island have brought health care reimbursement claims against cigarette manufacturers.  PM USA is named as a defendant in the British Columbia and Quebec cases, while both Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants in the New Brunswick, Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Prince Edward Island cases.  The Province of Nova Scotia and the territory of Nunavut have enacted similar legislation or are in the process of enacting similar legislation.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products. 
     Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:    In   November 1998  , PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously entered into agreements to settle similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). The State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers make annual payments of approximately   $9.4 billion  , subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume. In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to an annual cap of   $500 million  . For the years ended December 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, the aggregate amount recorded in cost of sales with respect to the State Settlement Agreements and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was approximately   $4.6 billion  ,   $4.2 billion   and   $4.9 billion  , respectively.  The 2014 and 2013 amounts include a reduction to cost of sales of approximately   $43 million   and   $664 million  , respectively, related to the NPM Adjustment disputes discussed below.  
  The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions. 
     NPM Adjustment Disputes:    PM USA is participating in proceedings regarding potential downward adjustments (the  NPM Adjustment ) to MSA payments made by manufacturers that are signatories to the MSA (the  participating manufacturers  or  PMs ) for 2003-2012.  The  

NPM Adjustment is a reduction in MSA payments that applies if the PMs collectively lose at least a specified level of market share to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) between 1997 and the year at issue, subject to certain conditions and defenses.  The independent auditor appointed under the MSA calculates the maximum amount, if any, of the NPM Adjustment for any year in respect of which such NPM Adjustment is potentially applicable. 
    
  2003-2012 NPM Adjustment Disputes - Settlement with 24 States and Territories  :      PM USA has settled the NPM Adjustment disputes for the years 2003-2012 with   24   of the 52 MSA states and territories (the   24   states and territories are referred to as the  signatory states,  and the remaining MSA states and territories are referred to as the  non-signatory states ).  Pursuant to the settlement, PM USA expects to receive a total of at least   $599 million   for 2003-2012.  Of this total, PM USA has already received   $579 million   in the form of reductions to its MSA payments in 2013 or 2014 and expects to receive the remaining   $20 million   as a reduction to its MSA payment due in April 2015. 
  PM USA recorded   $519 million   of the   $599 million   as a reduction to cost of sales that increased its reported pre-tax earnings by   $483 million   and   $36 million   in the first quarter of 2013 and second quarter of 2013, respectively.  The remainder of the   $599 million   consists of   $80 million   attributable to two states that joined the settlement after having been found subject to the 2003 NPM Adjustment by an arbitration panel in the third quarter of 2013, as discussed below.  As a result of the arbitration panel s findings, however, PM USA had already recorded   $54 million   in pre-tax earnings in respect of those two states for the 2003 NPM Adjustment before they joined the settlement, leaving an additional   $26 million   to be recorded when they joined the settlement. The   $54 million   already recorded consisted of   $37 million   recorded as a reduction to cost of sales and   $17 million   recorded as interest income.  Because the   $80 million   settlement recovery would all be recorded as a reduction to cost of sales, upon these two states  joinder of the settlement in the second quarter of 2014,  a further   $43 million   reduction to cost of sales while also recording a   $17 million   reduction in interest income to reverse the earlier recording of interest income in that amount.  The result was a net increase in reported pre-tax earnings of   $26 million   in the second quarter of 2014. 
  In addition, the settlement provides that the NPM Adjustment provision will be revised and streamlined as to the signatory states for the years after 2012.  Under the revised provision, the 2013 and 2014 NPM Adjustments are  transition years,  for which the PMs receive specified payments.  PM USA has already received   $35 million   for the 2013 transition year pursuant to this revised provision in the form of a reduction to its MSA payments in 2014, resulting in a reduction to cost of sales in the first quarter of 2014.  PM USA also expects to receive an additional   $3 million   for the 2013 transition year as a result of the two additional states  

82 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     joining the settlement in the form of a reduction to its MSA payment due in April 2015.  PM USA will also receive a payment for the 2014 transition year, in an amount subsequently to be calculated, in the form of a reduction to its MSA payment due in April 2015.  PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard (the  original participating manufacturers  or  OPMs ) have agreed that the amounts they receive under the settlement for the transition years and subsequent years will be allocated among them pursuant to a formula that modifies the MSA allocation formula in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments. 
  Many of the non-signatory states objected to the settlement before the arbitration panel hearing the 2003 NPM Adjustment dispute.  In March 2013, the panel issued a stipulated partial settlement and award (the  Stipulated Award ) rejecting the objections and permitting the settlement to proceed.  Fourteen of the non-signatory states filed motions in their state courts to vacate and/or modify the Stipulated Award in whole or part.  Decisions by the Pennsylvania, Missouri and Maryland courts on such motions, and the subsequent appeals of those rulings, are discussed below.  One state s motion was denied without an appeal by the state.  Another state s motions remain pending in its state trial court.  As for the remaining states, rulings rejecting their motions to vacate the Stipulated Award are on appeal by the respective states, or the motions have been voluntarily dismissed or stayed pending further state action.  
    
  2003-2013 NPM Adjustment Disputes - Continuing Disputes with Non-Signatory States  :      PM USA has continued to pursue the NPM Adjustments for 2003 and subsequent years with respect to the non-signatory states.  Under the MSA, once all conditions for the NPM Adjustment for a particular year are met, each state may avoid an NPM Adjustment to its share of the PMs  MSA payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying escrow statute during the entirety of that year.  Such a state s share of the NPM Adjustment would then be reallocated to any states that are found not to have diligently enforced for that year.  For 2003-2012, all conditions for the NPM Adjustment have been met, either by determination or agreement among the parties.  For 2013, one condition (that the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor  contributing to the PMs  collective loss of market share) potentially remains in dispute; however, proceedings as to the  significant factor  issue for 2013 cannot be commenced until April 2015. 
    
  2003 NPM Adjustment  .  With one exception (Montana), the courts have ruled that the states  claims of diligent enforcement are to be submitted to arbitration.  PM USA and other PMs entered into an agreement with most of the MSA states and territories concerning the 2003 NPM Adjustment, under which such states and territories would receive a partial liability reduction of   20%   for the 2003 NPM Adjustment in the event the arbitration panel determined that they did not  

diligently enforce during 2003.  The Montana state courts ruled that Montana may litigate its diligent enforcement claims in state court, rather than in arbitration.  In June 2012, the PMs  and Montana entered a consent decree pursuant to which Montana would not be subject to the 2003 NPM Adjustment. 
  The 2003 arbitration was conducted from July 2010 to September 2013.  Following discovery, the PMs determined no longer to contest the 2003 diligent enforcement claims of   14   of the non-signatory states in the arbitration.  In the Stipulated Award, the arbitration panel ruled that the total 2003 NPM Adjustment would be reduced pro rata by the aggregate allocable share of the signatory states (at the relevant time, approximately   46%  ) to determine the maximum amount of the 2003 NPM Adjustment potentially available from the non-signatory states whose diligent enforcement claims the PMs continued to contest (the  pro rata judgment reduction ). 
  In September 2013, the arbitration panel issued rulings regarding the   15   contested states and territories that had not as of that time joined the settlement, ruling that   six   of them (Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Mexico and Pennsylvania) did not diligently enforce during 2003 and that   nine   of them did.  Based on this ruling, the PMs are entitled to receive from the   six   non-diligent states the entire 2003 NPM Adjustment remaining after the pro rata judgment reduction.  PM USA believes it is entitled to receive an NPM Adjustment for 2003 based on this ruling, after reflecting the   20%   partial liability reduction noted above, of approximately   $145 million  . PM USA recorded this   $145 million   as a reduction to cost of sales, which increased its reported pre-tax earnings in the third quarter of 2013.  In addition PM USA believes it would be entitled to interest on this amount of approximately   $89 million  .  PM USA recorded   $64 million   of this amount as interest income, which reduced interest and other debt expense, net in the first quarter of 2014, but did not yet record the remaining   $25 million   based on its assessment of a certain dispute concerning interest discussed below. 
  After PM USA recorded these amounts,   two   of the   six   non-diligent states (Indiana and Kentucky) joined the settlement and became signatory states.  Those   two   states account for (i)   $37 million   of the   $145 million   NPM Adjustment for 2003 that PM USA recorded and (ii)   $17 million   of the interest that PM USA recorded.  PM USA will retain those amounts from the   two   states, plus receive additional amounts as part of the settlement recoveries for the 2003-2012 NPM Adjustment disputes described above.  The remaining   four   states account for approximately (i)   $108 million   of the   $145 million   2003 NPM Adjustment that PM USA recorded and (ii)   $66 million   of the   $89 million   of interest to which PM USA believes it would be entitled on the   $145 million   (and   $47 million   of the   $64 million   of interest that PM USA recorded).  Each of these   four   states has filed a motion in its state court to (i) vacate the panel s ruling as to its diligence and (ii) to modify the pro rata judgment reduction and to substitute a reduction method more favorable to the state.  These   four   states have also raised a dispute concerning the independent auditor s  

83 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     calculation of interest.  In addition, one of the other OPMs has raised a dispute concerning the allocation of the interest and disputed payments account earnings among the OPMs. 
  In April 2014, a Pennsylvania state trial court denied Pennsylvania s motion to vacate the arbitration panel s ruling that Pennsylvania had not diligently enforced, but granted Pennsylvania s motion to modify, with respect to Pennsylvania, the pro rata judgment reduction.  In May 2014, a Missouri state trial court ruled similarly on Missouri s motions.  In July 2014, a Maryland state trial court denied both Maryland s motion to vacate the arbitration panel s ruling that Maryland had not diligently enforced and Maryland s motion to vacate or modify the pro rata judgment reduction.  PM USA is appealing the Pennsylvania and Missouri decisions modifying the pro rata judgment reduction.  Maryland is appealing its court s decision declining to modify the pro rata judgment reduction.  Maryland and Missouri each is appealing its court s ruling denying its motion to vacate the arbitration panel s diligence ruling as to that state.  The motions filed by the fourth state, New Mexico, remain pending in its state trial court. 
  As a result of the Pennsylvania state trial court ruling, the total 2014 MSA payment credit PM USA received on account of the 2003 NPM Adjustment from the   four   states was reduced from   $108 million   to   $79 million  , and the interest PM USA received from the   four   states was   $48 million   rather than the   $66 million   in interest to which PM USA believes it would be entitled from those   four   states.  If PM USA is successful in judicial review of the Pennsylvania trial court ruling, it will recover the difference (  $29 million   of 2003 NPM Adjustment and   $18 million   in interest (subject to the separate interest disputes referenced above)), with interest, as a credit against a subsequent MSA payment.  If PM USA is not successful on judicial review of the Pennsylvania trial court ruling, it would need to reverse   $29 million   of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and part of the interest that it recorded.  Because the Missouri state trial court ruling post-dated PM USA s April 2014 MSA payment, that ruling did not reduce the credit that PM USA received against that payment.  If PM USA is not successful on judicial review of the Missouri court s ruling, it will be required to return approximately   $12 million   of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and   $7 million   of the interest it received (in each case subject to confirmation by the independent auditor), plus applicable interest, and would need to make corresponding reversals to amounts previously recorded.  In connection with the Missouri appeal, PM USA has posted a bond in the amount of   $22 million  .  In addition, the other litigation and disputes discussed above could further reduce PM USA s recovery on the 2003 NPM Adjustment or recovery of interest and potentially require PM USA to return amounts previously received and/or reverse amounts previously recorded.  No assurance can be given that PM USA s appeals of the Pennsylvania and Missouri state trial court rulings, or the other litigation and disputes discussed above, will be resolved in a manner favorable to PM USA. 

2004-2013 NPM Adjustments  .  Proceedings regarding state diligent enforcement claims for 2004-2013 have not yet been scheduled.  PM USA believes that the MSA requires these claims to be determined in a multi-state arbitration, although a number of non-signatory states have filed motions in their state courts contending that the claims are to be determined in separate arbitrations for individual states or that there is no arbitrable dispute for 2004.  No assurance can be given as to when proceedings for 2004-2013 will be scheduled or the precise form those proceedings will take. 
  The independent auditor has calculated that PM USA s share of the maximum potential NPM Adjustments for these years is (exclusive of interest or earnings):    $388 million   for 2004,   $181 million   for 2005,   $154 million   for 2006,   $185 million   for 2007,   $250 million   for 2008,   $211 million   for 2009,   $219 million   for 2010,   $165 million   for 2011,   $207 million   for 2012 and   $215 million   for 2013.  These maximum amounts will be reduced by a judgment reduction to reflect the settlement with the signatory states.  The judgment reduction method applicable to the 2004-2013 NPM Adjustments has not yet been determined.  In addition, these maximum amounts may also be further reduced by other developments, including agreements that may be entered in the future, disputes that may arise or recalculation of the NPM Adjustment amounts by the independent auditor.  Finally, PM USA s recovery of these amounts, even as reduced, is dependent upon subsequent determinations of non-signatory states  diligent enforcement claims.  The availability and amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2004-2013 from the non-signatory states will not be finally determined in the near term.  There is no assurance that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment from the non-signatory states as a result of these proceedings.  PM USA s receipt of amounts on account of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and interest from non-signatory states does not provide any assurance that PM USA will receive any NPM Adjustment amounts (or associated interest or earnings) for 2004 or any subsequent year. 
     Other Disputes Related to MSA Payments:    In addition to the disputed NPM Adjustments described above, MSA states and PMs, including PM USA, conducted another arbitration to resolve certain other disputes related to the calculation of the participating manufacturers  payments under the MSA.  PM USA disputed the method by which ounces of  roll your own  tobacco had been converted to cigarettes for purposes of calculating the downward volume adjustments to its MSA payments, but in February 2013, the arbitration panel issued a ruling in favor of the MSA states.  This same arbitration panel also issued a ruling in the dispute over whether the  adjusted gross  or the  net  number of cigarettes on which federal excise tax is paid is the correct methodology for calculating MSA payments due from certain subsequent participating manufacturers.  PM USA does not currently have access to the data necessary to determine the  

84 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     magnitude and the direction of the effects of this ruling on past and future MSA payments from such subsequent participating manufacturers.  
     Other MSA-Related Litigation:    Since the MSA s inception, NPMs and/or their distributors or customers have filed a number of challenges to the MSA and related legislation.  They have named as defendants the states and their officials, in an effort to enjoin enforcement of important parts of the MSA and related legislation, and/or participating manufacturers, in an effort to obtain damages.  To date, no such challenge has been successful, and the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Circuits have affirmed judgments in favor of defendants in   16   such cases.   
     Federal Government s Lawsuit:    In   1999  , the United States government filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including Altria Group, Inc., asserting claims under three federal statutes, namely the Medical Care Recovery Act ( MCRA ), the MSP provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO.  Trial of the case ended in June 2005.  The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.  The complaint alleged that such costs total more than   $20 billion   annually.  It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits that arose from defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by defendants, and a declaration that defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct.  In September 2000, the trial court dismissed the government s MCRA and MSP claims, but permitted discovery to proceed on the government s claims for relief under the civil provisions of RICO.  
  The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately   $280 billion   is an appropriate remedy and the trial court agreed.  In February 2005, however, a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO.  In October 2005, the United States Supreme Court denied the government s petition for   writ of certiorari  .  
  In   June 2005  , the government filed with the trial court its proposed final judgment seeking remedies of approximately   $14 billion  , including   $10 billion   over a five-year period to fund a national smoking cessation program and   $4 billion   over a 10-year period to fund a public education and counter-marketing campaign.  Further, the government s proposed remedy would have required defendants to pay additional  

monies to these programs if targeted reductions in the smoking rate of those under 21 were not achieved according to a prescribed timetable.  The government s proposed remedies also included a series of measures and restrictions applicable to cigarette business operations, including, but not limited to, restrictions on advertising and marketing, potential measures with respect to certain price promotional activities and research and development, disclosure requirements for certain confidential data and implementation of a monitoring system with potential broad powers over cigarette operations.  
  In   August 2006  , the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the government.  The court held that certain defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in seven of the eight  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged.  Specifically, the court found that:  

defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;  

defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;  

defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;  

defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;  

defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;  

defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and  

defendants suppressed scientific research. 
       
  The court did not impose monetary penalties on defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against  committing any act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes  (iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message through use of descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising  

85 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     or promotional material, including  lights,   ultra lights  and  low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe one cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) for a period of 10 years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs in bringing the action.  
  Defendants appealed and, in May 2009, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a   per curiam   decision largely affirming the trial court s judgment against defendants and in favor of the government. Although the panel largely affirmed the remedial order that was issued by the trial court, it vacated the following aspects of the order:  

its application to defendants  subsidiaries;  

the prohibition on the use of express or implied health messages or health descriptors, but only to the extent of extraterritorial application;  

its point-of-sale display provisions; and  

its application to Brown   Williamson Holdings.  
       
  The Court of Appeals panel remanded the case for the trial court to reconsider these four aspects of the injunction and to reformulate its remedial order accordingly.  Furthermore, the Court of Appeals panel rejected all of the government s and intervenors  cross-appeal arguments and refused to broaden the remedial order entered by the trial court.  The Court of Appeals panel also left undisturbed its prior holding that the government cannot obtain disgorgement as a permissible remedy under RICO. 
  In July 2009, defendants filed petitions for a rehearing before the panel and for a rehearing by the entire Court of Appeals.  Defendants also filed a motion to vacate portions of the trial court s judgment on the grounds of mootness because  

of the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ), granting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) broad authority over the regulation of tobacco products.  In September 2009, the Court of Appeals entered three   per curiam   rulings.  Two of them denied defendants  petitions for panel rehearing or for rehearing   en banc  .      In the third   per curiam   decision, the Court of Appeals denied defendants  suggestion of mootness and motion for partial   vacatur  .  In February 2010, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. filed their   certiorari   petitions with the United States Supreme Court.  In addition, the federal government and the intervenors filed their own   certiorari   petitions, asking the court to reverse an earlier Court of Appeals decision and hold that civil RICO allows the trial court to order disgorgement as well as other equitable relief, such as smoking cessation remedies, designed to redress continuing consequences of prior RICO violations.  In June 2010, the United States Supreme Court denied all of the parties  petitions.  In July 2010, the Court of Appeals issued its mandate lifting the stay of the trial court s judgment and remanding the case to the trial court.  As a result of the mandate, except for those matters remanded to the trial court for further proceedings, defendants are now subject to the injunction discussed above and the other elements of the trial court s judgment. 
  In February 2011, the government submitted its proposed corrective statements and the trial court referred issues relating to a document repository to a special master.  Defendants filed a response to the government s proposed corrective statements and filed a motion to vacate the trial court s injunction in light of the FSPTCA, which motion was denied in June 2011.  Defendants appealed the trial court s ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  In July 2012, the Court of Appeals affirmed the district court s denial of defendants  motion to vacate the district court s injunction. 
  Remaining issues pending include:  (i) the content of the court-ordered corrective communications and (ii) the requirements related to point-of-sale signage.  In November 2012, the district court issued its order specifying the content of the corrective communications described above.  The district court s order required the parties to engage in negotiations with the special master regarding implementation of the corrective communications remedy for television, newspapers, cigarette pack onserts and websites.  In January 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal from the order on the content and vehicles of the corrective communications and a motion to hold the appeal in abeyance pending completion of the negotiations, which the U.S. Court of Appeals granted in February 2013. In January 2014, the parties submitted a motion for entry of a consent order in the district court, setting forth their agreement on the implementation details of the corrective communications remedy.  The agreement provides that the  trigger date  for implementation is after the appeal on the content of the communications has been exhausted.  Also in January 2014,  

86 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     the district court convened a hearing and ordered further briefing.  A number of   amici   who sought modification or rejection of the agreement for a variety of reasons were given leave to appear: National Newspaper Publishers Association, National Association of Black Owned Broadcasters, Inc., National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, The Little Rock Sun Community Newspaper, Turner Broadcasting System, Inc., The CW Network, LLC, Univision Communications Inc., Radio One, Inc., TV One, LLC, Interactive One, LLC, Fox Broadcasting Company, Viacom Inc. and A E Television Networks, LLC.  In April 2014, the parties filed an amended proposed consent order and accompanying submission in the district court seeking entry of a revised agreement on the implementation details of the corrective communications remedy.  In June 2014, the district court approved the April 2014 proposed consent order.  Also in June 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal of the consent order solely for the purpose of perfecting the U.S. Court of Appeals  jurisdiction over the pending appeal relating to the content and vehicles of the corrective communications and, in July 2014, defendants moved to consolidate this appeal with the appeal filed in January 2013.  The U.S. Court of Appeals granted the motion to consolidate in August 2014.  Oral argument is scheduled for February 23, 2015.   
  In the second quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA recorded provisions on each of their respective balance sheets totaling   $31 million   for the estimated costs of implementing the corrective communications remedy.  This estimate is subject to change due to several factors, including the outcome of the appeal on the content of the corrective communications, though Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA do not expect any change in this estimate to be material. 
  The consent order approved by the district court in June 2014 did not address the requirements related to point-of-sale signage.  In May 2014, the district court ordered further briefing by the parties on the issue of corrective statements on point-of-sale signage, which was completed in June 2014. 
  In   December 2011  , the parties to the lawsuit entered into an agreement as to the issues concerning the document repository.  Pursuant to this agreement, PM USA agreed to deposit an amount of approximately   $3.1 million   into the district court in installments over a   five  -year period. 
    
   Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases 
    
     Overview:    Plaintiffs in certain pending matters seek certification of their cases as class actions and allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law or statutory fraud, unjust enrichment or breach of warranty, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages.  These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various  

brands of cigarettes, including   Marlboro   Lights,   Marlboro   Ultra Lights,   Virginia Slims   Lights and Superslims,   Merit   Lights and   Cambridge   Lights. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury and damages, the statute of limitations, non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment.  As of   January 27, 2015  , a total of   12   such cases are pending in various U.S. state courts.  
  In   El-Roy  , a purported  Lights  class action in Israel, the trial court denied the plaintiffs  motion for class certification and ordered the plaintiffs to pay defendants approximately   $100,000   in attorneys  fees.  Plaintiffs in that case noticed an appeal.  Oral argument at the Israel Supreme Court occurred on November 17, 2014, and the same day plaintiffs agreed to accept judgment against them in return for trial costs.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products. 
     The   Good   Case:    In May 2006, a federal trial court in Maine granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment in   Good  , a purported  Lights  class action, on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims are preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act ( FCLAA ) and dismissed the case.  In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs  claims are not barred by federal preemption.  Although the Court rejected the argument that the FTC s actions were so extensive with respect to the descriptors that the state law claims were barred as a matter of federal law, the Court s decision was limited: it did not address the ultimate merits of plaintiffs  claim, the viability of the action as a class action or other state law issues. The case was returned to the federal court in Maine and consolidated with other federal cases in the multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below.  In June 2011, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the case without prejudice after the district court denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification, concluding the litigation. 
     Federal Multidistrict Proceeding and Subsequent Developments:    Since the December 2008 United States Supreme Court decision in   Good  , and through January 27, 2015,   26   purported  Lights  class actions were served upon PM USA and, in certain cases, Altria Group, Inc.  These cases were filed in 15 states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia.  All of these cases either were filed in federal court or were removed to federal court by PM USA and were transferred and consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ( JPMDL ) before the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine for pretrial proceedings ( MDL proceeding ).  
  In November 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification in   four   cases, covering the jurisdictions of California, the District of Columbia, Illinois and Maine.  These jurisdictions  

87 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     were selected by the parties as sample cases, with two selected by plaintiffs and two selected by defendants.  Plaintiffs sought appellate review of this decision but, in February 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit denied plaintiffs  petition for leave to appeal.  Later that year, plaintiffs in   13   cases voluntarily dismissed without prejudice their cases.  In April 2012, the JPMDL remanded the remaining four cases (  Phillips  ,   Tang  ,   Wyatt   and   Cabbat  ) back to the federal district courts in which the suits originated.  These cases were ultimately resolved in a manner favorable to PM USA.   
  In   Tang  , which was pending in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the case without prejudice in July 2012, concluding the litigation.  In   Phillips  , which was pending in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, following the district court s denial of class certification, PM USA made an offer of judgment to resolve the case for   $6,000  , which plaintiff accepted, and the court dismissed the case.  In   Cabbat  , the U.S. District Court for the District of Hawaii denied plaintiffs  class certification motion in January 2014.  After plaintiffs were unsuccessful in obtaining appellate review, in July 2014, the parties filed, and the court approved, a stipulation for dismissal with prejudice.  In   Wyatt  , the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Wisconsin denied plaintiffs  class certification motion in August 2013.  After plaintiffs were unsuccessful in obtaining appellate review, PM USA made an offer of judgment to resolve the case for   $1,000  , which plaintiff accepted in September 2014.  The district court dismissed the case in October 2014. 
      Lights  Cases Dismissed, Not Certified or Ordered De-Certified:    As of January 27, 2015, in addition to the federal district court in the MDL proceeding, 18 courts in   19    Lights  cases have refused to certify class actions, dismissed class action allegations, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA.  
  Trial courts in Arizona, Hawaii, Illinois, Kansas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Tennessee, Washington and Wisconsin have refused to grant class certification or have dismissed plaintiffs  class action allegations.  Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a case in Michigan after a trial court dismissed the claims plaintiffs asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act. 
  Several appellate courts have issued rulings that either affirmed rulings in favor of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA or reversed rulings entered in favor of plaintiffs.  In Florida, an intermediate appellate court overturned an order by a trial court that granted class certification in   Hines.    The Florida Supreme Court denied review in January 2008.  The Supreme Court of Illinois overturned a judgment that awarded damages to a certified class in the   Price   case.  See   The Price Case   below for further discussion.  In Louisiana, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed a purported  Lights  class action (  Sullivan  ) on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the FCLAA.  In New York, the  

U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned a trial court decision in   Schwab   that granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all U.S. residents that purchased cigarettes in the United States that were labeled  Light  or  Lights.  In July 2010, plaintiffs in   Schwab   voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice.  In Ohio, the Ohio Supreme Court overturned class certifications in the   Marrone   and   Phillips   cases.  Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed without prejudice both cases in August 2009, but refiled in federal court as the   Phillips   case discussed above.  The Supreme Court of Washington denied a motion for interlocutory review filed by the plaintiffs in the   Davies   case that sought review of an order by the trial court that refused to certify a class.  Plaintiffs subsequently voluntarily dismissed the   Davies   case with prejudice.  In August 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed the Illinois federal district court s dismissal of  Lights  claims brought against PM USA in the   Cleary   case.  In   Curtis  , a certified class action, in May 2012, the Minnesota Supreme Court affirmed the trial court s entry of summary judgment in favor of PM USA, concluding this litigation.  
  In   Lawrence  , in August 2012, the New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed the trial court s order to certify a class and subsequently denied plaintiffs  rehearing petition.  In October 2012, the case was dismissed after plaintiffs filed a motion to dismiss the case with prejudice, concluding this litigation.   
        State Trial Court Class Certifications:    State trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in several jurisdictions.  Over time, several such cases have been dismissed by the courts at the summary judgment stage.  Certified class actions remain pending at the trial or appellate level in California (  Brown  ), Massachusetts (  Aspinall  ), Missouri (  Larsen  ) and Arkansas (  Miner  ).  Significant developments in these cases include:  
    
  Aspinall  : In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order.  In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment and granted plaintiffs  cross-motion for summary judgment on the defenses of federal preemption and a state law exemption to Massachusetts  consumer protection statute.  On motion of the parties, the trial court subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review and stayed further proceedings pending completion of the appellate review.  In March 2009, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the order denying summary judgment to PM USA and granting the plaintiffs  cross-motion.  In January 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to liability claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   described above).  In March 2012, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion. In February 2013, the trial court, upon agreement of the parties, dismissed without  

88 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     prejudice plaintiffs  claims against Altria Group, Inc.  PM USA is now the sole defendant in the case.  In September 2013, the case was transferred to the Business Litigation Session of the Massachusetts Superior Court.  Also in September 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment on the scope of remedies available in the case, which the Massachusetts Superior Court denied in February 2014, concluding that plaintiffs cannot obtain disgorgement of profits as an equitable remedy and that their recovery is limited to actual damages or   $25   per class member if they cannot prove actual damages greater than   $25  .  Plaintiffs filed a motion asking the trial court to report its February 2014 ruling to the Massachusetts Appeals Court for review, which the trial court denied.  In March 2014, plaintiffs petitioned the Massachusetts Appeals Court for review of the ruling, which the appellate court denied.  Trial is scheduled to begin October 19, 2015. 
    
  Brown  :  In June 1997, plaintiffs filed suit in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, violated California law regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices.  In May 2009, the California Supreme Court reversed an earlier trial court decision that decertified the class and remanded the case to the trial court.  At that time, the class consisted of individuals who, at the time they were residents of California, (i) smoked in California one or more cigarettes manufactured by PM USA that were labeled and/or advertised with the terms or phrases  light,   medium,   mild,   low tar,  and/or  lowered tar and nicotine,  but not including any cigarettes labeled or advertised with the terms or phrases  ultra light  or  ultra low tar,  and (ii) who were exposed to defendant s marketing and advertising activities in California.  Plaintiffs are seeking restitution of a portion of the costs of  light  cigarettes purchased during the class period and injunctive relief ordering corrective communications.  In September 2012, at the plaintiffs  request, the trial court dismissed all defendants except PM USA from the lawsuit.  Trial began in April 2013.  In May 2013 the plaintiffs redefined the class to include California residents who smoked in California one or more of defendant s   Marlboro   Lights cigarettes between January 1, 1998 and April 23, 2001, and who were exposed to defendant s marketing and advertising activities in California.  In June 2013, PM USA filed a motion to decertify the class.  Trial concluded in July 2013.  In September 2013, the court issued a final Statement of Decision, in which the court found that PM USA violated California law, but that plaintiffs had not established a basis for relief.  On this basis, the court granted judgment for PM USA.   The court also denied PM USA s motion to decertify the class.  In October 2013, the court entered final judgment in favor of PM USA.  In November 2013, plaintiffs moved for a new trial, which the court denied.  In December 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal and PM USA filed a conditional cross-appeal.  In February 2014, the trial court  

awarded PM USA   $764,553   in costs.  Also in February 2014, plaintiffs appealed the costs award. 
    
  Larsen  :  In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order.  In December 2009, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the period during which potential class members can qualify to become part of the class.  The class period remains 1995-2003.  In June 2010, PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment regarding plaintiffs  request for punitive damages was denied.  In April 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to an element of liability in the case, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   described above).  The plaintiffs  motion was denied in December 2010.  In June 2011, PM USA filed various summary judgment motions challenging the plaintiffs  claims.  In August 2011, the trial court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment, ruling that plaintiffs could not present a damages claim based on allegations that   Marlboro   Lights are more dangerous than   Marlboro   Reds.  The trial court denied PM USA s remaining summary judgment motions.  Trial in the case began in September 2011 and, in October 2011, the court declared a mistrial after the jury failed to reach a verdict.  In January 2014, the trial court reversed its prior ruling granting partial summary judgment against plaintiffs   more dangerous  claim and allowed plaintiffs to pursue that claim.  In October 2014, PM USA filed motions to decertify the class and for partial summary judgment on plaintiffs   more dangerous  claim.  A trial date has not been set. 
    
  Miner  :      In June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings in   Miner   (formerly known as   Watson  ) that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court.  The Supreme Court rejected defendants  contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute.  Following remand, the case was removed again to federal court in Arkansas and transferred to the MDL proceeding discussed above.  In November 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding remanded the case to Arkansas state court.  In December 2011, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against Altria Group, Inc. without prejudice.  In March 2013, plaintiffs filed a class certification motion.  In November 2013, the trial court granted class certification.  The certified class includes those individuals who, from November 1, 1971 through June 22, 2010, purchased   Marlbor  o Lights, including   Marlboro   Ultra Lights, for personal consumption in Arkansas.  PM USA filed a notice of appeal of the class certification ruling to the Arkansas Supreme Court in December 2013.  Oral argument is scheduled for February 12, 2015.  

89 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

        Other Developments:    In Oregon (  Pearson  ), a state court denied plaintiffs  motion for interlocutory review of the trial court s refusal to certify a class.  In February 2007, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption.  In September 2007, the district court granted PM USA s motion based on express preemption under the FCLAA, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal and the class certification denial to the Oregon Court of Appeals.  Argument was held in April 2010.  In June 2013, the Oregon Court of Appeals reversed the trial court s denial of class certification and remanded to the trial court for further consideration of class certification. In July 2013, PM USA filed a petition for reconsideration with the Oregon Court of Appeals, which was denied in August 2013.  PM USA filed its petition for review to the Oregon Supreme Court in October 2013, which the court accepted in January 2014.  Oral argument occurred in June 2014. 
  In December 2009, the state trial court in   Carroll   (formerly known as   Holmes  ) (pending in Delaware) denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on an exemption provision in the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.  In January 2011, the trial court allowed the plaintiffs to file an amended complaint substituting class representatives and naming Altria Group, Inc. and PMI as additional defendants.  In February 2013, the trial court approved the parties  stipulation to the dismissal without prejudice of Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, leaving PM USA as the sole defendant in the case. 
     The Price Case:    Trial in   Price   commenced in state court in Illinois in January 2003 and, in   March 2003  , the judge found in favor of the plaintiff class and awarded   $7.1 billion   in compensatory damages and   $3.0 billion   in punitive damages against PM USA. In December 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial court s judgment in favor of the plaintiffs.  In November 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for   writ of certiorari   and, in   December 2006  , the Circuit Court of Madison County enforced the Illinois Supreme Court s mandate and dismissed the case with prejudice. 
  In December 2008, plaintiffs filed with the trial court a petition for relief from the final judgment that was entered in favor of PM USA.  Specifically, plaintiffs sought to vacate the judgment entered by the trial court on remand from the 2005 Illinois Supreme Court decision overturning the verdict on the ground that the United States Supreme Court s December 2008 decision in   Good   demonstrated that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision was  inaccurate.  PM USA filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  petition and, in February 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion on the basis that the petition was not timely filed.  In March 2009, the   Price   plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial District of the Appellate Court of Illinois.  In February 2011, the intermediate appellate court ruled that the petition was timely filed and reversed the trial court s dismissal of the plaintiffs  petition and, in September 2011, the Illinois  

Supreme Court declined PM USA s petition for review.  As a result, the case was returned to the trial court for proceedings on whether the court should grant the plaintiffs  petition to reopen the prior judgment.  In February 2012, plaintiffs filed an amended petition, which PM USA opposed.  Subsequently, in responding to PM USA s opposition to the amended petition, plaintiffs asked the trial court to reinstate the original judgment.  The trial court denied plaintiffs  petition in December 2012.  In January 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial District.  In January 2013, PM USA filed a motion asking the Illinois Supreme Court to immediately exercise its jurisdiction over the appeal.  In February 2013, the Illinois Supreme Court denied PM USA s motion.  Oral argument on plaintiffs  appeal to the Fifth Judicial District was heard in October 2013.      In April 2014, the Fifth Judicial District reversed and ordered reinstatement of the original $10.1 billion trial court judgment against PM USA.  In May 2014, PM USA filed in the Illinois Supreme Court a petition for a supervisory order and a petition for leave to appeal.  The filing of the petition for leave to appeal automatically stayed the Fifth District s mandate pending disposition by the Illinois Supreme Court.  Also in May 2014, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking recusal of Justice Karmeier, one of the Illinois Supreme Court justices, which PM USA opposed.  In September 2014, the Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for leave to appeal and took no action on PM USA s motion for a supervisory order.  Justice Karmeier denied plaintiffs  motion seeking his recusal. 
  In June 2009, the plaintiff in an individual smoker lawsuit (  Kelly  ) brought on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes in Madison County, Illinois state court filed a motion seeking a declaration that his claims under the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act are not (i) barred by the exemption in that statute based on his assertion that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision in   Price   is no longer good law in light of the decisions by the United States Supreme Court in   Good   and   Watson  , and (ii) preempted in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in   Good.    In September 2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion as to federal preemption, but denied it with respect to the state statutory exemption. 
    
  Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation 
    
     Tobacco Price Case:      One   case remains pending in Kansas (  Smith  ) in which plaintiffs allege that defendants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., conspired to fix cigarette prices in violation of antitrust laws.  Plaintiffs  motion for class certification was granted.  In March 2012, the trial court granted defendants  motions for summary judgment.  Plaintiffs sought the trial court s reconsideration of its decision, but in June 2012, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration.  Plaintiffs appealed the decision, and defendants cross-appealed the trial court s class certification decision, to the Court of Appeals of Kansas.  In July 2014, the Court of Appeals affirmed the entry of summary judgment in favor of defendants.  Plaintiffs filed a  

90 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     petition for review in the Kansas Supreme Court in August 2014. 
     Ignition Propensity Cases:   PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are currently facing litigation alleging that a fire caused by cigarettes led to individuals  deaths.  In a Kentucky case (  Walker  ), the federal district court denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court and dismissed plaintiffs  claims in February 2009.  Plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal.  In October 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the portion of the district court decision that denied remand of the case to Kentucky state court and remanded the case to Kentucky state court.  The Sixth Circuit did not address the merits of the district court s dismissal order.  Defendants  petition for rehearing with the Sixth Circuit was denied in December 2011.  Defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss in state court in March 2013.  Based on new evidence, in June 2013, defendants removed the case for a second time to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky and re-filed their motion to dismiss in June 2013.  In July 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the case to Kentucky state court, which was granted in March 2014. 
     False Claims Act Case:    PM USA is a defendant in a   qui tam   action filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (  United States ex rel. Anthony Oliver  ) alleging violation of the False Claims Act in connection with sales of cigarettes to the U.S. military.  The relator contends that PM USA violated  most favored customer  provisions in government contracts and regulations by selling cigarettes to non-military customers in overseas markets at more favorable prices than it sold to the U.S. military exchange services for resale on overseas military bases in those same markets.  The relator has dropped Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant and has dropped claims related to post-MSA price increases on cigarettes sold to the U.S. military.  In July 2012, PM USA filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted on jurisdictional grounds in June 2013, and the case was dismissed with prejudice.  In July 2013, the relator appealed the dismissal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  Oral argument occurred in May 2014.  In August 2014, the Court of Appeals reversed the jurisdictional issue and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings, including consideration of PM USA s alternative grounds for dismissal.  On October 28, 2014, PM USA filed a second motion to dismiss in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia for lack of subject matter jurisdiction based on issues left unresolved by the opinion of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 
     Argentine Grower Cases:    PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are named as defendants in   six   cases (  Hupan  ,   Chalanuk  ,   Rodriguez Da Silva, Aranda  ,   Taborda   and   Biglia  ) filed in Delaware state court against multiple defendants by the parents of Argentine children born with alleged birth defects.  Plaintiffs in these cases allege that they grew tobacco in  

Argentina under contract with Tabacos Norte S.A., an alleged subsidiary of PMI, and that they and their infant children were exposed directly and   in utero   to hazardous herbicides and pesticides used in the production and cultivation of tobacco.  Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages against all defendants.  In December 2012, Altria Group, Inc. and certain other defendants were dismissed from the   Hupan  ,   Chalanuk   and   Rodriguez Da Silva   cases.  Altria Group, Inc. and certain other defendants were dismissed from   Aranda  ,   Taborda   and   Biglia   in May 2013, October 2013 and February 2014, respectively.  The three remaining defendants in the six cases are PM USA, Philip Morris Global Brands Inc. (a subsidiary of PMI) and Monsanto Company.  Following discussions regarding indemnification for these cases pursuant to the Distribution Agreement between PMI and Altria Group, Inc.,     PMI and PM USA have agreed to resolve conflicting indemnity demands after final judgments are entered.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement.  In April 2014, all three defendants in the   Hupan   case filed motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim, and PM USA and Philip Morris Global Brands filed separate motions to dismiss based on the doctrine of   forum non conveniens  .  All proceedings in the other five cases are currently stayed pending the court s resolution of the motions to dismiss filed in   Hupan  . 
    
  UST Litigation 
    
  Claims related to smokeless tobacco products generally fall within the following categories:  
  First, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries have been named in certain actions in West Virginia (See   In re: Tobacco Litigation   above) brought by or on behalf of individual plaintiffs against cigarette manufacturers, smokeless tobacco manufacturers and other organizations seeking damages and other relief in connection with injuries allegedly sustained as a result of tobacco usage, including smokeless tobacco products.  Included among the plaintiffs are five individuals alleging use of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products and alleging the types of injuries claimed to be associated with the use of smokeless tobacco products. USSTC, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, has remained severed from such proceedings since December 2001.  
  Second, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in a number of other individual tobacco and health suits over time.  Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, such as negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of implied warranty, addiction and breach of consumer protection statutes.  Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, and certain equitable relief, including but not limited to disgorgement.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of causation, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, and statutes of limitations.  USSTC is currently named in one such action in  

91 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Florida (  Vassallo  ). In December 2014, the court entered a scheduling order setting trial to commence in the first quarter of 2016. 
    
  Environmental Regulation 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party.  Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations.   
  Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.  Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future.  In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows. 
  Guarantees and Other Similar Matters 
  In the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries (i) had   $66 million   of unused letters of credit obtained in the ordinary course of business; (ii) were contingently liable for   $32 million   of guarantees, consisting primarily of surety bonds, related to their own performance; and (iii) had a redeemable noncontrolling interest of   $35 million   recorded on  
  its consolidated balance sheet.  In addition, from time to time, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. issue lines of credit to  

affiliated entities.  These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity. 
  Under the terms of a distribution agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI (the  Distribution Agreement ), entered into as a result of Altria Group, Inc. s 2008 spin-off of its former subsidiary PMI, liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer.  PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI.  Altria Group, Inc. does not have a related liability recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at   December 31, 2014   as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant. 
  As more fully discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  , PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under the Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program. 
    
  Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest 
  In September 2007, Ste. Michelle completed the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars through one of its consolidated subsidiaries, Michelle-Antinori, LLC ( Michelle-Antinori ), in which Ste. Michelle holds an   85%   ownership interest with a   15%   noncontrolling interest held by Antinori California ( Antinori ).  In connection with the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars, Ste. Michelle entered into a put arrangement with Antinori.  The put arrangement, as later amended, provides Antinori with the right to require Ste. Michelle to purchase its 15% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori at a price equal to Antinori s initial investment of   $27 million  .  The put arrangement became exercisable in September 2010 and has no expiration date.  As of December 31, 2014, the redemption value of the put arrangement did not exceed the noncontrolling interest balance.  Therefore, no adjustment to the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was recognized on the consolidated balance sheet for the put arrangement. 
  The noncontrolling interest put arrangement is accounted for as mandatorily redeemable securities because redemption is outside of the control of Ste. Michelle.  As such, the redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported in the mezzanine equity section on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2014 and 2013.  

92 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Note 19  .  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information 
  PM USA, which is a 100% owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., has guaranteed Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program (the  Guarantees ).  Pursuant to the Guarantees, PM USA fully and unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor, the payment and performance of Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under the guaranteed debt instruments (the  Obligations ), subject to release under certain customary circumstances as noted below. 
  The Guarantees provide that PM USA guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the Obligations.  The liability of PM USA under the Guarantees is absolute and unconditional irrespective of: any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, Altria Group, Inc. or PM USA. 
  The obligations of PM USA under the Guarantees are limited to the maximum amount as will not result in PM USA s obligations under the Guarantees constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of PM USA that are relevant under Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Guarantees.  For this purpose,  Bankruptcy Law  means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. 
  PM USA will be unconditionally released and discharged from the Obligations upon the earliest to occur of: 
     the date, if any, on which PM USA consolidates with or merges into Altria Group, Inc. or any successor; 
     the date, if any, on which Altria Group, Inc. or any successor consolidates with or merges into PM USA; 
     the payment in full of the Obligations pertaining to such Guarantees; and 
     the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt by Standard   Poor s of A or higher. 
  At   December 31, 2014  , the respective principal 100% owned subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests. 
  The following sets forth the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , condensed consolidating statements of earnings and comprehensive earnings for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012  , and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows for the years ended   December 31, 2014  ,   2013   and   2012   for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. s other subsidiaries that are not guarantors of Altria Group, Inc. s debt instruments (the  Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries ).  The financial information is based on Altria Group, Inc. s understanding of the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) interpretation and application of Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X. 
  The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations or financial position had PM USA and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries operated as independent entities.  Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA account for investments in their subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting. 
      
  93 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________   

94 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________ 

95 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets  
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________ 

96 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________ 

97 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

98 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________   

99 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

100 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

101 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

102 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

103 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Note 20  .  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 

During   2014   and   2013  , the following pre-tax charges or (gains) were included in net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc.:   

  As discussed in   Note 14  .   Income Taxes  , Altria Group, Inc. has recognized income tax benefits and charges in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2014 and 2013 as a result of various tax events. 
      
  104 

       Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                 

To the Board of Directors and 
  Stockholders of Altria Group, Inc.: 
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2014 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, Altria Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Altria Group, Inc. s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable  

assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  Richmond, Virginia 
  January 30, 2015 

105 

       Table of Contents  

     Report of Management On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Management of Altria Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that: 
  n      pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Altria Group, Inc.; 
  n      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America; 
  n      provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of Altria Group, Inc. are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and directors of Altria Group, Inc.; and 
  n      provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 
  Internal control over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Management assessed the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2014  .  Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework   (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.  Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 
  Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, who audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Altria Group, Inc. included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, as stated in their report herein. 
    
  January 30, 2015 

106 

       Table of Contents  

     Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . 
  None. 
    
    Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  .  
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures    
  Altria Group, Inc. carried out an evaluation, with the participation of Altria Group, Inc. s management, including Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Based upon that evaluation, Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded  

that Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.  There have been no changes in Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting. 
  The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting are included in Item 8. 
    Item 9B. Other Information  .  
   None.  

Part III 
  Except for the information relating to the executive officers set forth in Item 10, the information called for by Items 10-14 is hereby incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 20, 2015 that will be filed with the SEC on or about April 9, 2015 (the  proxy statement ), and, except as indicated therein, made a part hereof.  
    
    Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  .  
  Refer to  Proposals Requiring Your Vote - Proposal 1 - Election of Directors,   Ownership of Equity Securities of the Company - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and  Board and Governance Matters - Committees of the Board of Directors  sections of the proxy statement.  
  Executive Officers as of February 13, 2015:  
                   Name 
    Office 
    Age 
      Martin J. Barrington 
    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer 
    61 
      David R. Beran 
    President and Chief Operating Officer 
    60 
      James E. Dillard III 
    Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Chief Innovation Officer, Altria Client Services Inc. 
    51 
      Ivan S. Feldman 
    Vice President and Controller 
    48 
      Clifford B. Fleet 
    President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip Morris USA Inc. 
    44 
      Michael B. French 
    Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, Altria Client Services Inc. 
    60 
      William F. Gifford, Jr. 
    Senior Vice President, Strategy and Business Development 
    44 
      Louanna O. Heuhsen 
    Vice President, Corporate Governance and Associate General Counsel 
    64 
      Craig A. Johnson 
    President and Chief Executive Officer, Altria Group Distribution Company 
    62 
      Denise F. Keane 
    Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
    62 
      Salvatore Mancuso 
    Treasurer and Senior Vice President, Investor Relations and Accounting 
    49 
      John R. Nelson 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer 
    62 
      Brian W. Quigley 
    President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC 
    41 
      W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr.  
    Corporate Secretary and Senior Assistant General Counsel 
    49 
      Charles N. Whitaker 
    Senior Vice President, Human Resources   Compliance and Chief Compliance Officer 
    48 
      Howard A. Willard III 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    51 

All of the above-mentioned officers have been employed by Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries in various capacities during the past five years, except for Mr. French, who joined Altria Client Services Inc. in 2012 after having served as Senior  

Vice President, Corporate Strategy at Brown Forman Corporation, one of the leading American-owned companies in the wine and spirits business, from March 2007 until May 2011.  From May  

107 

     Table of Contents  

     2011 until joining Altria Client Services Inc., Mr. French worked as a private marketing and strategy consultant.   
  On January 30, 2015, Altria Group, Inc. announced that Mr. Beran will retire as President and Chief Operating Officer effective March 1, 2015.  Altria Group, Inc. further announced that Mr. Willard will become Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Altria Group, Inc. and Mr. Gifford will become Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Altria Group, Inc. effective immediately upon Mr. Beran s retirement.   
  Effective March 1, 2015, Daniel J. Bryant will become Vice President and Treasurer of Altria Group, Inc. effective March 1, 2015.  Mr. Bryant, age 45, currently serves as Assistant Treasurer of Altria Group, Inc., a position he has held since November 2013.  Since 1995, he has been employed by Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries in various finance positions.  
  Effective March 1, 2015, Mr. Whitaker will become Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Compliance and Information Services and Chief Compliance Officer of Altria Group, Inc.  
  Effective March 1, 2015, Mr. Mancuso will become Senior Vice President, Strategy, Planning and Accounting of Altria Group, Inc.  
  Effective March 1, 2015, Mr. Barrington will become Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer and President of Altria Group, Inc. 
  Effective December 1, 2014, Mr. Dillard, Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs, Altria Client Services Inc. was appointed to the additional position of Chief Innovation Officer.  Mr. Dillard has held the position of Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs since 2009.  Prior to Altria Group, Inc. s acquisition of UST in 2009, Mr. Dillard served as Senior Vice President, Manufacturing, Science and Technology for USSTC.  He joined USSTC in December 2001. 

Mr. Whitaker s wife and Mr. Surgner s wife are first cousins. 
  Codes of Conduct and Corporate Governance    
  Altria Group, Inc. has adopted the Altria Code of Conduct for Compliance and Integrity, which complies with requirements set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K.  This Code of Conduct applies to all of its employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions.  Altria Group, Inc. has also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the members of its Board of Directors.  These documents are available free of charge on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.  
  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. has adopted corporate governance guidelines and charters for its Audit, Compensation and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committees and the other committees of the Board of Directors.  All of these documents are available free of charge on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.   
  Any waiver granted by Altria Group, Inc. to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or controller under the Code of Conduct, and certain amendments to the Code of Conduct, will be disclosed on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com within the time period required by applicable rules.  
  The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.  

Item 11.  Executive Compensation  .  
  Refer to  Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Matters - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,   Compensation Committee Matters - Compensation Committee Report for the Year Ended   December 31, 2014  ,  and  Board and Governance Matters - Directors - Director Compensation  sections of the proxy statement. 
    Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  .  
  Refer to  Ownership of Equity Securities of the Company  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  sections of the proxy statement.  
    Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  .  
  Refer to  Related Person Transactions and Code of Conduct  and  Board and Governance Matters - Directors - Director Independence Determinations  sections of the proxy statement.  
    Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services  .  
  Refer to  Audit Committee Matters - Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Fees  and  Audit Committee Matters - Pre-Approval  Policy  sections of the proxy statement.  
      
  108 

       Table of Contents  

   Part IV 
  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  . 
  (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Schedules have been omitted either because such schedules are not required or are not applicable. 
    
  In accordance with Regulation S-X Rule 3-09, the financial statements of SABMiller for its fiscal years ended March 31, 2015 (unaudited), March 31, 2014 (unaudited), and 2013, will be filed by amendment within six months after SABMiller s fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. 
    
    (b)  The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  

109 

     Table of Contents  

4.1 
      
    Indenture between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of December 2, 1996. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A filed on January 29, 1998 (No. 333-35143). 

4.2 
      
    First Supplemental Indenture to Indenture, dated as of December 2, 1996, between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of February 13, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 15, 2008 (File No. 1-08940). 

4.3 
      
    Indenture among Altria Group, Inc., as Issuer, Philip Morris USA Inc., as Guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, dated as of November 4, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on November 4, 2008 (No. 333-155009). 

4.4 
      
    Amended and Restated 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 19, 2013, among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents.  Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2013 (File No. 1-08940).  

4.5 
      
    Extension Agreement, effective August 19, 2014, among Altria Group, Inc. and the lenders party thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents.  Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2014 (File No. 1-08940).  

4.6 
      
    The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Commission upon request. 

10.1 
      
    Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of October 17, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.2 
      
    Settlement Agreement related to settlement of Florida health care cost recovery action, dated August 25, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 3, 1997 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.3 
      
    Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Texas health care cost recovery action, dated as of January 16, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.4 
      
    Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of Judgment regarding the claims of the State of Minnesota, dated as of May 8, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.5 
      
    Settlement Agreement and Release regarding the claims of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, dated as of May 8, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.6 
      
    Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Agreed Order regarding the settlement of the Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of July 2, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.7 
      
    Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Consent Decree regarding the settlement of the Texas health care cost recovery action, dated as of July 24, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.8 
      
    Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Consent Decree regarding the settlement of the Florida health care cost recovery action, dated as of September 11, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

110 

     Table of Contents  

111 

     Table of Contents  

112 

     Table of Contents  

*  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which directors or executive officers are eligible to participate.  

113 

SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

ALTRIA GROUP, INC. 

By: 
    /s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 

(Martin J. Barrington 
  Chairman of the Board and 
  Chief Executive Officer) 

Date: February 25, 2015 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:  
    
                         Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON       
      (Martin J. Barrington) 
      
    Director, Chairman of the Board and 
  Chief Executive Officer 
      
    February 25, 2015 

/s/ HOWARD A. WILLARD III     
      (Howard A. Willard III) 
      
    Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
      
    February 25, 2015 

/s/ IVAN S. FELDMAN 
      (Ivan S. Feldman) 
      
    Vice President and Controller 
      
    February 25, 2015 

* GERALD L. BALILES, 
  JOHN T. CASTEEN III, 
  DINYAR S. DEVITRE, 
  THOMAS F. FARRELL II, 
  THOMAS W. JONES, 
  DEBRA J. KELLY-ENNIS 
  W. LEO KIELY III,  
  KATHRYN B. MCQUADE, 
  GEORGE MU OZ, 
  NABIL Y. SAKKAB 
      
    Directors 

*By: 
    /s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 
  (MARTIN J. BARRINGTON  
  ATTORNEY-IN-FACT) 

February 25, 2015 

114 

<EX-10.19>
 2
 exhibit1019benefitequaliza.htm
 BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN, EFFECTIVE SEPTEMBER 2, 1974, AS AMENDED

Exhibit 10.19 Benefit Equalization Plan 

Exhibit  10.19 

BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN 
    
  Effective September 2, 1974 
    
  (As amended and in effect as of January 1, 2014) 

BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN 
    
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
      ARTICLE I 
    DEFINITIONS 
    3 
      ARTICLE II 
    BENEFIT EQUALIZATION RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES 
  BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PROFIT-SHARING ALLOWANCES 
  AND BENEFIT EQUALIZATION COMBINED ALLOWANCES 
    18 
      ARTICLE III 
    FUNDS FROM WHICH ALLOWANCES ARE PAYABLE 
    32 
      ARTICLE IV 
    THE ADMINISTRATOR 
    33 
      ARTICLE V 
    AMENDMENT AND DISCONTINUANCE OF THE PLAN 
    34 
      ARTICLE VI 
    FORMS; COMMUNICATIONS 
    35 
      ARTICLE VII 
    INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS 
    36 
      ARTICLE VIII 
    CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS 
    37 
      EXHIBIT A: 
    ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE A SINGLE SUM PAYMENT 
    40 
      APPENDIX 1: 
    TP EMPLOYEES 
    41 
      APPENDIX  2: 
    TAX ASSUMPTIONS 
    42 
      APPENDIX  3: 
    CALCULATION OF BENEFIT SECULAR TRUST AND 
  EXECUTIVE TRUST ARRANGEMENT PARTICIPANT 
    43 

i 

BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PLAN  
    
  INTRODUCTION 

The Benefit Equalization Plan governs the rights of an Employee whose benefit under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, or both Qualified Plans, is subject to one or more of the Statutory Limitations, or to the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code and the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code. 
    
  The Plan was amended as of January 1, 2010, to include the participation of salaried employees of UST LLC and its affiliates who were participants in the UST LLC Retirement Income Plan for Salaried Employees (the substantive terms of which are now in Part V of the Retirement Plan as a result of the merger of the assets and liabilities of that plan with and into the assets and liabilities of the Retirement Plan after the close of business on December 31, 2009). In addition, effective as of January 1, 2010, the liabilities of the UST Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, UST Inc. Excess Retirement Benefit Plan and UST Inc. Officers  Supplemental Retirement Plan with respect to the limitations applicable to plans qualified under Section 401(a) of the Code (  e.g.  , Sections 401(a)(17) and 415 of the Code) have been merged into and assumed by the Plan. 
    
  The Plan as hereinafter set forth shall be effective with respect to Employees who incur a Separation from Service on or after November 1, 2011, except as otherwise provided herein. The rights of a person whose Separation from Service or date of becoming an Inactive Participant is before November 1, 2011, shall be governed by the provisions of the plan (or the plan, the liabilities of which have been assumed by this Plan, in which such former employee participated on the date of his termination of employment) as in effect on his Separation from Service or date of becoming an Inactive Participant, as the case may be, except to the extent that the Administrator has determined in his sole discretion to administer the Plan in good faith compliance with Section 409A of the Code and any then published guidance so as to not subject any Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance to Section 409A of the Code. 
    
  The Plan is comprised of four separate plans, programs or arrangements. Each plan shall be treated as a separate plan, program or arrangement from the other plans. One of the plans provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) solely in excess of the Section 415 Limitations; the second plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) attributable solely to the Compensation Limitation; the third plan provides benefits to a Retired Employee (or his Spouse or other Beneficiary) because payment of the benefit from one or both of the Qualified Plans could result in a failure to meet the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code; and the fourth plan provides benefits to a TP Employee who resumed active participation in the Plan, effective January 1, 2008. 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the provisions of this Plan, (1) no amounts shall be deemed credited or accrued under the Plan after December 31, 2004, to the extent the Administrator determines that the accrual, crediting or payment of such amounts under the terms of  the  Plan  or  related  arrangements  would  risk  subjecting  Plan  participants  to  taxation  or 

1 

penalties under Section 409A of the Code, and (2) the Plan terms applicable to any amounts determined by the Administrator to be deferred compensation subject to the requirements of such Section 409A may be modified by the Administrator to the extent it deems necessary or appropriate to ensure compliance with such requirements. The Administrator may take any such action with respect to some participants but not others as it in its sole discretion deems appropriate under the circumstances. 
    
    2 

ARTICLE I 
  DEFINITIONS 
    
  The following terms as used herein and in the Preamble shall have the meanings set forth 
  below.  Any capitalized term used herein or in the Preamble and not defined below shall have the meaning set forth in the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, as the context may require. 
    
  (a)     Actuarial Equivalent    shall mean a benefit which is at least equivalent in value to the benefit otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan, based on the actuarial principles and assumptions set forth in   Exhibit     I to the Retirement Plan. 
    
  (b)     After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance    shall mean the amount by which (i) the TP Employee s Gross After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance exceeds (ii) his Trust Account TP Value. 
    
  (c)     Allowance    or    Allowances    shall mean a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, determined under ARTICLE IIA of the Plan, a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, determined under ARTICLE IIB of the Plan and a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance determined under ARTICLE IIC of the Plan. 
    
  (d)     Assumed Trust Account TP    shall mean the assumed trust account established pursuant to a TP Employee s Supplemental Enrollment Agreement. 
    
           (e) 
       Beneficiary    shall mean: 
       
  (i)  In the case of a Retired Employee who is to receive all or a portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance after his Separation from Service in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(1)(a), IIE(1)(b) or IIE(1)(c)(ii) of the Plan, but who dies after his Separation from Service and before such Single Sum Payment is made, the Beneficiary of such Single Sum Payment shall be the Spouse to whom he was married on the date of death; provided, however, that if the Retired Employee is not married on the date of his death, the Beneficiary of such Single Sum Payment shall be the Retired Employee s estate. 
    
  (ii)  In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who has elected pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan to receive, after his Separation from Service, that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment described in ARTICLE I(dd)(i)(2) or (3) of the Plan, the person or persons designated by the Grandfathered Employee to receive (or who, pursuant to the terms of such Optional Payment, will receive) after his death a benefit according to the option elected by the Grandfathered Employee. 
    
  (iii)  In the case of an Employee or Retired Employee who has been credited with a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and who dies prior to the payment of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (or prior to the payment of the then remaining balance of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the case of a Grandfathered 
    3 

Employee who has elected pursuant to ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan to receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment described in ARTICLE I(dd)(ii) of the Plan), the Beneficiary of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (or remaining balance thereof) shall be the beneficiary or beneficiaries of such former Employee who is or are to receive the balance in such former Employee s account under the Profit-Sharing Plan. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article I(e), if the value of the Trust Account TP is greater than the TP Employee s Gross After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance, then the Beneficiary of any such excess shall be the beneficiary as determined pursuant to the terms of the Trust Account TP. 
    
  (f)     Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance    shall mean the benefit determined under ARTICLE IIC of the Plan and payable at the times and in the form set forth in ARTICLE IIE of the Plan. The Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance. 
    
  (g)     Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance    shall mean the total amount that would be payable during a twelve (12) month period as a reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance to a Retired Employee for life and after his death the amount payable to his Spouse for life equal to one-half of the reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable to the Retired Employee (regardless of whether such form of benefit was available to such Retired Employee and his Spouse), or in such other amount as described in ARTICLE IIC(2) of the Plan, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance of the Retired Employee. 
    
  (h)     Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance    or    Profit-Sharing Allowance    shall mean: 
    
  (i)        with respect to Allowances other than a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, the benefit determined under ARTICLE IIB of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE IIF of the Plan; and 
    
  (ii)        with respect to a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is a portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, the benefit determined under ARTICLE IIC of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in ARTICLE IIF of the Plan. 
    
  The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance. The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall not include a UST Employee s UST Plan Benefit. 
    
  (i)     Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance    shall mean the benefit determined under ARTICLE IIA of the Plan and payable at the times and in the forms set forth in 
    
    4 

ARTICLE IIF of the Plan. The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be comprised of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, if any, and the remaining portion of such Allowance. The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall not include a UST Employee s UST Plan Benefit. 
    
           (j) 
       Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance    shall mean the benefit payable to: 
       
           (i) 
    the Spouse of a Deceased Employee; and 
       
           (ii) 
    the Spouse of a deceased Retired Employee; 
       
  in an amount equal to one-half of the reduced Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance which would have been payable in the form of a Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance to the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee (regardless of whether such form of benefit was available to such Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee), or in such other amount as described in ARTICLE IIC(2) of the Plan. 
    
  (k)     BEP Benefit Commencement Date    shall mean the date specified in clause (1), (2), or (3) below, as applicable to the relevant Allowance. All such Allowances not paid in a Single Sum Payment are paid in arrears so that the actual date of payment shall be the first day of the calendar month next succeeding the BEP Benefit Commencement Date. 
    
  (1)  (i)     Except as provided in clauses (ii), (iii), (iv) and (v) of this ARTICLE I(k)(1) of the Plan, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall be the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date. 
    
  (ii)  (A)     Except as provided in clauses (B) and (C) of this ARTICLE I(k)(1)(ii) of the Plan, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan to a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan. 
    
  (B)  The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in the form of an Optional Payment with respect to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who voluntarily retires within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of his application for an Optional Payment with the Administrator pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan, or whose employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Management Committee) within such one (1) year period, shall be the first day of the month following the expiration of the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of his application for an Optional Payment. 
    
  (C)  The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the benefit payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(f) of the Plan to the Beneficiary of a Grandfathered Retired 
    
    5 

Employee who died after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be the first day of the month following the death of the deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
  (iii)  The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of (A) that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to a Retired TP Employee and (B) that portion of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee, who in each case is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service, shall be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Retired Employee s Vested Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan. 
    
  (iv)  The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of any Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(e) of the Plan and of any Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance described in ARTICLE IIC(1)(e) of the Plan shall be the benefit commencement date of such Allowance as set forth in the General Release Agreement; provided, however, that if no time of payment is specified, the BEP Benefit 
  Commencement Date shall be the Payment Date, but no later than the 15   th      day of the third month following the end of the Employee s Participating Company first taxable year in which the right is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture; provided, however, that no such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall change either the time or form of payment of the Allowance (including a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance) otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan. 
    
  (v)  The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit- Sharing Allowance that is payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan to a TP Employee shall be the date specified in the application. 
    
  (2)  (i)       (A)    Except as provided in clause (B) of this ARTICLE I(k)(2)(i) of the Plan, the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (other than the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance of a TP Employee which shall be paid as part of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance pursuant to ARTICLE I(k)(1) of the Plan) shall be the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date. 
    
  (B)  The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is payable in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to an election under ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan to a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be the date specified in the application. 
    
  (3)  (i)       (A)    Except as provided in clause (B) of this ARTICLE I(k)(3)(i), the BEP  Benefit  Commencement  Date  of  the  Benefit  Equalization  Survivor  Allowance 
    
    6 

payable to the Spouse of a Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee shall be the Survivor Allowance Payment Date, but not later than the Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date. 
    
  (B)        The BEP Benefit Commencement Date of that portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is derived from (i) the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or (ii) the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is payable to: 
    
           (1) 
    the Spouse of a Grandfathered Deceased Employee; or 
       
           (2) 
    the Spouse of a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee, 
       
  shall, in each case, be the Benefit Commencement Date of the Survivor Allowance payable to such Spouse under the Retirement Plan, provided that the Spouse may elect in accordance with the provisions of Paragraphs G2.05(c) and (d)(2) of Part I of the Retirement Plan, as applicable to the Spouse, that the BEP Benefit Commencement Date be the first day of any month thereafter, but not later than the later of (i) the first day of the second calendar month following the month in which the Grandfathered Deceased Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee died (or if his date of birth was on the first day of a calendar month, the first day of the calendar month next following the calendar month in which the Grandfathered Deceased Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee died), or (ii) the date that would have been the Grandfathered Deceased Employee s or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee s Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date. 
    
  (l)     Change  in  Circumstance     shall  mean,  with  respect  to  a  Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant: 
    
  (i)        the marriage of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee; 
    
  (ii)        the divorce of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee from his spouse (determined in accordance with applicable state law), provided: 
    
           (1) 
    such spouse was the Beneficiary who is to receive an Optional Payment, or 
       
           (2) 
    the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee elected pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan to receive an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(dd)(i) of the Plan; 
       
  (iii)        the death of the Beneficiary designated by the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee to receive an Optional Payment after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee; or 
    
    7 

(iv)        a medical condition of the Beneficiary, based on medical evidence satisfactory to the Administrator, which is expected to result in the death of the Beneficiary within five (5) years of the filing of an application for change in Optional Payment method pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3) or ARTICLE IIF(3) hereof. 
    
  (m)     Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
    
  (n)     Company    shall mean Altria Client Services Inc. Altria Client Services Inc. is the sponsor of the Plan. 
    
  (o)     Compensation    shall have the same meaning as in the applicable Part of the Retirement Plan, except that in computing the Retirement Allowance and Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of an Employee in salary bands A and B who was not age fifty-five (55) or older at December 31, 2006, Compensation for Plan years on and after January 1, 2007, shall mean the lesser of his (i) base salary, plus annual incentive award, and (ii) base salary, plus annual incentive award at a business rating of 100 and individual performance rating of  Exceeds . 
    
  (p)     Compensation Limitation    shall mean the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) of the Code on the annual compensation of an Employee which may be taken into account under the Qualified Plans. 
    
  (q)     Earned and Vested    shall mean, when referring to an Allowance or any portion of an Allowance, an amount that, as of January 1, 2005, is not subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined in Treasury Regulation Section 1.83-3(c)) or a requirement to perform future services. 
    
  (r)     Employee    shall mean any person employed by a Participating Company who has accrued a benefit under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, but whose entire accrued benefit, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, cannot be paid under the Retirement Plan or the Profit-Sharing Plan, or either of such Qualified Plans, as a result of the Statutory Limitations, provided that an Employee shall not include a TP Employee, but only with respect to those calendar years in which he was a participant in such arrangement. An Employee shall include a UST Employee but only with respect to any benefit earned under the Profit-Sharing Plan on or after January 1, 2010, and disregarding any part of the UST Employee s UST Plan Benefit earned on and after such date. 
    
  (s)     ERISA    means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time. 
    
  (t)     Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance    shall mean the total amount that would be payable during a twelve (12) month period as a reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to a Grandfathered Retired Employee for life and after his death the amount payable to his Spouse for life equal to one-half of the reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable to the Grandfathered Retired Employee, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of (i) that portion of the 
    
    8 

Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, or (ii) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of the Retired Grandfathered Employee. 
    
  (u)     Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance    shall mean, with respect to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant, the total amount of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable during a twelve (12) month period in accordance with one of the payment methods described in Paragraph G2.04(d) of Part I of the Retirement Plan and designated by the Grandfathered Retired Employee in his application for an Optional Payment under ARTICLE IIE(3) of the Plan, pursuant to which the Grandfathered Retired Employee receives for life after his Date of Retirement a reduced Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in equal monthly payments for life and after his death after his Date of Retirement his Beneficiary receives for life a benefit in equal monthly payments according to the option elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee, which together shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable in equal monthly payments for the life of the Grandfathered Retired Employee after his Date of Retirement. 
    
           (v) 
       Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing  Allowance    shall mean 
     (i) that portion of a Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, or (ii) that portion of a Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, in each case as of December 31, 2004, the right to which is Earned and Vested as of December 31, 2004, plus any future contributions to the account, the right to which was Earned and Vested as of December 31, 2004, but only to the extent such contributions are actually made, plus earnings (whether actual or notional) attributable to such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance as of December 31, 2004, or to such income. 
    
  (w)     Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance    shall mean the present value of (i) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, or (ii) that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, in each case earned to December 31, 2004, to which the Grandfathered Employee or Retired Grandfathered Employee would have been entitled under the Plan if he had voluntarily terminated services without cause on or before December 31, 2004, and received payment of such benefit on the earliest permissible date following termination of employment in the form with the greatest value, expressed for purposes of this calculation as a single life annuity commencing at age 65; provided, however, that for any subsequent year such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance may increase to equal the present value of such portion of his benefit the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee actually becomes entitled to, in the form and at the time actually paid, determined in accordance with the terms of the Plan (including applicable Statutory Limitations) as in effect on October 3, 2004, without regard to any further services rendered by the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee after December 31, 2004, or any other events affecting the amount of or the entitlement to benefits (other than an election with respect to the time and form of an available benefit). 
    
    9 

In computing that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee who is eligible for an Early Retirement Allowance, whether reduced or unreduced (but is not eligible for a Full or Deferred Retirement Allowance) under the Retirement Plan as of the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service, or, in the discretion of the Administrator, the end of the Grandfathered Employee s policy severance, such Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, computed as though such benefit were payable under the terms of the Retirement Plan in the form of a Retirement Allowance commencing on the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service or, in the discretion of the Administrator, the end of the Grandfathered Employee s policy severance; provided, however, that solely for purposes of determining the early retirement factor to be applied in determining the Actuarial Equivalent of such benefit, the earliest date on which the Grandfathered Employee shall be treated as being entitled to an unreduced benefit under the Retirement Plan for purposes of Exhibit 1 to the Retirement Plan shall be the earliest date on which the Grandfathered Employee would have been entitled to an unreduced benefit if the Grandfathered Employee had voluntarily terminated employment on December 31, 2004. 
    
  (x)     Grandfathered Deceased Employee    shall mean a Grandfathered Employee who died while he was an Employee at a time when he had a nonforfeitable right to any portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance. 
    
           (y) 
       Grandfathered Employee    shall mean: 
       
  (i)        an Employee who is entitled to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that was Earned and Vested; or 
    
  (ii)        an Employee who is entitled to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, 
    
  and who, in either instance, is a participant in the executive trust or is a Secular Trust Participant. 
    
           (z) 
       Grandfathered Retired Employee    shall mean: 
       
  (i)        a Grandfathered Employee who has retired and is eligible for that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that was Earned and Vested; and 
    
  (ii)        a Grandfathered Employee who has retired and is eligible for that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit- Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance. 
    
    10 

(aa)        Gross After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance    shall be equal to the amount that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  ), but disregarding any withholding for the TP Employee s share of employment taxes, were withheld on the sum of (i) that portion of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and (ii) that portion of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit- Sharing Allowance. 
    
  (bb)       Latest Payment Date    shall mean the later of: 
    
  (i)  December 31  st   of the year in which the Payment Date occurs, and 
  (ii)  the fifteenth day of the third month following the Payment Date. 
  (cc)       Optional Payment    shall mean: 
  (i)  the following optional forms in which that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant may be paid: 
    
           (1) 
    in  equal  monthly  payments  for  the  life  of  the  Grandfathered  Retired Employee; 
       
           (2) 
    a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance; or 
       
           (3) 
    a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance; and 
       
  (ii)  in the case of that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee, any of the methods of distribution permitted under ARTICLE VI of the Profit-Sharing Plan (other than a Single Sum Payment payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(2)(i)(A) of the Plan) and in the event the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee dies before distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is made, commences to be made or is fully distributed, to his Beneficiary in accordance with the method of distribution designated by such Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee; provided however, that payment to a Beneficiary who is not the Spouse of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee shall be made no later than one (1) year following the death of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
  Any  election  to  receive  an  Optional  Payment  with  respect  to  any  Allowance  or Allowances under the Plan shall be independent of any election with respect to benefits 
    
    11 

payable  under  the  Retirement  Plan,  the  Profit-Sharing Plan,  or  any other  plan  of  a member of the Controlled Group. 
    
  (dd)       Payment Date    shall mean: 
    
  (i)  With respect to payment of a benefit under the Plan other than a UST Plan Benefit, the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Employee Separates from Service; and 
    
  (ii)  In all cases of a payment due under the Plan with respect to a UST Plan Benefit on behalf of a UST Employee that would have been payable pursuant to Part V of the Retirement Plan but for the Statutory Limitations or for any other reason but that are payable pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, the Payment Date shall mean the first of the month following the latest of: 

(B) 
    the UST Employee s Separation from Service, or 
       
           (C) 
    the UST Employee s attainment of age fifty-five (55); 
       
  if the UST Employee dies after the Payment Date but before actual payment is made, the Payment Date shall be the day following the date of death, but no later than December 31  st   of the year in which the UST Employee dies. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in all cases of a Separation from Service other than on account of death, the Payment Date in the case of a Specified Employee shall be the first day of the seventh calendar month following the date that such Specified Employee Separates from Service. 
    
  (iii)  With respect to a payment under the Plan to an individual other than the Employee pursuant to the terms of a domestic relations order (as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code), the Payment Date shall be the date necessary to fulfill such domestic relations order. 
    
  (iv)  With respect to the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance credited pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(1), IIB(2)(a), IIB(2)(c), and IIC(1)(a)(ii) for the year in which the Employee Separates from Service, the Payment Date for such amount shall mean the date on which such amount is credited in the year following the year in which the Employee Separates from Service, and the Payment Date shall be no later than June 30 of such year. 
    
  (ee)       Plan    shall mean the Benefit Equalization Plan described herein and in any amendments hereto. 
    
  (ff)       Profit-Sharing Plan    shall mean the Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees, effective January 1, 1956, and as amended from time to time. 
    12 

(gg)       Qualified Plans    shall mean the Retirement Plan and the Profit-Sharing Plan. 
    
  (hh)        Retired Employee    shall mean a former Employee who is eligible for or in receipt of, an Allowance. A Retired Employee shall cease to be such when he has received all of the Allowances payable to him under the Plan. 
    
  (ii)     Retired TP Employee    shall mean a former TP Employee who is eligible for or in receipt of, an Allowance pursuant to ARTICLE IIC of the Plan. A Retired TP Employee shall cease to be such when he has received all of the Allowances payable to him under the Plan. 
    
  (jj)        Retirement Plan    shall mean Parts I and II of the Altria Retirement Plan, effective as of September 1, 1978, and as amended from time to time. 
    
  (kk)       Section 415 Limitations    shall mean: 
    
  (i)  in the case of the Retirement Plan, the limitations on benefits applicable to defined benefit plans set forth in Section 415 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder, and 
    
  (ii)  in the case of the Profit-Sharing Plan, the limitations on contributions applicable to defined contribution plans set forth in Section 415 of the Code and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder. 
    
  (ll)       Secular Trust Participant    shall mean a Grandfathered Employee who signed an enrollment agreement to participate in the secular trust arrangement. 
    
  (mm)       Separation from Service  ,     Separates from Service    or    Separated from Service    shall each have the same meaning as the term  separation from service  in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h)(1); provided, however, that with respect to the payment of any Grandfathered Allowance that is not subject to Section 409A of the Code, such terms shall mean the date that the Employee terminated his services as an Employee with his Participating Company and each other member of the Controlled Group. 
    
  (nn)       Single Sum Payment    shall mean payment of a benefit or portion of a benefit in a single payment to a Retired Employee, or to the Spouse or other Beneficiary of an Employee, Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee.   A Single Sum Payment shall be (i) the Actuarial Equivalent of all or that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the Retired Employee, and (ii) the Actuarial Equivalent of the (or portion of the) Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance payable in equal monthly payments during a twelve (12) month period for the life of the Spouse of the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee, in each case using the actuarial principles and assumptions set forth in   EXHIBIT A     to the Plan; provided, however, that a Single Sum Payment with respect to a Grandfathered Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant shall equal the greater of (i) the amount determined pursuant to the foregoing provisions of this ARTICLE I(nn) and (ii) the amount required to purchase a single life annuity (or, for purposes of a secular trust participant, a Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance) equal to the benefit otherwise identified 
    
    13 

under  the  Plan  from  a  licensed  commercial  insurance  company,  as  determined  in  the  sole discretion of the Administrator. 
    
  (i)  A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance (including payments with respect to benefits earned under the UST Plans), except with respect to: 
    
  (1)  that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service; and 
    
  (2)  that portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment  pursuant  to ARTICLE IIE(3)(a) of the Plan and which election does not cease to be of any force and effect pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(d) of the Plan. 
    
  (ii)  A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, except with respect to: 
    
  (1)        that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service; and 
    
  (2)        that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance derived solely from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that is payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIE(3)(a) of the Plan and which election does not cease to be of  any  force  and  effect  pursuant  to ARTICLE IIE(3)(d) of the Plan. 
    
  (iii)  A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance, except with respect to that portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance derived solely from that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance 
    
    14 

payable to the Spouse of a Grandfathered Deceased Employee or the Spouse of a deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
  (iv)  A Single Sum Payment shall be the exclusive form of distribution of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance, except with respect to that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit- Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who has timely elected to receive after his Date of Retirement that portion of his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance equal to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan. 
    
  (oo)        Specified Employee    shall have the meaning given in  Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(i). 
    
  (pp)       Statutory Limitations    shall mean: 

(ii) 
    the Compensation Limitation. 
       
  (qq)        Supplemental Enrollment Agreement    shall mean the most recent of any Supplemental Employee Grantor Trust Enrollment Agreements and Supplemental Cash Enrollment Agreements between a TP Employee and a Participating Company or their affiliates or predecessors. 
    
  (rr)       Survivor Allowance Latest Payment Date    shall mean the later of: 
    
  (i)  December 31   st      of the year in which the Survivor Allowance Payment Date occurs, or 
    
  (ii)  the fifteenth day of the third month following the Survivor Allowance Payment Date. 
    
  (ss)        Survivor Allowance Payment Date    shall mean the first day  of  the  third calendar month following the month in which the Deceased Employee or deceased Retired Employee died. 
    
  (tt)       TP Employee    shall mean an Employee identified in   Appendix 1  , as a result of his participation in the target payment program for the calendar years 2005 through 2007. 
    
  (uu)        Trust Account TP    shall mean the trust subaccount established pursuant to a Employee s Supplemental Enrollment Agreement and to which target payments have been credited. 
    
           (vv) 
       Trust Account TP Value    shall mean, 
       
    15 

(i)  with respect to a TP Employee for whom a Trust Account TP has been established, the sum of the amounts credited to the TP Employee s Assumed Trust Account TP and Trust Account TP as of the earlier of the date: 
    
  (1)  on which the TP Employee s Trust Account TP is terminated and distributed in accordance with the procedures established by the Administrator, 
    
  (2)  that is 60 days after the TP Employee s Separation from Service, or 
    
           (3) 
    on which a Change in Control occurs, and 
       
  (ii)  with respect to a TP Employee for whom a Trust Account TP has not been established, the amounts credited to the TP Employee s Assumed Trust Account TP as of the earlier of the date: 
    
           (1) 
    of the TP Employee s Separation from Service, or 
       
           (2) 
    on which a Change in Control occurs, 
       
  in each case, reduced by the estimated amount of any taxes that would be attributable to income or assumed income from these accounts assuming liquidation of the accounts as of the applicable determination date set out above, but which have not been paid or deducted from these accounts, calculated using the income tax rate assumptions set forth in   Appendix 2     and disregarding any withholding for the TP Employee s share of employment taxes. 
    
  (ww)        UST Plan Benefit    shall mean the benefit earned by a UST Employee under the terms of the UST Plans as in effect on December 31, 2009, (including the provisions of the UST LLC Retirement Income Plan for Salaried Employees that ceased the earning of any service used to compute the amount of a UST Employee s benefits as of December 31, 2009), including any increase in such benefit as a result of Compensation paid after December 31, 2009, and vesting service completed after December 31, 2009, that is used to determine if the UST Employee is eligible for any early retirement subsidy. 
    
  (xx)     UST Employee    shall mean an Employee who has accrued a UST Plan Benefit. 
  (yy)       UST Plans    shall mean: 
  (i)  the UST Inc. Benefit Restoration Plan, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the merger of that portion of its liabilities allocable to benefits that were payable from the Benefit Restoration Plan solely as a result of the limitations on compensation under Section 401(a)(17) of the Code into the liabilities of the Plan; 
    
  (ii)  the UST Inc. Excess Retirement Benefit Plan, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the merger of its liabilities into the liabilities of the Plan; and 
    
    16 

(iii)  the UST Inc. Officers  Supplemental Retirement Plan, as amended and in effect immediately prior to the merger of its liabilities into the liabilities of the Plan. 
    
  The masculine pronoun shall include the feminine pronoun unless the context clearly requires otherwise. 
    
    17 

ARTICLE II 
    
  BENEFIT EQUALIZATION RETIREMENT ALLOWANCES, BENEFIT EQUALIZATION PROFIT-SHARING ALLOWANCES AND BENEFIT EQUALIZATION COMBINED ALLOWANCES 
    
           A. 
    Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowances and other benefits payable under this Plan with respect to a Retired Employee who was not a TP Employee shall be as follows: 
       
  (1)  (a)     Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c), and (d) of  this ARTICLE IIA(1), the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Retired Employee who was not a TP Employee shall equal the sum of (i) and (ii) below: 
    
  (i)  the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, exceeds the amount of the Retirement Allowance actually payable under the Retirement Plan, plus 
    
  (ii)  in the case of a Retired Employee who is eligible to receive an enhanced benefit under the Qualified Plan (such as a benefit payable pursuant to a voluntary early retirement program or a shutdown benefit), but whose additional accrued benefit resulting solely from participation in such program or benefit may not be paid from the Qualified Plan because of the nondiscrimination requirements of Section 401(a)(4) of the Code, or the coverage requirements of Section 410(b) of the Code, the amount of such additional accrued benefit payable to such Retired Employee solely as a result of his participation in such program or benefit. 
    
  (b)  In no event shall any increase in a Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance resulting from an amendment to the Retirement Plan to add or remove a subsidized benefit, change the time and form of payment of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance earned prior to the date of such amendment. 
    
  (c)  In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to the Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE prior to the Retired Employee s Benefit Commencement Date under the Retirement Plan, the amount of such Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall equal the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, is reasonably estimated by the Administrator to exceed the amount of the Retirement Allowance which is projected by the Administrator to be actually payable under the Retirement Plan. 
    
  (d)  In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to a Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE prior  to  the  date  the  Retired  Employee  shall  have  specified  on  his  application  for 
    
    18 

retirement as the Benefit Commencement Date of his Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan, the Single Sum Payment shall be calculated based on the assumption that the Retired Employee elected to receive a Retirement Allowance at his Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date or Unreduced Vested Retirement Benefit Commencement Date, as applicable to the Retired Employee. 
    
  (e)  If, as a result of the execution of a General Release Agreement (and not revoking it), (A) an Employee first obtains a legally binding right to payment of an increase in his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, (B) as of the first date the Employee obtains a legally binding right to such increase it is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(d)), then the amount of such increase in the Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance with respect to such Employee shall be the amount as set forth in the General Release Agreement and shall be payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(iv) of the Plan provided, however that no such increase in an Employee s Benefit Equalization Allowance shall change either the time or form of payment of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan. The provisions of this paragraph are in lieu of, and not in addition to, the benefits provided pursuant to the provisions of ARTICLE IIA(1)(a)(ii) of the Plan. 
    
           (2) 
    The Spouse of 
       
  (a)  a Deceased Employee (other than a TP Employee), or 
    
  (b)  a deceased Retired Employee (other than a deceased Retired TP Employee and a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who made an election for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance and designated a Beneficiary other than his Spouse) who has died after his Date of Retirement and before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, or 
    
  (c)  a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant whose request for an Optional Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(dd)(i)(2) or (3) of the Plan with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who has died after his Date of Retirement and before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, 
    
  shall, in each case, be eligible to receive a Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance. 
    
           B. 
    Benefit  Equalization  Profit-Sharing  Allowances  payable  under  this  Plan  shall  be  as follows: 
       
  (1)        The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to an Employee who is not a TP Employee or a Match-Eligible Employee shall equal the amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account in the Profit-Sharing Plan as a result of the Statutory Limitations. 
    
    19 

(2)        The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance with respect to an Employee who is a Match-Eligible Employee, but who is not a TP Employee shall equal the sum of (a), (b) and (c) below: 
    
  (a)  the amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account in the Profit-Sharing Plan as a result of the Statutory Limitations, plus 
    
  (b)  beginning with the first calendar year for which the Match-Eligible Employee is eligible for an allocation of the Contribution to his Company Account in the Profit-Sharing Plan and for each year thereafter, provided that the Match-Eligible Employee receives a Company Contribution to his Company Account for each such year, the amount of Company Match Contributions that could not be made to the Profit- Sharing Plan for such calendar year as a result of the Statutory Limitations, assuming that the Match-Eligible Employee elected to make Salary Reduction Contributions, After-Tax Contributions, or a combination of Salary Reduction Contributions and After-Tax Contributions of three percent (3%) of such Match-Eligible Employee s Compensation for such Plan Year, plus 
    
  (c)  the amounts which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Supplemental Company Contribution Account in the Profit-Sharing Plan as a result of the Statutory Limitations. 
    
  In order to be eligible for the portion of the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable under subsection (2)(b) for a Plan Year, the Match-Eligible Employee must have made the maximum dollar amount of Elective Contributions (including Catch-up Contributions, if applicable to the Match-Eligible Employee) for such Plan Year, as described in Section 402(g)(1) of the Code. 
    
  (3)        The amounts credited pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(2)(a) and (c) shall be deemed credited on the same date as the Company Contribution is made to the Profit-Sharing Plan. The amounts credited pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(2)(b) shall be deemed credited on January 1 immediately succeeding the calendar year for which such Company Match Contributions could not be made to the Profit-Sharing Plan, except in the case of the year in which the Employee Separates from Service, in which case the amounts shall be deemed credited on the date of the Employee s Separation from Service. All such amounts shall be deemed to have been invested in Part C of the Fund (as defined in the Profit-Sharing Plan) and valued in accordance with the provisions of the Profit-Sharing Plan. 
    
           C. 
    Benefit Equalization Combined Allowances payable under this Plan shall be as follows: 
       
  (1)        (a)     Subject to the provisions of subparagraphs (b), (c), and (d) of  this ARTICLE IIC of the Plan, the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance of a TP Employee shall be equal to the sum of clauses (i) and (ii) and subject to the proviso in clause (iii): 
    
  (i)        the amount by which the Full, Deferred, Early or Vested Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, expressed in the form of a Retirement Allowance, if computed 
    
    20 

without regard to the Statutory Limitations, exceeds the amount of the Full, Deferred, Early or Vested Retirement Allowance actually payable under the Retirement Plan, expressed in the form of a Retirement Allowance. 
    
  (A)  In computing the amount under ARTICLE IIC(1)(a)(i) with respect to a TP Employee who is eligible for a Full, Deferred or Vested Retirement Allowance, but is not eligible for an Early Retirement Allowance as of the TP Employee s Separation from Service or, if later, the end of the TP Employee s policy severance, such Full, Deferred or Vested Allowance shall equal the Actuarial Equivalent of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance (assuming that it is payable in monthly payments for the lifetime of the TP Employee), computed as though such Allowance were payable under the terms of the Retirement Plan as a Retirement Allowance at the later of age sixty-five (65), the age of the TP Employee at his Separation from Service or, if later, the end of the TP Employee s policy severance. 
    
  (B)  In computing the amount under ARTICLE IIC(1)(a)(i) with respect to a TP Employee who is eligible for an Early Retirement Allowance, whether reduced or unreduced, but is not eligible for a Full, Deferred or Vested Retirement Allowance, as of the TP Employee s Separation from Service or, if later, the end of the TP Employee s policy severance, such Early Retirement Allowance shall be the Actuarial Equivalent of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance (assuming that it is payable in monthly payments for the lifetime of the Employee), computed as though such Allowance were payable under the terms of the Retirement Plan as a Retirement Allowance commencing on the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee s Separation from Service, or, if later, at the end of the Employee s policy severance. If such Allowance is to be paid in a Single Sum Payment, such Early Retirement Allowance shall equal the present value of such Allowance that would be payable to the former TP Employee as of the first day of the month coincident with or next following the Employee s Separation from Service, or, if later, at the end of the Employee s policy severance date, determined as of the first day of the month following the month in which the former TP Employee Separated from Service (or died, in the case of a payment to the Spouse of the deceased TP Employee); plus 
    
  (ii)        the amount which would have been credited, but were not credited to his Company Account in the Profit-Sharing Plan as a result of the Statutory Limitations; and 
    
    21 

(iii)        provided, however, that, that portion of a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance which is not his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall equal the amount of the TP Employee s After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance converted to a pre-tax amount. Such pre-tax amount shall equal an amount sufficient to cause the amount remaining after withholding of income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  ), but disregarding any withholding for the TP Employee s share of employment taxes, to equal the After-Tax BEP Combined Allowance. 
    
  (iv)        Sample calculations of a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance are set forth in   Appendix 3  . 
    
  (b)  In no event shall any increase in a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance resulting from an amendment to the Retirement Plan to add or remove a subsidized benefit, change the time and form of payment of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance earned prior to the date of such amendment. 
    
  (c)  In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance with respect to the Grandfathered Retired Employee  described  in ARTICLE IIC(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE(1)(b) of the Plan prior to the TP Employee s Benefit Commencement Date under the Retirement Plan, the amount of such  Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall equal the amount by which the Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan accrued to the Date of Retirement, if computed without regard to the Statutory Limitations, is reasonably estimated by the Administrator to exceed the amount of the Retirement Allowance which is projected by the Administrator to be actually payable under the Retirement Plan. 
    
  (d)  In the event that all or any portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance with respect to a Retired TP Employee described in ARTICLE IIC(1)(a) of the Plan is paid in a Single Sum Payment in accordance with the provisions of ARTICLE IIE(1)(b) of the Plan prior to the date the Retired TP Employee shall have specified on his application for retirement as the Benefit Commencement Date of his Retirement Allowance under the Retirement Plan, the Single Sum Payment shall be calculated based on the assumption that the Retired TP Employee elected to receive a Retirement Allowance at his Unreduced Early Retirement Benefit Commencement Date or Unreduced Vested Retirement Benefit Commencement Date, as applicable to the Retired TP Employee. 
    
  (e)  If, as a result of the execution of a General Release Agreement (and not revoking it), (A) a TP Employee first obtains a legally binding right to payment of an increase in his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance, (B) as of the first date the TP Employee obtains a legally binding right to such increase it is subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(d)), then the 
    
    22 

amount of such increase in the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance with respect to such TP Employee shall be the amount as set forth in the General Release Agreement and shall be payable at the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(iv) of the Plan, provided, however that no such increase in a TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance shall change either the time or form of payment of that portion of the TP Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance otherwise payable pursuant to the terms of the Plan. 
    
  (2)        The Spouse of a TP Employee or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee who dies before his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance is paid shall be eligible to receive that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s or deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance, provided that, with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, the deceased Grandfathered Retired Employee did not make an election for a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance and designated a Beneficiary other than his Spouse; and, provided, further, that with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, such Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance shall be the amount calculated as follows: 
    
  (a)  Determine the amount, if any, by which (i) the Grandfathered Employee s Trust Account TP Value exceeds (ii) the amount calculated under ARTICLE IIC(3)(a) below. 
    
  (b)  If the TP Employee dies before terminating employment with the Controlled Group, determine one half of the amount that would be that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance if (i) the TP Employee had survived and had a Separation from Service on his date of death and (ii) the term Benefit Equalization Joint and Survivor Allowance were substituted for the term Retirement Allowance in each place that such term appears in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan. 
    
  (c)  Determine the amount that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes) were withheld on the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(b). 
    
  (d)  If the TP Employee dies after terminating employment with the Controlled Group but before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, determine the amount that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  ), but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment   taxes,   were   withheld   on   that   portion   of   the   Grandfathered 
    
    23 

Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance. 
    
  (e)  The portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall equal an amount sufficient to cause the amount remaining after withholding of income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes) to equal: 
    
  (i)  If the TP Employee dies before terminating employment with the Controlled Group, the amount by which (i) the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(c) of the Plan exceeds (ii) the remaining Trust Account TP Value, if any, determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(a) of the Plan; or 
    
  (ii)  If the TP Employee dies after terminating employment with the Controlled Group but before his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, the amount by which (i) the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(d) of the Plan exceeds (ii) the remaining Trust Account TP Value, if any, determined under ARTICLE IIC(2)(a) of the Plan. 
    
  (3)        If a Grandfathered Employee dies before his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance has been paid, the Grandfathered Employee s Beneficiary shall be eligible to receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to his Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance; provided that the portion of such Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance shall be in an amount calculated as follows: 
    
  (a)  Determine the amount that would remain if income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes) were withheld on that portion of the Grandfathered Employee s Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance. 
    
  (b)  Determine the amount, if any, by which (i) the amount determined under ARTICLE IIC(3)(a) exceeds (ii) the Grandfathered Employee s Trust Account TP Value. 
    
  (c)  The portion of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable under this ARTICLE IIC(3) shall equal an amount sufficient to cause the amount remaining after withholding of income taxes (determined as if withholding for federal, state and local income taxes were effected at the rates specified in   Appendix 2  , but disregarding any withholding for the Grandfathered Employee s share of employment taxes) to equal the amount, if any, determined under ARTICLE IIC(3)(b). 
    
  (4)        The Beneficiary of a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional  Payment  in  the  form  of  a  Grandfathered  Benefit  Equalization  Optional  Payment 
    24 

Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date shall be eligible to receive that portion of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee which is payable after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
  (5)        The Spouse of a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional Payment pursuant to clauses (2) or (3) of ARTICLE I(dd)(i) of the Plan with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance has been granted by the Administrator, but who dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, shall be eligible to receive a Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance. 
    
           D. 
    UST Plan Benefit payable under this Plan shall be as follows: 
       
  (1)        The UST Plan Benefit of a UST Employee who is not a UST Supplemental Retirement Participant shall be paid in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date specified in ARTICLE I(ee)(ii)(1). 
    
  (2)        The UST Plan Benefit of a UST Supplemental Retirement Participant shall be paid in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date specified in ARTICLE I(ee)(ii)(2). 
    
           E. 
    BEP Benefit Commencement Date and termination of Benefit Equalization Combined Allowances and Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowances payable in the form of an Optional Payment: 
       
  (1)        (a)     The Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) of the Plan shall be distributed in a Single Sum Payment on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i). If a Retired Employee described in ARTICLE IIA(1)(a) dies after his Date of Retirement and before payment of his Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance is paid in a Single Sum Payment, his Beneficiary shall receive a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i). 
    
  (b)  Except as provided in ARTICLE IIE(1)(c) below, the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIC(1) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is eligible for an Early, Full or Deferred Retirement Allowance in a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i). If the Grandfathered Retired Employee dies after his Date of Retirement and before payment of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance is paid in a Single Sum Payment, his Beneficiary shall receive a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i) of the Plan. 
    
  (c)  The Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIC(1) of the Plan shall be distributed to a Grandfathered Retired Employee who is only eligible for a Vested Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service, as follows: 
    
    25 

(i)  that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance shall be distributed in accordance with the Grandfathered Retired Employee s BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(iii) of the Plan and shall be paid in the same form of Optional Payment which the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Vested Retirement Allowance is paid from the Retirement Plan; and 
    
  (ii)  that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Allowance shall be distributed to the Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(i) of the Plan. 
    
  (2)        If any Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable in a Single Sum Payment is paid after the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Retired Employee Separates from Service, interest shall be credited on such amount from the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Retired Employee Separates from Service to the last day of the month preceding the month in which payment is made. Interest will be credited at the applicable federal short-term rate under Code section 1274(d), applying monthly compounding, as in effect for the month immediately preceding the month of payment. 
    
  (3)        (a)    A Grandfathered Retired Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant who is eligible to retire on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance at his Separation from Service may make application to the Administrator to receive an Optional Payment with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance allocable to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in lieu of the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable after his Date of Retirement.  The application for an Optional Payment shall specify: 
    
  (i)        the form in which such Optional Payment is to be paid; 
    
  (ii)        the Beneficiary, if any, who will receive benefits after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee; and 
    
           (iii) 
    the BEP Benefit Commencement Date. 
       
  (b)  In the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee who eighteen (18) months prior to attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years could be compulsorily retired by his Participating Company upon attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years pursuant to Section 12(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any application for an Optional Payment must be filed with the Administrator more than one (1) year preceding the date the Grandfathered Retired Employee attains the age of sixty-five (65) years. 
    
  (c)  The Administrator may grant or deny any such application in its sole and absolute discretion. Except as provided in Subparagraphs (d)(i) and (f) of this ARTICLE IIE, a Grandfathered Retired Employee shall not receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in the form of a Single Sum Payment after the Administrator has 
    
    26 

granted the Grandfathered Retired Employee application for an Optional Payment. In the event the Grandfathered Retired Employee incurs a Change in Circumstance on or after the date of the filing of the application for an Optional Payment and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, the Grandfathered Retired Employee may file an application with the Administrator within ninety (90) days of the Change in Circumstance, but in no event later than his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, to change the form of Optional Payment, or to change the Beneficiary who is to receive a benefit after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee in accordance with the Optional Payment method originally filed with the Administrator. 
    
           (d) 
    An application for an Optional Payment shall be of no force and effect if: 
       
  (i)  the Grandfathered Retired Employee does not retire on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance; 
    
  (ii)  the Grandfathered Retired Employee incurs a disability at any time before the date his Optional Payment commences to be made which causes him to be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees; or 
    
  (iii)  the Grandfathered Retired Employee is retired for ill health or disability under Paragraph S2.03(b) of Part II of the Retirement Plan. 
    
  (e)  In the event the application for an Optional Payment is of no force and effect as a result of an event described in clauses (ii) or (iii) of ARTICLE IIE(3)(d) of the Plan, payment of that portion of the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be made in a Single Sum Payment pursuant to ARTICLE I(k)(1) of the Plan on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date, but otherwise such application for an Optional Payment shall be effective on the Grandfathered Retired Employee s Date of Retirement on a Full, Deferred or Early Retirement Allowance and the Grandfathered Retired Employee s benefits shall commence on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(ii)(A) of the Plan; provided, however, that if within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of the application with the Administrator the Grandfathered Retired Employee voluntarily retires or his employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Administrator) by any member of the Controlled Group, the Optional Payment shall be reduced by one percent (1%) for each month (or portion of a month) by which the month in which the Grandfathered Retired Employee s termination of employment precedes the first anniversary of the filing of the application with the Administrator and his benefits shall commence in the BEP Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(1)(ii)(B) of the Plan. 
    
  (f)  If a Grandfathered Retired Employee whose request for an Optional Payment in the form of a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance has been granted by the Administrator dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date, his Beneficiary shall be eligible to receive 

27 

that portion of the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Optional Payment Allowance elected by the Grandfathered Retired Employee which is payable after the death of the Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
           (g) 
    Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Paragraph E, 
       
  (i)        the Administrator may cause the distribution of that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance to any group of similarly situated Grandfathered Retired Employees (or their Spouses or other Beneficiaries) in a Single Sum Payment or as an Optional Payment; and 
    
  (ii)        the Administrator shall distribute that portion of an Employee s Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance in a Single Sum Payment if such portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance payable in equal monthly payments is not more than $250 per month. 
    
  (4)        The Benefit Equalization  Survivor  Allowance  payable  pursuant  to ARTICLE IIA(2)(a) and ARTICLE IIC(2) of the Plan shall be paid in a Single Sum Payment on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(3)(i)(A) provided, however, that the portion of the Benefit Equalization Survivor Allowance that is derived from the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance shall be paid on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date described in ARTICLE I(k)(3)(i)(B). 
    
           F. 
    Commencement and termination of Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowances: 
       
  (1)        The Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable pursuant to ARTICLE IIB(1) of the Plan shall be distributed to the Retired Employee in a Single Sum Payment on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date, unless, solely in the case of a Grandfathered Retired Employee, the Administrator has approved his election to have distribution of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance made in accordance with ARTICLE IIF(3) of the Plan. 
    
  (2)        If an Employee or Retired Employee dies before his Single Sum Payment has been paid and without having the approval by the Administrator for payment of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of an Optional Payment, the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable to the Employee or Retired Employee shall be paid to his Beneficiary on the Payment Date, but not later than the Latest Payment Date. 
    
  (3)        If any Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance payable in a Single Sum Payment is paid after the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Retired Employee Separates from Service, interest shall be credited on such amount from the first day of the third calendar month following the month in which the Retired Employee Separates from Service to the last day of the month preceding the month in which payment is 

28 

made. Interest will be credited at the applicable federal short-term rate under Code section 1274(d), applying monthly compounding, as in effect for the month immediately preceding the month of payment. 
    
  (4)        (a)    A Grandfathered Employee who is a Secular Trust Participant may make an application to the Administrator to receive an Optional Payment with respect to that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in lieu of the Single Sum Payment otherwise payable to him on the Benefit Commencement Date specified in ARTICLE I(k)(2) after he becomes a Grandfathered Retired Employee. The application for an Optional Payment shall specify: 
    
  (i)        the form in which such Optional Payment is to be paid; and 
    
  (ii)        the Beneficiary who will receive the balance of that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance after the death of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
  (b)  In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who eighteen (18) months prior to attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years could be compulsorily retired by his Participating Company upon attaining the age of sixty-five (65) years pursuant to Section 12(c) of the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, any application for an Optional Payment must be filed with the Administrator more than one (1) year preceding the date the Grandfathered Employee attains the age of sixty-five (65) years. 
    
  (c)  The Administrator may grant or deny any such application in its sole and absolute discretion.  A Grandfathered Employee shall not receive that portion of his Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in the form of a Single Sum Payment after the Administrator has granted the Grandfathered Employee s application for an Optional Payment.  In the event the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee has elected to receive his Optional Payment over the joint life expectancies of he and his Beneficiary and incurs a Change in Circumstance described in ARTICLE I(l)(ii), ARTICLE I(l)(iii), or ARTICLE I(l)(iv) of the Plan on or after the date of the filing of the application and prior to the date his Optional Payment commences to be paid, the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee may file an application with the Administrator within ninety (90) days of the Change in Circumstance, but in no event later than the date his Optional Payment is scheduled to commence to be paid to designate a new Beneficiary or elect to receive his Optional Payment over the life expectancy of the Grandfathered Employee or Grandfathered Retired Employee. 
    
  (d)  If within the one (1) year period following the date of the filing of the application for an Optional Payment with the Administrator, the Grandfathered Employee voluntarily retires (other than for ill health or disability under Paragraph S2.03(b) of Part 
    
    29 

II of the Retirement Plan), voluntarily terminates his employment with his Participating Company (other than for a disability which causes him to be eligible for benefits under the Long-Term Disability Plan for Salaried Employees), or his employment is terminated for misconduct (as determined by the Administrator) by any member of the Controlled Group, the Optional Payment shall be reduced in the same manner as specified in ARTICLE IIE(3)(e) hereof. 
    
  (e)  If a Grandfathered Retired Employee dies after he Separates from Service and prior to the date his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is paid or commences to be paid, payment shall be made to his Beneficiary commencing in the form and on the date specified in the application. 
    
           (5) 
    Notwithstanding the preceding provisions of this Paragraph F: 
       
  (a)  the Administrator may cause the distribution of that portion of the Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance to any group of similarly situated Beneficiaries in a Single Sum Payment or as an Optional Payment; and 
    
  (b)  the Administrator shall distribute a Grandfathered Employee s or Grandfathered Retired Employee s Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in a Single Sum Payment if the value of such Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance is not more than $10,000. 
    
  (c)  The Administrator may accelerate the payment of all or any portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance (other than the Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance of a Grandfathered Employee) to an individual other than the Retired Employee to the extent necessary to fulfill a domestic relations order (as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code). 
    
           G. 
    Application or Notification for Payment of Allowances: 
       
  An application for retirement pursuant to Paragraph G2.07 of Part I and Paragraph S2.07 of Part II of the Retirement Plan shall be deemed notification to the Administrator of the BEP Benefit Commencement Date of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance (or other benefit) in accordance with the terms of this Plan. In the event a Grandfathered Employee shall not have elected an Optional Payment method with respect to his Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, any such notification shall specify the Beneficiary to whom payment of the Single Sum Payment shall be made in the event the Employee dies after his Date of Retirement and prior to his BEP Benefit Commencement Date. 
    
  An Employee or Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) shall make application to the Administrator (or his delegate) for distribution of Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance under this Plan. 
    
    30 

Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Paragraph G, payment shall be made on the BEP Benefit Commencement Date applicable to the Employee or former Employee, regardless of whether an application is or is not filed. 
    
           H. 
    Allocation of Payments: 
       
  (1)        The Administrator may use any reasonable method, as determined in his sole discretion, to designate amounts paid under the Plan to a TP Employee (or Spouse or other Beneficiary) as a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance (other than that portion that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance) and Benefit Equalization Profit- Sharing Allowance (other than that portion that is the Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit- Sharing Allowance) and to allocate benefits among the plans, programs and arrangements that constitute the Plan as described herein. 
    
  (2)        The Administrator may make payment of all or a portion of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance to an individual other than the Retired Employee to the extent necessary to fulfill a domestic relations order (as defined in Section 414(p)(1)(B) of the Code) and the amount of the Allowance payable to the Retired Employee shall be reduced to the extent necessary to reflect such payment. 
    
    31 

ARTICLE III 
    
  FUNDS FROM WHICH ALLOWANCES ARE PAYABLE 
    
  Individual accounts shall be established for the benefit of each Employee and Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) under the Plan. Any benefits payable from an individual account shall be payable solely to the Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) for whom such account was established. The Plan shall be unfunded. All benefits intended to be provided under the Plan shall be paid from time to time from the general assets of the Employee s or Retired Employee s Participating Company and paid in accordance with the provisions of the Plan; provided, however, that the Participating Companies reserve the right to meet the obligations created under the Plan through one or more trusts or other agreements. In no event shall any such trust or trusts be outside of the United States. The contributions by each Participating Company on behalf of its Employees and Retired Employees to the individual accounts established pursuant to the provisions of the Plan, whether in trust or otherwise, shall be in an amount which such Participating Company, with the advice of an actuary, determines to be sufficient to provide for the payment of the benefits under the Plan. 
    
    32 

ARTICLE IV 
    
  THE ADMINISTRATOR AND MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE 
    
  The general administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Administrator. 
    
  All powers, rights, duties and responsibilities assigned to the Administrator and the Management Committee under the Retirement Plan applicable to this Plan shall be the powers, rights, duties and responsibilities of the Administrator and the Management Committee under the terms of this Plan, except that the Administrator and Management Committee shall not be a fiduciary (within the meaning of Section 3(21) of ERISA) with respect to any portion or all of the Plan which is intended to be exempt from the requirements of ERISA pursuant to Section 4(b)(5) of ERISA or which is described in Section 401(a)(1) of ERISA and exempt from the requirements of  Part 4 of Title I of ERISA. 
    
    33 

ARTICLE V 
    
  AMENDMENT AND 
  DISCONTINUANCE OF THE PLAN 
    
  The Board may, from time to time, and at any time, amend the Plan; provided, however, that authority to amend the Plan is delegated to the following committees or individuals where approval of the Plan amendment or amendments by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. is not required: (1) to the Corporate Employee Benefit Committee, if the amendment (or amendments) will not increase the annual cost of the Plan by $10,000,000 and (2) to the Administrator, if the amendment (or amendments) will not increase the annual cost of the Plan by $500,000. 
    
  Any amendment to the Plan may effect a substantial change in the Plan and may include (but shall not be limited to) any change deemed by the Company to be necessary or desirable to obtain tax benefits under any existing or future laws or rules or regulations thereunder; provided, however, that no such amendment shall deprive any Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) of any Allowances accrued at the time of such amendment. 
    
  The Plan may be discontinued at any time by the Board; provided, however, that such discontinuance shall not deprive any Employee, Retired Employee (or Beneficiary) of any Allowances accrued at the time of such discontinuance. 
    
    34 

ARTICLE VI 
    
  FORMS; COMMUNICATIONS 
    
  The Administrator shall provide such appropriate forms as it may deem expedient in the administration of the Plan and no action to be taken under the Plan (for which a form is so provided) shall be valid unless upon such form. Any Plan communication may be made by electronic medium to the extent allowed by applicable law. The Administrator may adopt reasonable procedures to enable an Employee or Retired Employee to make an election using electronic medium (including an interactive telephone system and a website on the Intranet). 
    
  All communications concerning the Plan shall be in writing addressed to the Administrator at such address as may from time to time be designated. No communication shall be effective for any purpose unless received by the Administrator. 
    
    35 

ARTICLE VII  
  INTERPRETATION OF PROVISIONS 
    
  The Administrator shall have the full power and authority to grant or deny requests for 
  payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance or Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance in accordance with a form of distribution authorized under the Retirement Plan and to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance in accordance with a form of distribution authorized under the Profit-Sharing Plan to the extent permitted under Section 409A of the Code. The Management Committee for Employee Benefits shall have the full power and authority to grant or deny requests for payment of a Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance or Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance by the Administrator. 
    
  The Administrator shall have full power and authority with respect to all other matters arising in the administration, interpretation and application of the Plan, including discretionary authority to construe plan terms and provisions, to determine all questions that arise under the Plan such as the eligibility of any employee of a Participating Company to participate under the Plan; to determine the amount of any benefit to which any person is entitled to under the Plan; to make factual determinations and to remedy any ambiguities, inconsistencies or omissions of any kind. 
    
  The Plan is intended to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A of the Code. Accordingly, where applicable, this Plan shall at all times be construed and administered in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and applicable regulations without any diminution in the value of benefits. 
    
    36 

ARTICLE VIII 
    
  CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS 
    
           A. 
    In the event of a Change in Control, each Employee shall be fully vested in his Allowances and any other benefits accrued through the date of the Change in Control ( Accrued Benefits ). Each Employee (or his Beneficiary) shall, upon the Change in Control, be entitled to a lump sum in cash, payable within thirty (30) days of the Change in Control, equal to the Actuarial Equivalent of his Accrued Benefits, determined using actuarial assumptions no less favorable than those used under the Supplemental Management Employees  Retirement Plan immediately prior to the Change in Control. 
       
           B. 
    Definition of Change in Control. 
       
  (1)   Change in Control  shall mean the happening of any of the following events with respect to a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance: 
    
  (a)  The acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and amended (the  Exchange Act )) (a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d- 3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Outstanding Company Common Stock ) or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of Altria Group, Inc. entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Company Voting Securities  provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (i) any acquisition directly from Altria Group, Inc., (ii) any acquisition by Altria Group, Inc., (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by Altria Group, Inc. or any corporation controlled by Altria Group, Inc. or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction described in clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (3) of this Section B; or 
    
  (b)  Individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board (the  Incumbent Board ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by Altria Group, Inc. s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; or 
    
  (c)  Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of a reorganization, merger, share exchange or consolidation (a  Business Combination ), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company 
    
    37 

Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns Altria Group, Inc. through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or 
    
  (d)  Approval by the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. of (i) a complete liquidation or dissolution of Altria Group, Inc. or (ii) the sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of Altria Group, Inc., other than to a corporation, with respect to which following such sale or other disposition, (A) more than 80% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such sale or other disposition in substantially the same proportion as their ownership, immediately prior to such sale or other disposition, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) less than 20% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of such corporation and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors is then beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of Altria Group, Inc. or such corporation), except to the extent that such Person owned 20% or more of the Outstanding Company Common Stock or Outstanding Company Voting Securities prior to the sale or disposition and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of such corporation were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such sale or other disposition of assets of Altria Group, Inc. or were elected, appointed or nominated by the Board. 
    
  (2)   Change in Control  shall mean the happening of any of the events specified in Treasury  Regulation  Section  1.409A-  3(i)(5)(v),  (vi)  and  (vii)  with  respect  to  a  Benefit 
    
    38 

Equalization Retirement Allowance, Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Retirement Allowance and that portion of a Benefit Equalization Combined Allowance that is not a Grandfathered Benefit Equalization Profit-Sharing Allowance. For purposes of determining if a Change in Control has occurred, the Change in Control event must relate to a corporation identified in Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A- 3(i)(5)(ii), provided, however, that (i) the spin-off of the shares of Philip Morris International Inc. to the shareholders of Altria Group, Inc. shall not be considered to be a Change in Control and (ii) any change in the Incumbent Board coincident with such spin-off shall not be considered to be a Change in Control. 
    
    39 

EXHIBIT A 
    
  ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE A SINGLE SUM PAYMENT 
    
  The applicable interest rate for determining a Single Sum Payment shall be the three-tiered segment rates under Section 417(e)(3)(C) of the Code, taking the average of such rates in effect for each of the 24 months preceding the Employee s Date of Retirement, less   of 1%. The applicable mortality table for determining a Single Sum Payment shall be the mortality table specified in Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Code. 
    
  ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS USED TO CALCULATE A SINGLE SUM PAYMENT UNDER UST PLANS 
    
  The applicable mortality table and interest rate for determining a Single Sum Payment with respect to the UST Plans shall be the mortality table prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury under Section 417(e)(3)(B) of the Code, as in effect on the date the Participant terminates employment, and the annual rate of interest on 30-year Treasury Securities as specified by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue for the second full month preceding the month in which the Participant Separates from Service. 
    
    40 

APPENDIX 1 
    
  TP EMPLOYEES 

41 

APPENDIX 2 
    
  TAX ASSUMPTIONS 
    
  Federal income tax rate  : The highest marginal Federal income tax rate as adjusted for the Federal deduction of state and local taxes and the phase out of Federal deductions under current law (or as adjusted under any subsequently enacted similar provisions of the Internal Revenue Code). 
    
  State income tax rate  :    Except with respect to additional benefits attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest adjusted marginal state income tax rate based on a Grandfathered Employee s state of residence on the date of the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service. With respect to those additional benefits that are attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest marginal state income tax rate based on the state in which the Grandfathered Employee is or was employed by a Participating Company on the date of his Separation from Service. 
    
  Local income tax rate  :    Except with respect to additional benefits attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest adjusted marginal local income tax rate (taking into account the Grandfathered Employee s resident or nonresident status) based on the Grandfathered Employee s locality of residence on the date of the Grandfathered Employee s Separation from Service. With respect to those additional benefits that are attributable to the provisions of a Grandfathered Employee s Designation of Participation, the highest marginal state income tax rate (taking into account the Grandfathered Employee s resident or nonresident status) based on the locality in which the Grandfathered Employee is or was employed by a Participating Company on the date of his Separation from Service. 
    
  Exception  :    In the case of a Grandfathered Employee who is an expatriate actively employed by a Participating Company and subject to United States taxation for all purposes, income taxes shall generally be computed as follows: Expatriate taxes will be calculated assuming the highest marginal Federal income tax rate as adjusted for the Federal deduction of state and local taxes and the phase-out of Federal deductions under current law (or as adjusted under any subsequently enacted similar provisions of the Code). The applicable state and local tax rates will be adjusted to reflect a Grandfathered Employee s expatriate status to the extent appropriate. 
    
  Capital gains  : The ordinary income or capital gains character of items of trust investment income or deemed investment income shall be taken into account as relevant. 
    
  The above principles shall generally be applied in determining tax-rate assumptions for the relevant purpose, but the Administrator shall have the authority in its discretion to alter the assumptions made as deemed appropriate to take into account particular facts and circumstances. 
    
    42 

APPENDIX 3 
    
  CALCULATION OF BENEFIT 
  EXECUTIVE TRUST ARRANGEMENT PARTICIPANT 
    
  1.  Calculate Pension benefit payable in form of single life annuity as of Normal Retirement Date, based on benefit earned to: 

Date of retirement/termination 
       
  2.  As of each of the above three dates allocate benefits between the qualified plan and the BEP 
           a. 
    Determine Qualified Plan Benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date 
              b. 
    Determine entire (Unlimited) benefit payable at Normal Retirement Date 
              c. 
    Determine portion payable from BEP (Subtract 2a from 2b) 
              d. 
    Apply early retirement factor 

For terminations on or after age 55, use expected retirement age 

Use early retirement factor for Grandfathered Benefit based on age on 12/31/04 
       
           e. 
    Determine BEP benefit at Benefit Commencement Date 

For terminations on or after age 55, use expected retirement age 
       
           3. 
    Calculate  top-up  payment for Grandfathered Benefits from funding account 
     a.  Determine applicable early retirement factor (using employee s age on 12/31/04 and assuming, in the case of an employee under age 55 at termination, that he/she will elect to receive benefits at age 55 
  b.  Calculate Grandfathered Benefit with early retirement factor growth (each Item 1 times 3a). 
           c. 
    Calculate lump sum value payable at age 55 on a before-tax and after-tax basis 
     d.  Ascertain  Grandfathered  Deferred  Profit-Sharing  BEP  balance  (deemed  to  be distributed at termination of employment) 
             
    Use balance as of most recent year end 

Add any contributions (Company and Company-Match), plus earnings 

Ascertain after-tax value 
       
           e. 
    Calculate  top-up  payment for Grandfathered Benefit from funding account 
     i.  Ascertain  estimated  funding  account  balance  at  termination  of employment (after-tax) 
  ii.  Subtract funding account assets used to satisfy Grandfathered DPS BEP (Item 3d) 
    
    43 

iii.  Determine   if   any   top-up    payment   needed   to   satisfy  any remaining Grandfathered DPS BEP liability (after-tax) 
  iv.  Balance  of  any  funding  account  assets  to  be  used  for  future Grandfathered Pension BEP (assumed to be at age 55) 
           v. 
    Balance as of date of termination and projected to age 55 
              vi. 
    Determined on pre-tax and after-tax basis 
                
    Ascertain pre-tax and after-tax lump sum value of Grandfathered Pension BEP at age 55 

Subtract 3(e)(iv) (after-tax) from 3c (after-tax) 
       
             ii. 
    As of date of termination 
              iii. 
    Compute as annuity and pre-tax and after-tax lump sum values 
     a.  Estimate Post 2004 DPS BEP Account as of date of termination 
  i.  Total   hypothetical   BEP   DPS   contributions   made   via   target payments in 2006, 2007 and 2008 and add earnings 
           ii. 
    Convert to after-tax amount 
     iii.  Add post-target payment DPS BEP contributions and convert to after-tax amount 
  iv.  Total  4(a)(ii)  and  4(a)(iii)  to  determine  Post  2004  DPS  BEP Account 
  b.  Determine total Post 2004 BEP Pension and DPS Plan Benefit as of date of termination for  top-up  payment 
  i.        Sum of 4(ii) and 4(a)(iv) equals 4(b) 
           ii. 
    Ascertain estimated target payment account balance (after-tax) 
     iii.        Subtract  4(b)(ii)  from  4(b)(i)  to  ascertain  estimated   top-up  payment 
    
    44 

EXECUTIVE TRUST ARRANGEMENT 
  Your Estimated Retirement Benefits Under the BEP 
  Assuming Projected Plan Interest Rate and Current Federal Tax Rate (35%) 
                       Name: 

Assumed Retirement Date: 
          
      Date of Birth: 

Assumed Retirement Age: 
          
      Date of Hire: 

Final Average Earnings: 
          
      Normal Retirement Age: 

1. 
    Your Estimated Retirement Benefits at your Assumed Retirement Age: 
                      Your   total   pension benefit is determined at your Normal Retirement Age (Age 65), without regard to any IRS limits.  Your benefits are pre-tax amounts. 
        
    Annual Annuities 
      1a.) 
    Total Pension Benefit unreduced for early commencement 
    $      

Your Retirement Plan (i.e., tax qualified pension plan) benefit is determined reflecting IRS limits 
      
      1b.) 
    Retirement Plan Benefit at age 65 
    $      

The difference between your total pension benefit and your Retirement Plan benefit 
      
      1c.) 
    Total BEP Pension Benefit at age 65 = 1a.) - 1b.) 
    $      

If you retire at the Assumed Retirement Age, your benefits may be reduced for early commencement 
      
      1d.) 
    Adjustment for early benefit commencement 
         % 
      1e.) 
    Total BEP Pension Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age = 1c.) x 1d.) 
    $      

2. 
    Your Estimated Grandfathered BEP Benefits 
       
                         Your Grandfathered BEP Benefits were accrued as of 12/31/2004 prior to a law change and are only payable as a lump sum.  The annuity is shown for illustrative purposes only.  Your Funding Payment account balance offsets the after-tax value of your Grandfathered BEP Benefits. 

Annual Annuities 
    Lump Sums 

Pre-tax 
    After-tax 
      
      2f.) 
    Grandfathered BEP Pension Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age 
    $         
    $         
    $        
      
      2g.) 
    Grandfathered BEP DPS Balance - reflects estimated earnings through your Assumed Retirement Date 
          
    $         
    $          
      
      In order to compare your benefits to the amounts that you have already received, your total Grandfathered BEP benefit is shown only as an after-tax amount. 

2h.) 
    Total Grandfathered BEP Benefit = 2f.) + 2g.) 

$        

If you have a trust, your Funding Payment trust account balance will be distributed to you after your termination of employment. 

2i.) 
    Estimated Funding Payment Asset Balance at Assumed Retirement Age 

$        

The difference between your after-tax Grandfathered BEP Benefit and your Funding Payment Asset Balance will be paid to you from Company assets.  This payment will include an amount to cover the taxes that you will owe on the payment. 
      
    ` 

2j.) 
    Estimated Grandfathered BEP Payment at Assumed Retirement Age = 2h.) - 2i.) 
      
    $         
    $ 

45 

3. 
    Your Estimated BEP Benefits 
       
                       Your Ongoing BEP Benefits reflect all of your service for pension purposes and DPS contributions for service after 12/31/2004 but also take into account the amounts paid to you as Target Payments.  These benefits are offset by your Grandfathered BEP Benefits.  This amount is only payable as a lump sum.  The annuity is shown for illustrative purposes only. 

Annual Annuities 
    Lump Sums 

Pre-tax 
    After-tax 
      3k.) 
    Ongoing BEP Pension Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age = 1e.) - 2f.) 
    $        
    $       
    $         
      3l.) 
    Ongoing BEP DPS Balance for Post-2004 Accruals - reflects estimated earnings and contributions through your Assumed Retirement Date (includes amounts in your Target Payments received in lieu of BEP DPS contributions) 
          
    $          
    $           

In order to compare this amount to your Target Payments, it is shown only as an after-tax amount. 

3m.) 
    Total = 3k.) + 3l.) 

$      

If you have a trust, your Target Payment trust account balance will be distributed to you after your termination of employment. 

3n.) 
    Estimated Target Payment Asset Balance at Assumed Retirement Age 

$         

The difference between your after-tax Total and your Target Payment Asset Balance will be your Ongoing BEP Benefit, which will be paid to you from Company assets.  This payment will include an amount to cover the taxes that you will owe on the payment. 

3o.) 
    Estimated Ongoing BEP Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age = 3m.) - 3n.) 
      
    $       
    $         

46 

4. Your Estimated Total Payments 
                     Your estimated total Company Payment includes the sum of your Grandfathered BEP Payment and your Ongoing BEP Benefit. 
    Lump Sums 

Pre-tax 
    After-tax 
      4p.) 
    Estimated Total Company Payment = 2j.) + 3o.) 
    $      
    $      

If you have a trust, you will also receive a distribution of your trust account balances after your termination of employment.  Since you paid taxes on the payments when they were deposited into your trust, your trust balances are on an after-tax basis. 

4q.) 
    Estimated Asset Balance at Assumed Retirement Date = 2i.) + 3n.)    [Note: Only your trust balances, if any, will be distributed to you.  Any assumed assets that are included in this amount will not be distributed to you.] 
      
    $      

So, the total amount after taxes for retirement is 4p.) + 4q.) 
      
    $      

Assumptions  : 
        
    Actual monthly pay history through [date] as provided by Altria.  Current 2011 base rate is equal to $      and is assumed to be constant for the remainder of the projection period.  Actual IC earned in 2010 and paid in 2011 is $      as provided by Altria.  IC is projected to remain constant each February during the projection period. 
        
    Estimated lump sum value of the grandfathered BEP benefit is based on the greater of: (1) the lump sum value based on interest rates projected to the assumed retirement date assuming current corporate bonds remain level in future months (seg rate 1/ seg rate 2/ seg rate 3) reflecting the 50 basis point reduction in published rates using Altria's current BEP lump sum basis, and (2) the lump sum value based on the 12/31/2004 lump sum basis including an interest rate of 4.4842%.  The lump sum value of the grandfathered BEP benefit reflects the basis as described in (1).  The lump sum for ongoing BEP benefits reflects the basis as described in (1).  Caution should be used when evaluating lump sums and understand that they could be significantly higher or lower depending on movements in the capital markets. 
        
    Actual BEP DPS balance as of [date] with 6% annual rate of return on BEP DPS contributions to assumed retirement date. 
        
    Actual ETA asset balances as of [date] with 3% annual after-tax rate of return to assumed retirement date. 
        
    Future BEP DPS contribution rate = 15%. 
        
    Tax rate = 38.74%.  Your pre-tax Total Company Payment at your actual retirement date will be subject to the income tax withholding rates in effect at that time, as well as the applicable FICA tax rates which are scheduled to increase by 0.9% in 2013. 

Note  :   
      Estimated benefits and payments are determined based on the assumptions described above.  Actual results may vary based on actual experience.   
  Does not constitute a guarantee of employment.  The Company reserves the right to change the plans and programs in the future. 

October 2011 
    47 

SECULAR TRUST PROGRAM 
  Your Estimated Retirement Benefits Under the BEP 
  Assuming Projected Plan Interest Rate and Current Federal Tax Rate (35%) 
    
                       Name: 

Assumed Retirement Date: 
          
      Date of Birth: 

Assumed Retirement Age: 
          
      Date of Hire: 

Final Average Earnings: 
          
      Normal Retirement Age: 

1.  Your Estimated Retirement Benefits at your Assumed Retirement Age: 
                   Your   total   pension benefit is determined at your Normal Retirement Age (Age 65), without regard to any IRS limits.  Your benefits are pre-tax amounts. 
    Annual Annuities 
      1a.) 
    Total Pension Benefit unreduced for early commencement 
    $      

Your Retirement Plan (i.e., tax qualified pension plan) benefit is determined reflecting IRS limits 
      
      1b.) 
    Retirement Plan Benefit at age 65 
    $      

The difference between your total pension benefit and your Retirement Plan benefit 
      
      1c.) 
    Total BEP Pension Benefit at age 65 = 1a.) - 1b.) 
    $      

If you retire at the Assumed Retirement Age, your benefits may be reduced for early commencement 
      
      1d.) 
    Adjustment for early benefit commencement 
         % 
      1e.) 
    Total BEP Pension Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age = 1c.) x 1d.) 
    $      

2. Your Estimated Grandfathered BEP Benefits 
    
                       Your Grandfathered BEP Benefits were accrued as of 12/31/2004 prior to a law change and are payable as either a lump sum or monthly annuity.  For purposes of this illustration, it is assumed that you will take a lump sum of your Grandfathered BEP benefits.  Your Funding Payment account balance offsets the after-tax value of your Grandfathered BEP Benefits. 

Annual Annuities 
    Lump Sums 

Pre-tax 
    After-tax 
      2f.) 
    Grandfathered BEP Pension Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age 
    $        
    $        
    $        
      2g.) 
    Grandfathered BEP DPS Balance - reflects estimated earnings through your Assumed Retirement Date 
          
    $           
    $           
      In order to compare your benefits to the amounts that you have already received, your total Grandfathered BEP benefit is shown only as an after-tax amount. 

2h.) 
    Total Grandfathered BEP Benefit = 2f.) + 2g.) 

$        

If you have a trust, your Funding Payment trust account balance will be distributed to you after your termination of employment. 

2i.) 
    Estimated Funding Payment Asset Balance at Assumed Retirement Age 

$           

The difference between your after-tax Grandfathered BEP Benefit and your Funding Payment Asset Balance will be paid to you from Company assets.  This payment will include an amount to cover the taxes that you will owe on the payment. 

2j.) 
    Estimated Grandfathered BEP Payment at Assumed Retirement Age = 2h.) - 2i.) 
      
    $        
    $           

48 

3.   Your Estimated BEP Benefits 
    
                       Your Ongoing BEP Benefits reflect all of your service for pension purposes and DPS contributions for service after 12/31/2004 but also take into account the amounts paid to you as Target Payments.  These benefits are offset by your Grandfathered BEP Benefits.  This amount is only payable as a lump sum.  The annuity is shown for illustrative purposes only. 

Annual Annuities 
    Lump Sums 

Pre-tax 
    After-tax 
      3k.) 
    Ongoing BEP Pension Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age = 1e.) - 2f.) 
    $        
    $       
    $        
      3l.) 
    Ongoing BEP DPS Balance for Post-2004 Accruals - reflects estimated earnings and contributions through your Assumed Retirement Date (includes amounts in your Target Payments received in lieu of BEP DPS contributions) 
          
    $       
    $           
      In order to compare this amount to your Target Payments, it is shown only as an after-tax amount. 

3m.) 
    Total = 3k.) + 3l.) 

$        

If you have a trust, your Target Payment trust account balance will be distributed to you after your termination of employment. 

3n.) 
    Estimated Target Payment Asset Balance at Assumed Retirement Age 

$        

The difference between your after-tax Total and your Target Payment Asset Balance will be your Ongoing BEP Benefit, which will be paid to you from Company assets.  This payment will include an amount to cover the taxes that you will owe on the payment. 

3o.) 
    Estimated Ongoing BEP Benefit at Assumed Retirement Age = 3m.) - 3n.) 
      
    $       
    $        

49 

4. Your Estimated Total Payments 

Your estimated total Company Payment includes the sum of your Grandfathered BEP Payment and your Ongoing BEP Benefit 

Lump Sums 
        
    Pre-tax 
    After-tax 
      4p.)  Estimated Total Company Payment-2j.) + 3o.) 
    $      
    $      

If you have a trust, you will also receive a distribution of your trust account balances after your termination of employment.  Since you paid taxes on the payments when they were deposited into your trust, your trust balances are on an after-tax basis. 

4q.)  Estimated Asset Balance at Assumed Retirement Date = 2i.) + 3n.)    [Note:  Only your trust balances, if any, will be distributed to you.  Any assumed assets that are included in this amount will not be distributed to you.] 
      
    $      

So, the total amount after taxes for retirement is 4p.) + 4q.) 
      
    $      

Assumptions  :   
        
    No future salary increases.  Reflects limited IC for certain years as applicable. 
        
    Estimated lump sum value of the grandfathered BEP benefit is based on the greater of: (1) the lump sum value based on interest rates projected to the assumed retirement date assuming current corporate bonds remain level in future months (seg rate 1 / seg rate 2 / seg rate 3) reflecting the 50 basis point reduction in published rates using Altria's current BEP lump sum basis, and (2) the lump sum value based on the 12/31/2004 lump sum basis including an interest rate of 4.4842%.  The lump sum value of the grandfathered BEP benefit reflects the basis as described in (2).  The lump sum for ongoing BEP benefits reflects the estimated value of annuity purchase. 
        
    Actual BEP DPS balance as of [date] with 6% annual rate of return on BEP DPS contributions for the remainder of 2010 and beyond. 
        
    Actual Secular Trust asset balances as of [date] with 3% annual year after-tax rate of return for the remainder of 2010 and beyond. 
        
    Future BEP DPS contribution rate = 15%. 
        
    Tax rate = 38.74%.  Your pre-tax Total Company Payment at your actual retirement date will be subject to the income tax withholding rates in effect at that time, as well as the applicable FICA tax rates which are scheduled to increase by 0.9% in 2013. 

Note  :   
      Estimated benefits and payments are determined based on the assumptions described above.  Actual results may vary based on actual experience.   
  Does not constitute a guarantee of employment.  The Company reserves the right to change the plans and programs in the future. 

October 2011 
    
    50 

</EX-10.19>

<EX-12>
 3
 exhibit12computationofrati.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Exhibit 12 Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges (Q4 2014)  

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 4
 exhibit21altriagroupincsub.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF ALTRIA GROUP, INC.

Exhibit 21 Altria Group, Inc. Subsidiaries (2014 10-K) 

Exhibit 21 
  ALTRIA GROUP, INC. SUBSIDIARIES 
       
  Certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2014 and their respective state of incorporation or organization are listed below.  The names of certain other subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of December 31, 2014, a  significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X.                         
    Name 
      
    State of Incorporation or   Organization 

Philip Morris USA Inc. 
      
    Virginia 

U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC 
      
    Virginia 

UST LLC 
      
    Virginia 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 exhibit23consentofindepend.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 23 Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (2014 10-K)  

Exhibit 23  
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 13 to the Registration Statement on Form S-14 (File No. 2-96149) and in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-199694) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-28631, 33-10218, 33-13210, 33-14561, 33-48781, 33-59109, 333-43478, 333-43484, 333-128494, 333-139523, 333-148070, 333-156188, 333-167516 and 333-170185), of our report dated January 30, 2015 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Altria Group, Inc., which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
  Richmond, Virginia  
  February 25, 2015  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 exhibit24powersofattorney2.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit 24 Powers of Attorney (2014 10-K) 

Exhibit 24 
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ GERALD L. BALILES 
    Gerald L. Baliles 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ JOHN T. CASTEEN III 
    John T. Casteen III 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ DINYAR S. DEVITRE 
    Dinyar S. Devitre 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ THOMAS F. FARRELL II 
    Thomas F. Farrell II 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ THOMAS W. JONES 
    Thomas W. Jones 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set her hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ DEBRA J. KELLY-ENNIS 
    Debra J. Kelly-Ennis 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ W. LEO KIELY III 
    W. Leo Kiely III 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set her hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ KATHRYN B. MCQUADE 
    Kathryn B. McQuade 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ GEORGE MU OZ 
    George Mu oz 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, Howard A. Willard III, and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2014 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25   th    day of February, 2015. 

/s/ NABIL Y. SAKKAB 
    Nabil Y. Sakkab 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 exhibit311q42014.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Exhibit 31.1 (Q4 2014) 

Exhibit 31.1 
    
  Certifications 
    
  I, Martin J. Barrington, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  
       
  Date: February 25, 2015 

/s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 
        
    Martin J. Barrington 
        
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 exhibit312q42014.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Exhibit 31.2 (Q4 2014) 

Exhibit 31.2 
    
  Certifications 
    
  I, Howard A. Willard III, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  
       
  Date: February 25, 2015 
                   
    /s/ HOWARD A. WILLARD III 
        
    Howard A. Willard III 
        
    Executive Vice President and 
        
    Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 exhibit321q42014.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Exhibit 32.1 (Q4 2014) 

Exhibit 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2014   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Martin J. Barrington, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
    (1)        the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
    
    (2)        the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 
  Martin J. Barrington 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
  February 25, 2015  

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 exhibit322q42014.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Exhibit 32.2 (Q4 2014) 

Exhibit 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2014   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Howard A. Willard III, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
    (1)        the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
    
    (2)        the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ HOWARD A. WILLARD III 
  Howard A. Willard III 
  Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
  February 25, 2015 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 11
 exhibits991q42014.htm
 CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS

Exhibits 99.1 (Q4 2014) 

Exhibit 99.1 

CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS 
    
  As described in Item 3.   Legal Proceedings   in the Annual Report on Form 10-K to which this Exhibit 99.1 is attached ( Item 3 ) and in   Note 18  .   Contingencies   to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of such Annual Report on Form 10-K (   Note 18   ), there are legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc., its subsidiaries, including Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), and their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors or distributors.  Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud or statutory fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of warranty, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, (v) international cases, and (vi) other tobacco-related litigation. 
    
  The following lists certain of the pending claims against Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, UST LLC ( UST ) and/or UST s subsidiaries included in these categories. 
    
  SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION 
    
  The following lists the consolidated individual smoking and health cases as well as smoking and health class actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates, as of February 20, 2015.  See   International Cases   below for a list of smoking and health class actions pending in Canada. 
    
  Consolidated Individual Smoking and Health Case 
    
  In re: Tobacco Litigation (Individual Personal Injury cases), Circuit Court, Ohio County, West Virginia, consolidated January 11, 2000.    See     Note 18   for a discussion of this litigation. 
    
  Flight Attendant Litigation 
    
  The settlement agreement entered into in 1997 in the case of   Broin, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al.  , which was brought by flight attendants seeking damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by environmental tobacco smoke, allows members of the   Broin   class to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibits them from seeking punitive damages.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this litigation. 
    
  Domestic Class Actions 
    
  Engle, et al. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994.    See     Note 18   for a discussion of this case (which has concluded) and the   Engle   progeny litigation. 
    
  Young, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed November 12, 1997. 
    
  Parsons, et al. v. A C   S, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Kanawha County, West Virginia, filed February 27, 1998. 
    
  Cypret, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri, filed December 22, 1998. 
    
  Caronia, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., United States District Court, Eastern District, New York, filed January 13, 2006.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Donovan, et al. v. Philip Morris, United States District Court, District of Massachusetts, filed March 2, 2007.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    1 

HEALTH CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION 
    
  The following lists the health care cost recovery actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates as of February 20, 2015.  See   International Cases   below for a list of international health care cost recovery actions. 
    
  Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2013 and Other Disputes Related to MSA Payments 
    
  State of Idaho v. Philip Morris Inc., et al., District Court, Fourth Judicial District, Ada County, Idaho, filed June 5, 2013. 
  State of Indiana v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Marion County, Indiana, filed June 7, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
  Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Brown   Williamson Tobacco Corp., et al., Franklin Circuit Court, Division No. 1, Kentucky, filed June 10, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
  State of Maryland v. Philip Morris Inc et al., Circuit Court, Baltimore County, Maryland, filed March 26, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
  State of Missouri v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Twenty-Second Judicial Circuit, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed June 7, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
  State of New Mexico v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., First Judicial District, Santa Fe County, New Mexico, filed June 10, 2013. 
  State of New York v. Philip Morris Inc., et al., Supreme Court, New York County, New York, filed April 12, 2013. 
  State of North Dakota v. Philip Morris Incorporated, Inc., et al., East Central Judicial District, Cass County, North Dakota, filed June 7, 2013. 
  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, First Judicial District, Pennsylvania, filed April 3, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
  State of Wisconsin v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Branch 11, Dane County, Wisconsin, filed June 18, 2014. 
  District of Columbia v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Superior Court, District of Columbia, filed September 12, 2013. 
  Department of Justice Case 
    
  The United States of America v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
   LIGHTS/ULTRA LIGHTS  CASES 
    
  The following lists the  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries and others as of February 20, 2015.  
    
  Brown, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Superior Court, San Diego County, California, filed June 10, 1997.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    2 

Aspinall, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. and Philip Morris Incorporated, Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts, filed November 24, 1998  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Price, et al. v. Philip Morris Inc., Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois, filed February 10, 2000.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Larsen, et al. v. Philip Morris Inc.   (  formerly Craft, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al.), Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed February 14, 2000  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Hines, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida, filed February 23, 2001  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Moore, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Marshall County, West Virginia, filed September 17, 2001. 
    
  Pearson v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Multnomah County, Oregon, filed November 20, 2002  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Virden v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Hancock County, West Virginia, filed March 28, 2003. 
    
  Stern, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Middlesex County, New Jersey, filed April 4, 2003. 
    
  Arnold, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed May 5, 2003. 
    
  Miner, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al. (formerly Watson, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al.), Circuit Court, Pulaski County, Arkansas, filed May 29, 2003.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Carroll (formerly Holmes), et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed August 18, 2003.    See     Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Kelly v. Martin   Bayley, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed February 4, 2005.   This case is an individual  Lights  case, not a class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 

INTERNATIONAL CASES 
    
  The following lists cases pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions as of  
   February 20, 2015. 
    
  Canada 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada, filed January 24, 2001.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province of New Brunswick v. Rothmans, Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of New Brunswick Judicial District of Fredericton, Canada, filed March 13, 2008.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Dorion v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, Canada, filed on or about June 17, 2009  .  Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
  Semple v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, Canada, filed on or about June 18, 2009.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Kunta v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Manitoba, Winnipeg Judicial Centre, Canada, filed on an unknown date in June 2009  .  Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
    3 

Adams v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench for Saskatchewan, Judicial Centre of Regina, Canada, filed on or about July 10, 2009.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Superior Court of Justice of Ontario, Canada, filed on or about September 30, 2009.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Bourassa v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court of British Columbia, Victoria Registry, Canada, filed on or about June 25, 2010.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  McDermid v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court of British Columbia, Victoria Registry, Canada, filed on or about June 25, 2010.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Attorney General of Newfoundland and Labrador v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador, Trial Division, Canada, filed February 8, 2011  .  Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
  Attorney General of Quebec v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Superior Court of Quebec, Montreal District, Canada, filed June 8, 2012  .  Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty in Right of Alberta v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, Canada, filed June 8, 2012  .  Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in the Right of Manitoba v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Manitoba, Winnipeg Judicial Centre, Canada, filed May 31, 2012.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Saskatchewan v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Saskatchewan, Judicial Centre of Saskatoon, Canada, filed on June 8, 2012.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty in the Right of the Province of Prince Edward Island v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges, Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Prince Edward Island, filed on September 10, 2012.    Health care cost recovery action  .    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province of Nova Scotia v. Benson   Hedges, Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, filed on January 2, 2015.    Health care cost recovery action.  See Note 18 for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Jacklin v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council et al., Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Case No. 5379412, Ontario, Canada, filed on or about June 27, 2012.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  CERTAIN OTHER TOBACCO-RELATED ACTIONS 
    
  The following lists certain other tobacco-related litigation pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries as of  February 20, 2015.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of these cases. 
    
  Tobacco Price Case 
    
  Smith, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., District Court, Seward County, Kansas, filed February 9, 2000  . 
    
  Ignition Propensity Case 
    
  Walker, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Nelson County, Kentucky, filed February 1, 2008  . 
    
  False Claims Act Case 
    
  United States ex. rel. Anthony Oliver v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed under seal September 12, 2008 and unsealed by the district court on September 13, 2011. 
    
  Argentine Grower Cases 
    
    4 

Hupan, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on February 14, 2012. 
    
  Chalanuk, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on April 14, 2012. 
    
  Clarisa Rodriguez Da Silva, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on October 25, 2012. 
    
  Alfredo Aranda, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware filed on March 1, 2013. 
    
  Taborda, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc. et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware filed on August 9, 2013.  
    
  Biglia, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on January 1, 2014. 
    
  UST LITIGATION 
    
  The following action is pending against UST and/or its subsidiaries as of  February 20, 2015.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Vassallo v. United States Tobacco Co., et al  .,   Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial District, Miami-Dade County, Florida  ,   filed November 12, 2002. 
    
    5 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 12
 exhibit992q42014.htm
 TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES

Exhibit 99.2 (Q4 2014) 

Exhibit 99.2 

TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES  
    
  Below is a schedule, as of February 20, 2015, setting forth by month the number of individual smoking and health cases and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases against Philip Morris USA Inc. that are scheduled for trial through the end of 2015.  
    
  2015 
  Engle   progeny                           

As of February 20, 2015, there were 3   Engle   progeny cases in trial. 
    
  Other Individual Smoking   Health  

As of February 20, 2015, there were no non-  Engle   progeny cases in trial. 
    
  "Lights/Ultra Lights"  

As of February 20, 2015, there were no "Lights/Ultra Lights" cases in trial. 

</EX-99.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 mo-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 mo-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 mo-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 mo-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 mo-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 mo-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

