<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160225_10-K_edgar_data_764180_0000764180-16-000128_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>27333262</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>615598</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1272948</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>9708518</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>11372815</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3924139</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>110</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>19</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000764180-16-000128.hdr.sgml : 20160225
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160225094725
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000764180-16-000128
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		148
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160225
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160225

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ALTRIA GROUP, INC.
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000764180
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	CIGARETTES [2111]
		IRS NUMBER:				133260245
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			VA
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-08940
		FILM NUMBER:		161454203

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(804) 274-2200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		6601 WEST BROAD STREET
		CITY:			RICHMOND
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			23230

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	ALTRIA GROUP INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20030127

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PHILIP MORRIS COMPANIES INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000764180-16-000128.txt : 20160225

10-K
 1
 a2015form10-k.htm
 FORM 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES  
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION  
  Washington, D.C. 20549  
  FORM 10-K  
   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 
  OR  
   For the transition period from                         to                           
  Commission File Number 1-08940  
  ALTRIA GROUP, INC.  
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)  
   
 804-274-2200  
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)  
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
                                Title of each class                
    
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
    
      Common Stock, $0.33     1   /  3   par value 
    New York Stock Exchange 
   
              Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None 
      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.                 Yes         No 
      Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.              Yes          No 
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days         Yes             No 
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files)           Yes           No 
      Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K         
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
           Large accelerated filer                                                                                         Accelerated filer         
           Non-accelerated filer       (Do not check if smaller reporting company)            Smaller operating company     
      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).          Yes            No 

As of June 30, 2015, the aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $96 billion based on the closing sale price of the common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.  
   
 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
               Portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 19, 2016, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on or about April 7, 2016, are incorporated by reference into Part III hereof. 

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
      PART I 

Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    4 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    10 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    10 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    10 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    11 

PART II 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    12 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    14 
      Item 7. 
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    15 
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    38 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    39 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    110 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    110 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    110 

PART III 

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    110 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    111 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    111 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    111 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    111 

PART IV 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    112 
       Signatures  
      
    117 

Table of Contents  

     Part I 
    Item 1.  Business. 
  General Development of Business  
     General:   Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company incorporated in the Commonwealth of Virginia in 1985.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged predominantly in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST LLC ( UST ), which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Altria Group, Inc. s other operating companies included Nu Mark LLC ( Nu Mark ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products, and Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases.  Other Altria Group, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to certain Altria Group, Inc. operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services LLC, which provides various support services in areas such as legal, regulatory, finance, human resources and external affairs, to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.   
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. also held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ), which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.  On November 11, 2015, Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV ( AB InBev ) announced its firm offer to effect a business combination with SABMiller in a cash and stock transaction.  For further discussion, see   Note 6  .   Investment in SABMiller   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 8 ). 
     Source of Funds:    Because Altria Group, Inc. is a holding company, its access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests.  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.   
  Financial Information About Segments    
  Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in an all  

other category due to the continued reduction of the lease portfolio of PMCC and the relative financial contribution of Altria Group, Inc. s innovative tobacco products businesses to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results.   
  Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments is defined as operating income before amortization of intangibles and general corporate expenses.  Interest and other debt expense, net, and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and, accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Net revenues and operating companies income (together with a reconciliation to earnings before income taxes) attributable to each such segment for each of the last three years are set forth in   Note 15  .   Segment Reporting   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 15   ).  Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in   Note 4  .   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 4   )  .    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in   Note 2  .   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 2   )  . 
    The relative percentages of operating companies income (loss) attributable to each reportable segment and the all other category were as follows:  

For items affecting the comparability of the relative percentages of operating companies income (loss) attributable to each reportable segment, see   Note 15  .  
  Narrative Description of Business    
  Portions of the information called for by this Item are included in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -   Operating Results by Business Segment   of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Tobacco Space 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies include PM USA, USSTC and other subsidiaries of UST, Middleton and Nu Mark.  Altria Group Distribution Company provides sales,  

1 

     Table of Contents  

     distribution and consumer engagement services to Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies.   
  The products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries include smokeable tobacco products comprised of cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA and machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton; smokeless tobacco products, substantially all of which are manufactured and sold by USSTC; and innovative tobacco products, including e-vapor products manufactured and sold by Nu Mark.  
     Cigarettes:      PM USA is the largest cigarette company in the United States, with total cigarette shipment volume in the United States of approximately   126.0 billion   units in   2015  , an increase of   0.5%   from   2014  .    Marlboro  , the principal cigarette brand of PM USA, has been the largest-selling cigarette brand in the United States for the past 40 years.  
     Cigars:      Middleton is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco to customers, substantially all of which are located in the United States.  Middleton sources a portion of its cigars from an importer through a third-party contract manufacturing arrangement.  Total shipment volume for cigars was approximately   1.3 billion   units in   2015  , an increase of   4.2%   from   2014  .    Black   Mild   is the principal cigar brand of Middleton.   
     Smokeless tobacco products:      USSTC is the leading producer and marketer of moist smokeless tobacco ( MST ) products.  The smokeless products segment includes the premium brands,   Copenhagen   and   Skoal  , value brands,   Red Seal   and   Husky,   and   Marlboro   Snus, a premium PM USA spit-free smokeless tobacco product.  Substantially all of the smokeless tobacco products are manufactured and sold to customers in the United States.  Total smokeless products shipment volume was   813.5 million   units in   2015  , an increase of   2.5%   from   2014  . 
     Innovative tobacco products:    Nu Mark participates in the e-vapor category and has developed and commercialized other innovative tobacco products.  In addition, Nu Mark sources the production of its e-vapor products through overseas contract manufacturing arrangements.  In 2013, Nu Mark introduced   MarkTen   e-vapor products.  In April 2014, Nu Mark acquired the e-vapor business of Green Smoke, Inc. and its affiliates ( Green Smoke ), which has been selling e-vapor products since 2009.  For a further discussion of the acquisition of Green Smoke, see   Note 3  .   Acquisition of Green Smoke   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 3   ).   
  In December 2013, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries entered into a series of agreements with Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ) pursuant to which Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries provide an exclusive license to PMI to sell Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries  e-vapor products outside the United States, and PMI s subsidiaries provide an exclusive license to Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries to sell two of PMI s heated tobacco product technologies in the United States.  Further, in July 2015, Altria Group, Inc. announced the expansion of its strategic framework with PMI to include a joint research, development and  

technology-sharing agreement.  Under this agreement, Altria Group, Inc. and PMI will collaborate to develop e-vapor products for commercialization in the United States by Altria Group, Inc. and in markets outside the United States by PMI.  This agreement also provides for exclusive technology cross licenses, technical information sharing and cooperation on scientific assessment, regulatory engagement and approval related to e-vapor products.    
     Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:      Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries sell their tobacco products principally to wholesalers (including distributors), large retail organizations, including chain stores, and the armed services. 
    The market for tobacco products is highly competitive, characterized by brand recognition and loyalty, with product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging and distribution constituting the significant methods of competition.  Promotional activities include, in certain instances and where permitted by law, allowances, the distribution of incentive items, price promotions, product promotions, coupons and other discounts.   
  In June 2009, the President of the United States of America signed into law the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ), which provides the United States Food and Drug Administration ( FDA ) with broad authority to regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products; the authority to require disclosures of related information; and the authority to enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations.  The FSPTCA imposes restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products, including at retail.  The law also grants the FDA authority to extend the FSPTCA application, by regulation, to all other tobacco products, including cigars, pipe tobacco and e-vapor products.  In April 2014, the FDA issued proposed regulations for other tobacco products, which as proposed would include machine-made large cigars, e-vapor products, pipe tobacco and oral tobacco-derived nicotine products marketed and sold by some of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries.  The proposed regulations would impose the FSPTCA regulatory framework on products manufactured, marketed and sold by Middleton and Nu Mark with potentially wide-ranging impact on their businesses.  PM USA and USSTC are subject to quarterly user fees as a result of the FSPTCA.  Their respective FDA user fee amounts are determined by an allocation formula administered by the FDA that is based on the respective market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  PM USA, USSTC and other U.S. tobacco manufacturers have agreed to other marketing restrictions in the United States as part of the settlements of state health care cost recovery actions. 
  In the United States, under a contract growing program, PM USA purchases burley and flue-cured leaf tobaccos of various grades and styles directly from tobacco growers.  Under the terms of this program, PM USA agrees to purchase the amount of tobacco specified in the grower contracts.  PM USA also purchases a portion of its United States tobacco requirements through leaf merchants.  

2 

     Table of Contents  

     Tobacco production in the United States was historically subject to government controls, including the production control programs administered by the United States Department of Agriculture (the  USDA ).  In October 2004, the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ), which applied to PM USA, Middleton and USSTC, was signed into law. FETRA eliminated the federal tobacco quota and price support program through an industry-funded buy-out of tobacco growers and quota holders.  The cost of the 10-year buy-out, which expired after the third quarter of 2014, was approximately $9.5 billion and was paid by manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product subject to federal excise tax ( FET ).  The cost was allocated based on the relative market shares of manufacturers and importers of each kind of tobacco product.  As a result of FETRA, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded charges to cost of sales of approximately $0.3 billion for the year ended December 31, 2014 and approximately $0.4 billion for the year ended December 31, 2013.   
  USSTC purchases burley, dark fire-cured and air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles from domestic tobacco growers under a contract growing program as well as from leaf merchants.   
  Middleton purchases burley and dark air-cured tobaccos of various grades and styles through leaf merchants.  Middleton does not have a contract growing program. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries believe there is an adequate supply of tobacco in the world markets to satisfy their current and anticipated production requirements.  See Item 1A.  Risk Factors of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 1A ) and   Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products   in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of risks associated with tobacco supply.  
  Wine 
  Ste. Michelle is a producer and supplier of premium varietal and blended table wines and of sparkling wines.  Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily   Chateau Ste. Michelle  ,   Columbia Crest   and   14 Hands  ,     and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other domestic and foreign wine     regions.  Ste. Michelle s total   2015   wine shipment volume of approximately   8.9 million   cases increased   6.2%   from   2014  .   
  Ste. Michelle     holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns   Stag s Leap Wine Cellars   in Napa Valley.  Ste. Michelle also owns   Conn Creek   in Napa Valley and   Erath   in Oregon.  In addition, Ste. Michelle imports and markets   Antinori  ,   Torres   and   Villa Maria Estate   wines and   Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte   in the United States.   
     Distribution, Competition and Raw Materials:      Key elements of Ste. Michelle s strategy are expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers, and a focus on improving product mix to higher-priced, premium products.  

Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers.  Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.  Substantially all of Ste. Michelle s sales occur in the United States through state-licensed distributors. 
  Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the beverage alcohol industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing rules, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. 
  Ste. Michelle uses grapes harvested from its own vineyards or purchased from independent growers, as well as bulk wine purchased from other sources.  Grape production can be adversely affected by weather and other forces that may limit production.  At the present time, Ste. Michelle believes that there is a sufficient supply of grapes and bulk wine available in the market to satisfy its current and expected production requirements.  See Item 1A for a discussion of risks associated with competition, unfavorable changes in grape supply and governmental regulations.  
  Financial Services Business 
  In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize its operating results and cash flows from its existing lease portfolio activities and asset sales.  For further information on PMCC s finance assets, see   Note 7  .   Finance Assets, net   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 7   ). 
  Other Matters 
     Customers:      The largest customer of PM USA, USSTC and Middleton, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately   26%   of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the year ended   December 31, 2015  , and   27%   for each of the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  .  In addition, Core-Mark Holding Company, Inc. accounted for approximately   10%   of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015. Substantially all of these net revenues were reported in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments.   
  Sales to   three   distributors accounted for approximately   66%  ,   67%   and   66%   of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2015,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  
     Employees:    At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries employed approximately 8,800 people.  
     Executive Officers of Altria Group, Inc.:    The disclosure regarding executive officers is included in Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance -   Executive Officers as of February 12, 2016   of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

3 

     Table of Contents  

        Research and Development:    Research and development expense for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   is set forth in   Note 17  .   Additional Information   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8.  
     Intellectual Property:    Trademarks are of material importance to Altria Group, Inc. and its operating companies, and are protected by registration or otherwise.  In addition, as of   December 31, 2015  , the portfolio of over 600 United States patents owned by Altria Group, Inc. s businesses, as a whole, was material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco businesses.  However, no one patent or group of related patents was material to Altria Group, Inc. s business or its tobacco businesses as of   December 31, 2015  .  Altria Group, Inc. s businesses also have proprietary secrets, technology, know-how, processes and other intellectual property rights that are protected by appropriate confidentiality measures.  Certain trade secrets are material to Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco and wine businesses. 
     Environmental Regulation:      Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States:  The Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party.  Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations.  As discussed in   Note 2  ,   Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.  Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future.  In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation and compliance costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows. 
  Financial Information About Geographic Areas  
  Substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s net revenues are from sales generated in the United States for each of the last three fiscal years and substantially all of Altria Group, Inc. s long-lived assets are located in the United States. 

Available Information  
  Altria Group, Inc. is required to file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ).  Investors may read and copy any document that Altria Group, Inc. files, including this Annual Report on Form 10-K, at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549.  Investors may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330.  In addition, the SEC maintains an Internet site at http://www.sec.gov that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC, from which investors can electronically access Altria Group, Inc. s SEC filings. 
  Altria Group, Inc. makes available free of charge on or through its website (www.altria.com) its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), as soon as reasonably practicable after Altria Group, Inc. electronically files such material with, or furnishes it to, the SEC.  Investors can access Altria Group, Inc. s filings with the SEC by visiting www.altria.com/secfilings.  
  The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this report or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC. 
    Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
  The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our business, our results of operations, our cash flows, our financial position and the actual outcome of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
  We    (1)    may from time to time make written or oral forward-looking statements, including earnings guidance and other statements contained in filings with the SEC, reports to security holders, press releases and investor webcasts.  You can identify these forward-looking statements by use of words such  as  strategy,   expects,   continues,   plans,   anticipates,  believes,   will,   estimates,   forecasts,   intends,   projects,   goals,   objectives,   guidance,   targets  and other words of similar meaning.  You can also identify them by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. 
  We cannot guarantee that any forward-looking statement will be realized, although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions.  Achievement of future results is subject to risks, uncertainties and assumptions that may prove to be ___________________________________________________ 
   1    This section uses the terms  we,   our  and  us  when it is not necessary to distinguish among Altria Group, Inc. and its various operating subsidiaries or when any distinction is clear from the context. 

4 

     Table of Contents  

     inaccurate.  Should known or unknown risks or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying assumptions prove inaccurate, actual results could vary materially from those anticipated, estimated or projected.  You should bear this in mind as you consider forward-looking statements and whether to invest in or remain invested in Altria Group, Inc. s securities. In connection with the  safe harbor  provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we are identifying important factors that, individually or in the aggregate, could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking statements made by us; any such statement is qualified by reference to the following cautionary statements.  We elaborate on these and other risks we face throughout this document, particularly in the  Business Environment  sections preceding our discussion of the operating results of our subsidiaries  businesses in Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 7 ).  You should understand that it is not possible to predict or identify all risk factors.  Consequently, you should not consider the following to be a complete discussion of all potential risks or uncertainties.  We do not undertake to update any forward-looking statement that we may make from time to time except as required by applicable law. 
  Unfavorable litigation outcomes could materially adversely affect the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries.    
  Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband-related claims, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors and distributors. 
    Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation.  Damages claimed in some tobacco-related or other litigation are significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars.  The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.  In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several.  In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its  subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts. Furthermore, in those cases where plaintiffs are successful, Altria Group, Inc.  

or its subsidiaries may also be required to pay interest and attorneys  fees. 
  Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief may not be obtainable in all cases.  This risk has been substantially reduced given that 47 states and Puerto Rico now limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.  As discussed in Note 18,   Contingencies   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 ( Note 18 ), tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well.  Such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court.  Although we cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges. 
    In certain litigation, PM USA faces potentially significant non-monetary remedies.  For example, in the lawsuit brought by the United States Department of Justice, discussed in Note 18, the district court did not impose monetary penalties but ordered significant non-monetary remedies, including the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation.  Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty, and significant challenges remain. 
  It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or the businesses of one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially adversely affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.  Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts.  Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.  However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so.  See Item 3. Legal Proceedings of this Annual Report on Form 10-K ( Item 3 ), Note 18 and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a discussion of pending tobacco-related litigation. 
  Significant federal, state and local governmental actions, including actions by the FDA, and various private sector actions may continue to have an adverse impact on our tobacco subsidiaries  businesses. 
  As described in   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   in Item 7,     PM USA faces significant governmental and private sector actions, including efforts aimed at reducing the incidence of  

5 

     Table of Contents  

     tobacco use and efforts seeking to hold PM USA responsible for the adverse health effects associated with both smoking and exposure to environmental tobacco smoke.  These actions, combined with the diminishing social acceptance of smoking, have resulted in reduced cigarette industry volume, and we expect that these factors will continue to reduce cigarette consumption levels. 
  Actions by the FDA and other federal, state or local governments or agencies, including those specific actions described in   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   in Item 7, may impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products, limit adult tobacco consumer choices, delay or prevent the launch of new or modified tobacco products or products with claims of reduced risk, require the recall or other removal of tobacco products from the marketplace (for example as a result of product contamination or a determination by the FDA that one or more tobacco products do not satisfy the statutory requirements for substantial equivalence), restrict communications to adult tobacco consumers, restrict the ability to differentiate tobacco products, create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies, impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packing requirements, interrupt manufacturing or otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business, or restrict or prevent the use of specified tobacco products in certain locations or the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments.  Any one or more of these actions may have a material adverse impact on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.  See   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   in Item 7 for a more detailed discussion of these risks. 
  Tobacco products are subject to substantial taxation, which could have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries.  
  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes, and significant increases in tobacco product-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted within the United States at the state, federal and local levels. Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of our tobacco subsidiaries through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products. Such shifts may have an adverse impact on the reported share performance of tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. For further discussion, see   Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Excise Taxes   in Item 7  . 
  Our tobacco businesses face significant competition and their failure to compete effectively could have an adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations or cash flows of Altria Group, Inc., or the business of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Each of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries operates in highly competitive tobacco categories.   Significant methods of  

competition include product quality, taste, price, product innovation, marketing, packaging, distribution and promotional activities.  A highly competitive environment could negatively impact the profitability, market share and shipment volume of our tobacco subsidiaries, which could have an adverse effect on the consolidated results of operations or cash flows of Altria Group, Inc. 
  PM USA also faces competition from lowest priced brands sold by certain United States and foreign manufacturers that have cost advantages because they are not parties to settlements of certain tobacco litigation in the United States.  These settlements, among other factors, have resulted in substantial cigarette price increases.  These manufacturers may fail to comply with related state escrow legislation or may avoid escrow deposit obligations on the majority of their sales by concentrating on certain states where escrow deposits are not required or are required on fewer than all such manufacturers  cigarettes sold in such states.  Additional competition has resulted from diversion into the United States market of cigarettes intended for sale outside the United States, the sale of counterfeit cigarettes by third parties, the sale of cigarettes by third parties over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid collection of applicable taxes, and imports of foreign lowest priced brands.  USSTC faces significant competition in the smokeless tobacco category and has experienced consumer down-trading to lower-priced brands.  In the cigar category, additional competition has resulted from increased imports of machine-made large cigars manufactured offshore. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may be unsuccessful in anticipating changes in adult consumer preferences, responding to changes in consumer purchase behavior or managing through difficult competitive and economic conditions. 
  Each of our tobacco and wine subsidiaries is subject to intense competition and changes in adult consumer preferences.  To be successful, they must continue to: 
             
    promote brand equity successfully; 
                
    anticipate and respond to new and evolving adult consumer preferences; 
                
    develop, manufacture, market and distribute products that appeal to adult consumers (including, where appropriate, through arrangements with, or investments in, third parties); 
                
    improve productivity; and 
                
    protect or enhance margins through cost savings and price increases. 
     See   Tobacco Space - Business Environment   -   Summary   in Item 7 for additional discussion concerning evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences, including increased consumer awareness of, and expenditures on, e-vapor products.  Continued growth of this product category could further contribute to reductions in cigarette consumption levels and cigarette industry sales volume  

6 

     Table of Contents  

     and could adversely affect the growth rates of other tobacco products. 
  The willingness of adult consumers to purchase premium consumer product brands depends in part on economic conditions.  In periods of economic uncertainty, adult consumers may purchase more discount brands and/or, in the case of tobacco products, consider lower-priced tobacco products, which could have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Our tobacco and wine subsidiaries work to broaden their brand portfolios to compete effectively with lower-priced products. 
  Our financial services business (conducted through PMCC) holds investments in finance leases, principally in transportation (including aircraft), power generation and manufacturing equipment and facilities.  Its lessees are also subject to intense competition and economic conditions.  If parties to PMCC s leases fail to manage through difficult economic and competitive conditions, PMCC may have to increase its allowance for losses, which would adversely affect our earnings. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries may be unsuccessful in developing and commercializing adjacent products or processes, including innovative tobacco products that may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products and that appeal to adult tobacco consumers, which may have an adverse effect on their ability to grow new revenue streams. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have growth strategies involving moves and potential moves into adjacent products or processes, including innovative tobacco products.  Some innovative tobacco products may reduce the health risks associated with current tobacco products, while continuing to offer adult tobacco consumers (within and outside the United States) products that meet their taste expectations and evolving preferences. Examples include tobacco-containing and nicotine-containing products that reduce or eliminate exposure to cigarette smoke and/or constituents identified by public health authorities as harmful. These efforts may include arrangements with, or investments in, third parties.  Our tobacco subsidiaries may not succeed in these efforts, which would have an adverse effect on the ability to grow new revenue streams. 
  Further, we cannot predict whether regulators, including the FDA, will permit the marketing or sale of products with claims of reduced risk to consumers, the speed with which they may make such determinations or whether regulators will impose an unduly burdensome regulatory framework on such products.  Nor can we predict whether adult tobacco consumers  purchasing decisions would be affected by such claims if permitted.  Adverse developments on any of these matters could negatively impact the commercial viability of such products. 
  If our tobacco subsidiaries do not succeed in their efforts to develop and commercialize innovative tobacco products or to obtain regulatory approval for the marketing or sale of products with claims of reduced risk, but one or more of their competitors  

do succeed, our tobacco subsidiaries may be at a competitive disadvantage.  
  Significant changes in tobacco leaf price, availability or quality could have an adverse effect on the profitability and business of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Any significant change in tobacco leaf prices, quality or availability could adversely affect our tobacco subsidiaries  profitability and business.  For further discussion, see   Tobacco Space - Business Environment - Price, Availability and Quality      of Agricultural Products   in Item 7  . 
  Because Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries rely on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers, an extended disruption at a facility or in service by a supplier could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries face risks inherent in reliance on a few significant facilities and a small number of significant suppliers.  A natural or man-made disaster or other disruption that affects the manufacturing operations of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries or the operations of any significant suppliers of any of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries could adversely impact the operations of the affected subsidiaries.  An extended disruption in operations experienced by one or more of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries or significant suppliers could have a material adverse effect on the business, the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  Altria Group, Inc. may be unable to attract and retain the best talent due to the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco control actions. 
  Our ability to implement our strategy of attracting and retaining the best talent may be impaired by the impact of decreasing social acceptance of tobacco usage and tobacco regulation and control actions.  The tobacco industry competes for talent with the consumer products industry and other companies that enjoy greater societal acceptance.  As a result, we may be unable to attract and retain the best talent. 
  Acquisitions or other events may adversely affect Altria Group, Inc. s credit rating, and Altria Group, Inc. may not achieve its anticipated strategic or financial objectives. 
  Altria Group, Inc. from time to time considers acquisitions and may engage in confidential acquisition negotiations that are not publicly announced unless and until those negotiations result in a definitive agreement.  Although we seek to maintain or improve our credit ratings over time, it is possible that completing a given acquisition or the occurrence of other events could impact our credit ratings or the outlook for those ratings.  Any such change in ratings or outlook may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate.   

7 

     Table of Contents  

     Furthermore, acquisition opportunities are limited, and acquisitions present risks of failing to achieve efficient and effective integration, strategic objectives and anticipated revenue improvements and cost savings.  There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire attractive businesses on favorable terms, that we will realize any of the anticipated benefits from an acquisition or that acquisitions will be quickly accretive to earnings. 
  Disruption and uncertainty in the debt capital markets could adversely affect Altria Group, Inc. s access to the debt capital markets, earnings and dividend rate. 
  Access to the debt capital markets is important for us to satisfy our liquidity and financing needs.  Disruption and uncertainty in the credit and debt capital markets and any resulting adverse impact on credit availability, pricing, credit terms or credit rating may negatively affect the amount of credit available to us and may also increase our costs and adversely affect our earnings or our dividend rate. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s reported earnings from and carrying value of its equity investment in SABMiller may be adversely affected by unfavorable foreign currency exchange rates and other factors. 
  For purposes of financial reporting, the earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in SABMiller are translated into U.S. dollars from various local currencies.  During times of a strengthening U.S. dollar against these currencies, our reported earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in SABMiller will be reduced because the local currencies will translate into fewer U.S. dollars.  The earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in SABMiller are also subject to the risks encountered by SABMiller in its business. 
  Altria Group, Inc. may be required to write down intangible assets, including goodwill, due to impairment, which would reduce earnings. 
  We periodically calculate the fair value of our reporting units and intangible assets to test for impairment.  This calculation may be affected by several factors, including general economic conditions, regulatory developments, changes in category growth rates as a result of changing adult consumer preferences, success of planned new product introductions, competitive activity and tobacco-related taxes.  If an impairment is determined to exist, we will incur impairment losses, which will reduce our earnings.  
  Competition, unfavorable changes in grape supply and new governmental regulations or revisions to existing governmental regulations could adversely affect Ste. Michelle s wine business. 
  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including from many large, well-established domestic and international companies.  The adequacy of Ste. Michelle s grape supply is influenced by consumer demand for wine in relation to industry-wide production levels as well as by weather and crop  

conditions, particularly in eastern Washington.  Supply shortages related to any one or more of these factors could increase production costs and wine prices, which ultimately may have a negative impact on Ste. Michelle s sales.  In addition, federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the alcohol beverage industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  New regulations or revisions to existing regulations, resulting in further restrictions or taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages, may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business.  For further discussion, see   Wine Segment - Business Environment   in Item 7. 
  The failure of Altria Group, Inc. s information systems or service providers  information systems to function as intended, or cyberattacks or security breaches, could result in loss of revenue, assets, personal data, intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive data, violation of applicable privacy and data security laws, reputational harm and significant costs. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries rely on information systems to help manage business processes, collect and interpret business data, comply with regulatory, financial reporting and tax requirements, engage in marketing and e-commerce activities, collect and store sensitive data and confidential information, and communicate internally and externally with employees, investors, suppliers, trade customers, adult consumers and others.  Many of these information systems are managed by third-party service providers.  We have implemented administrative, technical and physical safeguards, including testing and auditing protocols, backup systems and business continuity plans, intended to protect our systems and data.  However, because the techniques used in cyberattacks and security breaches change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures.  To date, interruptions of our information systems have been infrequent and have not had a material impact on our operations.  Failure of our systems or service providers  systems to function as intended or cyberattacks or security breaches by parties intent on extracting or corrupting information or otherwise disrupting business processes could result in loss of revenue, assets, personal data, intellectual property, trade secrets or other sensitive and confidential data, violation of applicable privacy and data security laws, damage to the reputation of our companies and their brands, legal challenges and significant remediation and other costs to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.    
  Unfavorable outcomes of any governmental investigations could materially affect the businesses of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries. 
  From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.  We cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced or the outcome of such investigations, and it is possible that our   

8 

     Table of Contents  

     business could be materially adversely affected by an unfavorable outcome of future investigations.   
  Expanding international business operations subjects Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, and violations of such laws or regulations could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs. 
  While Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are primarily engaged in business activities in the United States, they do engage (directly or indirectly) in certain international business activities that are subject to various United States and foreign laws and regulations, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other laws prohibiting bribery and corruption.  Although we have a Code of Conduct and a compliance system designed to prevent and detect violations of applicable law, no system can provide assurance that it will always protect against improper actions by employees or third parties.  Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could result in reputational harm, legal challenges and/or significant costs. 
  AB InBev s proposed transaction to effect a business combination with SABMiller may not be completed within the anticipated time frame or at all, which could have a negative effect on the value of our equity investment in SABMiller. 
  As described in more detail in Note 6,   Investment in SABMiller   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 ( Note 6 ), on November 11, 2015, AB InBev announced its firm offer to effect a business combination with SABMiller.  The proposed transaction is subject to a number of closing conditions, including shareholder approvals of both SABMiller and AB InBev, and receipt of the required regulatory approvals.  These conditions may not be satisfied or may take longer than expected to be satisfied.  The transaction is also subject to other risks and uncertainties over which Altria Group, Inc. has no control.  We cannot provide any assurance that the proposed transaction will be completed or that there will not be a delay in the completion of the proposed transaction.  If the transaction is not completed or is subject to a delay, the value of our investment in SABMiller could be adversely affected. 
  If AB InBev s proposed transaction to effect a business combination with SABMiller is completed, AB InBev may not achieve the intended benefits of the transaction, which could have a negative effect on our reported earnings from and carrying value of our equity investment in the combined company. 
  There can be no assurance that AB InBev will be able to successfully integrate SABMiller s business or otherwise realize the expected benefits of the proposed transaction.  Any of these outcomes could result in increased costs to the combined company and dilution to its shareholders, and could adversely affect the combined company s financial condition and Altria Group, Inc. s reported earnings from and carrying value of our investment in the combined company.   

If AB InBev s proposed transaction to effect a business combination with SABMiller is completed, we will receive a substantial portion of our transaction consideration in the form of restricted shares.  Furthermore, the number of restricted shares we expect to receive is, under certain circumstances described below, subject to proration, which if it were to occur would decrease the number of restricted shares and increase the amount of cash that we receive in connection with the transaction.  Any cash we receive will be subject to taxation and to risks associated with changes in the value of the U.S. dollar versus the British pound.  
  Altria Group, Inc. has committed to elect the partial share alternative ( PSA ) in the transaction. Therefore, upon completion of the proposed transaction, we expect to receive a substantial portion of our transaction consideration in the form of shares that will be subject to certain limitations and restrictions, including a five-year restriction on sale or transfer, subject to limited exceptions.  These transfer restrictions will require us to bear the risks associated with our investment in the combined company for a five-year period following completion of the proposed transaction.  Further, while we have committed to elect the PSA in the transaction, our election is subject to proration to the extent that other SABMiller shareholders also elect this alternative and these elections exceed the maximum number of shares that AB InBev s firm offer makes available to those SABMiller shareholders that elect the PSA.  If we receive more cash and less equity consideration than we currently expect, we will be subject to additional tax liabilities, our percentage ownership of the combined company will be reduced and we may be unable to account for our investment under the equity method of accounting as we currently do for our investment in SABMiller.  
  In addition, the cash consideration we expect to receive will be denominated in British pounds.  Based on the British pound to U.S. dollar exchange rate on November 10, 2015, the trading day prior to the announcement of the proposed transaction, we anticipate receiving approximately $2.5 billion in pre-tax cash.  We entered into a derivative financial instrument in the form of a put option to hedge our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements.  We are exposed to the risk of default by, or failure of, our counterparty financial institution to perform under the contractual obligation of the derivative financial instrument.  In addition, as indicated above, we may receive more cash consideration than we anticipate because our election of the PSA is subject to proration and, therefore, we may not be successful in effectively mitigating our foreign currency exchange rate risk on any additional cash proceeds above the $2.5 billion in pre-tax cash that we may receive.  As a result of either of the above risks, Altria Group, Inc. could incur a decrease in the amount of the gain recorded upon the completion of the AB InBev and SABMiller transaction.  

9 

     Table of Contents  

     If AB InBev s proposed transaction to effect a business combination with SABMiller is completed, our tax treatment of the transaction may be challenged. 
  While we expect the equity consideration that we receive in the transaction to qualify for tax-deferred treatment, we cannot provide any assurance that federal and state tax authorities will not challenge the expected tax treatment and, if they do, what the outcome of any such challenge will be.  It is also possible that the tax treatment of the dividends Altria Group, Inc. expects to receive from the combined company may not be as favorable as that applied to the dividends we receive from SABMiller.  
    Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. 
  None.  
    Item 2.  Properties. 
  The property in Richmond, Virginia that serves as the headquarters facility for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, USSTC, Middleton, Nu Mark and certain other subsidiaries is under lease.   
  At   December 31, 2015  , the smokeable products segment used four manufacturing and processing facilities.  PM USA owns and operates two tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities located in the Richmond, Virginia area that are used in the manufacturing and processing of cigarettes.  Middleton owns and operates two manufacturing and processing facilities - one in King of Prussia, Pennsylvania and one in Limerick, Pennsylvania - that are used in the manufacturing and processing of cigars and pipe tobacco.  In addition, PM USA owns a research and technology center in Richmond, Virginia that is leased to an affiliate, Altria Client Services LLC.   
  At   December 31, 2015  , the smokeless products segment used four smokeless tobacco manufacturing and processing facilities located in Franklin Park, Illinois; Hopkinsville, Kentucky; Nashville, Tennessee; and Richmond, Virginia, all of which are owned and operated by USSTC.  In 2016, USSTC expects to complete construction of a new facility located in Hopkinsville, Kentucky and expects the facility to be operational in the second half of 2016.   
  At   December 31, 2015  , the wine segment used 11 wine-making facilities - seven in Washington, three in California and one in Oregon.  All of these facilities are owned and operated by Ste. Michelle, with the exception of a facility that is leased by Ste. Michelle in Washington.  In addition, in order to support the production of its wines, the wine segment used vineyards in Washington, California and Oregon that are leased or owned by Ste. Michelle.  
  The plants and properties owned or leased and operated by Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are maintained in good condition and are believed to be suitable and adequate for present needs.  
    Item 3.  Legal Proceedings. 
  The information required by this Item is included in   Note 18   and Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements and  

accompanying notes for the year ended December 31, 2015 were filed on Form 8-K on January 28, 2016 (such consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes are also included in Item 8).  The following summarizes certain developments in Altria Group, Inc. s litigation since the filing of such Form 8-K.  
  Recent Developments 
  Smoking and Health Litigation 
     Non-  Engle   Progeny Litigation:   
  In   Pooshs  , on February 8, 2016, a California federal court jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA. 
  In   Bullock  , on February 8, 2016, the district court denied plaintiff s motion for a new trial. 
  In   Schwarz  , on February 10, 2016, PM USA filed a petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States Supreme Court. 
     Engle   Progeny Trial Results: 
  In   McCoy  , on January 27, 2016, plaintiff filed a notice of cross-appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. 
  In   Ewing  , on January 28, 2016, an Escambia County jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA. 
  In   Pollari  , on January 28, 2016, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $2.5 million. 
  On January 29, 2016, the Florida Supreme Court upheld the trial court s decision in favor of plaintiff in   R. Cohen  .  On February 1, 2016, the Florida Supreme Court upheld the trial courts  decisions in favor of plaintiffs in   Kayton   and   Putney  .  On February 3, 2016, defendants filed a motion for clarification in   Putney  .  On February 8, 2016, in   Kayton   and   R. Cohen  , PM USA posted riders increasing the amount of its bonds to $15 million and $7.5 million, respectively. 
  In   Buchanan  , on February 2, 2016, the Florida Supreme Court declined to accept jurisdiction of PM USA s petition for review.  On February 8, 2016, PM USA posted a rider increasing the amount of its bond to $5.5 million. 
  In   Bowden  , on February 2, 2016, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court s decision in favor of plaintiff.  In the first quarter of 2016, PM USA will record a provision of approximately $1.6 million for the judgment plus interest. 
  In   Barbose  , on February 17, 2016, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of $2.5 million and, on February 16, 2016, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal. 
  In   Cooper  , on February 10, 2016, the trial court entered final judgment in favor of plaintiff, reducing the compensatory damages award against PM USA to approximately $300,000. 
  In   Ahrens  , on February 13, 2016, a Pinellas County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ( R.J. Reynolds ) awarding $9 million in compensatory damages and allocating 24% of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded $2.5 million in punitive damages against each defendant. 
  In   Greene   (formerly   Rizzuto  ), on February 16, 2016, PM USA paid the judgment plus interest in the amount of approximately $6.8 million. 

10 

     Table of Contents  

     In   Hess  , on February 22, 2016, PM USA paid the judgment plus interest and associated costs in the amount of approximately $10.6 million. 
  In   E. Smith  , on February 22, 2016, a Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.         
  In   Ledoux  , on February 23, 2016, the trial court denied defendants  post-trial motions. 
  Medical Monitoring Class Actions:    In   Donovan  , on February 10, 2016, a Massachusetts jury returned a verdict in favor of PM USA. 
  Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation 
     NPM Adjustment Disputes:    On February 8, 2016, PM USA and certain other manufacturers entered into an agreement with the State of Missouri to settle the non-participating manufacturer ( NPM ) adjustment disputes under the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement ( MSA ).  The settlement is contingent upon Missouri s enactment by June 3, 2016 of certain amendments to its existing escrow statute.  Similar to the settlement of these disputes with 24 other signatory states, the settlement with Missouri would resolve the disputes for the years 2003-2012 and treat 2013-2014 as  transition years.   If the settlement becomes effective, PM USA will retain approximately $36 million previously received as a result of an arbitration panel s ruling that Missouri did not diligently enforce its escrow statue during 2003 and will receive an additional approximately $18 million in the form of a reduction to the next MSA payment following the effectiveness of the settlement.  In addition, if the settlement becomes effective, the NPM Adjustment provision will be revised and streamlined as to Missouri for the years after 2014.  The original participating manufacturers have agreed that the amounts they receive under the settlement for the years after 2014 will be allocated among them pursuant to a formula that modifies the MSA allocation formula in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments. 
  On February 22, 2016, the Court of Appeals of Maryland denied PM USA s petition for discretionary judicial review of the Maryland intermediate appellate court decision that had reversed the Maryland trial court s ruling in PM USA s favor on the pro rata judgment reduction method.  This decision leaves in effect the intermediate court s decision applying a judgment reduction method that is more favorable to the state.  As a result of this denial of PM USA s petition, PM USA will be required to return approximately $12 million of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and $7 million of the interest it received (plus interest on those amounts).  In addition, PM USA will record a corresponding reduction to its pre-tax earnings in the first quarter of 2016.  
     Federal Government s Lawsuit:   On February 8, 2016, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia issued an order on the content of the corrective communications and ordered the parties to submit proposed changes to the   consent order on the implementation details   by April 1, 2016.  

Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases 
     State Trial Court Class Certifications:    In   Aspinall  , on February 19, 2016, the trial court issued its  Findings of Fact and Conclusions of Law.   The court found that (1) PM USA violated Massachusetts consumer protection laws in marketing   Marlboro    Lights  and (2) plaintiffs proved that class members were economically injured, but did not prove a specific measure of damages.  As a result, the court awarded statutory damages of $25 per class member, for a total of $4.9 million, plus interest, attorneys  fees and costs. 
  Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation 
     Argentine Grower Cases:   In   Hupan  , on January 29, 2016, plaintiffs filed an amended complaint against defendants, including PM USA.  On February 12, 2016, PM USA and Philip Morris Global Brands Inc. (a subsidiary of PMI) filed a motion to strike the amended complaint. 
     UST Litigation:   In   Vassallo  , on February 3, 2016, the trial court denied plaintiff s motion to amend the complaint to add fraud and conspiracy claims. 

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures. 
  Not applicable. 

11 

Part II 
    Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.     
  Performance Graph  
  The graph below compares the cumulative total shareholder return of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock for the last five years with the cumulative total return for the same period of the S P 500 Index and the Altria Group, Inc. Peer Group    (1)   .  The graph assumes the investment of $100 in common stock and each of the indices as of the market close on December 31, 2010 and the reinvestment of all dividends on a quarterly basis.   

Source: Bloomberg -  Total Return Analysis  calculated on a daily basis and assumes reinvestment of dividends as of the ex-dividend date. 
   (1)   In 2015, the Altria Group, Inc. Peer Group consisted of U.S.-headquartered consumer product companies that are competitors to Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco operating companies subsidiaries or that have been selected on the basis of revenue or market capitalization: Campbell Soup Company, The Coca-Cola Company, Colgate-Palmolive Company, ConAgra Foods, Inc., General Mills, Inc.,  The Hershey Company, Kellogg Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, Kraft Foods Group, Inc., The Kraft Heinz Company, Lorillard, Inc., Mondel z International, Inc., PepsiCo, Inc. and Reynolds American Inc. 
  Note - On October 1, 2012, Kraft Foods Inc. (KFT) spun off Kraft Foods Group, Inc. (KRFT) to its shareholders and then changed its name from Kraft Foods Inc. to Mondel z International, Inc. (MDLZ).  On July 2, 2015, Kraft Foods Group, Inc. merged with and into a wholly owned subsidiary of H.J. Heinz Holding Corporation, which was renamed The Kraft Heinz Company (KHC).  On June 12, 2015, Reynolds American Inc. (RAI) acquired Lorillard, Inc. (LO). 
      
  12 

     Table of Contents  

   Market and Dividend Information 
  The principal stock exchange on which Altria Group, Inc. s common stock (par value $0.33 1/3 per share) is listed is the New York Stock Exchange.  At February 12, 2016, there were approximately 71,000 holders of record of Altria Group, Inc. s common stock.  
  The table below discloses the high and low sales prices and cash dividends declared per share for Altria Group, Inc. s common stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange. 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities During the Quarter Ended December 31, 2015 
  The Board of Directors authorized a   $1.0 billion   share repurchase program in July 2015 (the  July 2015 share repurchase program ), which Altria Group, Inc. expects to complete by the end of 2016.  The timing of share repurchases under the July 2015 share repurchase program depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors, and the program remains subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
    
  Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase activity for each of the three months in the period ended December 31,   2015  , was as follows:  

(1)   
    The total number of shares purchased include (a) shares purchased under the July 2015 share repurchase program (which totaled 612,000 shares in December) and (b) shares withheld by Altria Group, Inc. in an amount equal to the statutory withholding taxes for holders who vested in restricted stock and restricted stock units, and forfeitures of restricted stock for which consideration was paid in connection with termination of employment of certain employees (which totaled 1,811 shares in October, 1,977 shares in November and 1,973 shares in December). 

13 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 6.  Selected Financial Data. 
  (in millions of dollars, except per share and employee data) 

The Selected Financial Data should be read in conjunction with Item 7 and Item 8. 

14 

       Table of Contents  

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
    
    The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the other sections of this Annual Report on Form 10-K, including the consolidated financial statements and related notes contained in Item 8, and the discussion of cautionary factors that may affect future results in Item 1A.  
  Description of the Company 
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s wholly-owned subsidiaries included PM USA, which is engaged predominantly in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; Middleton, which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST, which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including USSTC and Ste. Michelle, is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Altria Group, Inc. s other operating companies included Nu Mark, a wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products, and PMCC, a wholly-owned subsidiary that maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases.  Other Altria Group, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to certain Altria Group, Inc. operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services LLC, which provides various support services in areas such as legal, regulatory, finance, human resources and external affairs, to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  In addition, Nu Mark and Middleton use third-party contract manufacturing arrangements in the manufacture of their products.  Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests.   
  At   December 31, 2015  ,  Altria Group, Inc. also held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller, which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.  Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.  On November 11, 2015, AB InBev announced its firm offer to effect a business combination with SABMiller in a cash and stock transaction.  For further discussion, see   Note 6  .  
  Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments are smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in an all other category due to the continued reduction of the lease portfolio of PMCC and the relative financial contribution of Altria  

Group, Inc. s innovative tobacco products businesses to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results. 
    Executive Summary 
  The following executive summary is intended to provide significant highlights of the Discussion and Analysis that follows. 
  Consolidated Results of Operations  
  The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) attributable to Altria Group, Inc. for the year ended   December 31, 2015  , from the year ended   December 31, 2014  , were due primarily to the following: 

See the discussion of events affecting the comparability of statement of earnings amounts in the Consolidated Operating Results section of the following Discussion and Analysis.  
             
    Fewer Shares Outstanding:    Fewer shares outstanding during 2015 compared with 2014 were due primarily to shares repurchased by Altria Group, Inc. under its share repurchase programs. 
                
    Change in Tax Rate:    The change in tax rate was due primarily to decreased recognition of foreign tax credits associated with SABMiller dividends.  
                
    Operations:    The increase of   $470 million   in operations shown in the table above was due primarily to the following: 
                
    higher income from the smokeable products and smokeless products segments; and  
                
    lower interest and other debt expense, net; 

15 

     Table of Contents  

     partially offset by: 
             
    lower earnings from Altria s equity investment in SABMiller. 
     For further details, see the Consolidated Operating Results and Operating Results by Business Segment sections of the following Discussion and Analysis. 
  2016 Forecasted Results 
  In January 2016, Altria Group, Inc. forecasted that its 2016 full-year adjusted diluted EPS growth rate is expected to be in the range of 7% to 9% over 2015 full-year adjusted diluted EPS.  This forecasted growth rate excludes the net expenses in the table below.  Altria Group, Inc. expects that its 2016 full-year effective tax rate on operations will be 35.3%.  This forecast does not include any impact from the anticipated AB InBev and SABMiller business combination, as the transaction remains subject to certain approvals and the closing date has not yet been determined.  In addition, the factors described in Item 1A represent continuing risks to this forecast. 
  Expense (Income), Net Excluded from Adjusted Diluted EPS 

1    Represents restructuring charges, substantially all of which are expected to be recorded in the first quarter of 2016 in connection with the productivity initiative announced in January 2016.  For further discussion of the productivity initiative, see Note 21.   Subsequent Event   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8. 
  Altria Group, Inc. reports its financial results in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ).  Altria Group, Inc. s management reviews certain financial results, including diluted EPS, on an adjusted basis, which excludes certain income and expense items that management believes are not part of underlying operations.  These items may include, for example, loss on early extinguishment of debt, restructuring charges, SABMiller special items, certain tax items, charges associated with tobacco and health litigation items, and settlements of, and determinations made in connection with, disputes with certain states and territories related to the NPM adjustment provision under the MSA (such settlements and determinations are referred to collectively as  NPM Adjustment Items  and are more fully described in   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  ).  Altria Group, Inc. s management does not view any of these special items to be part of Altria Group, Inc. s sustainable results as they may be highly variable, are difficult to predict and can distort underlying business trends and results.  Altria Group, Inc. s management also reviews income tax rates on an adjusted basis.  Altria  

Group, Inc. s effective tax rate on operations may exclude certain tax items from its reported effective tax rate.  Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that adjusted financial measures provide useful insight into underlying business trends and results and provide a more meaningful comparison of year-over-year results.  Adjusted financial measures are used by management and regularly provided to Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker for planning, forecasting and evaluating business and financial performance, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to employee compensation targets.  These adjusted financial measures are not consistent with U.S. GAAP and may not be calculated the same as similarly titled measures used by other companies.  These adjusted financial measures should thus be considered as supplemental in nature and not considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.   
  Altria Group, Inc. s full-year adjusted diluted EPS guidance and full-year forecast for its effective tax rate on operations exclude the impact of certain income and expense items, including those items noted in the preceding paragraph.  Altria Group, Inc. s management cannot estimate on a forward-looking basis the impact of these items on Altria Group, Inc. s reported diluted EPS and reported effective tax rate because these items, which could be significant, are difficult to predict and may be highly variable.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. does not provide a corresponding U.S. GAAP measure for, or reconciliation to, its adjusted diluted EPS guidance or its forecast for its effective tax rate on operations.  
  Discussion and Analysis 
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
  Note 2   includes a summary of the significant accounting policies and methods used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements.  In most instances, Altria Group, Inc. must use an accounting policy or method because it is the only policy or method permitted under U.S. GAAP. 
  The preparation of financial statements includes the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.  If actual amounts are ultimately different from previous estimates, the revisions are included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations for the period in which the actual amounts become known.  Historically, the aggregate differences, if any, between Altria Group, Inc. s estimates and actual amounts in any year have not had a significant impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  The following is a review of the more significant assumptions and estimates, as well as the accounting policies and methods, used in the preparation of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements: 

16 

     Table of Contents  

        Consolidation:    The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
     Revenue Recognition:    Altria Group, Inc. s businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers.  Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized.  Altria Group, Inc. s businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in net revenues.  Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales. 
     Depreciation, Amortization, Impairment Testing and Asset Valuation:    Altria Group, Inc. depreciates property, plant and equipment and amortizes its definite-lived intangible assets using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to 25 years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to 50 years. Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives up to 25 years. 
  Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.  Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists.  These analyses are affected by general economic conditions and projected growth rates.  For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable.  If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value.  Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.  Altria Group, Inc. also reviews the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed. 
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets recorded by Altria Group, Inc. at   December 31, 2015   relate primarily to the acquisitions of Green Smoke in 2014, UST in 2009 and Middleton in 2007.  Altria Group, Inc. conducts a required annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would require Altria Group, Inc. to perform an interim review.  If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, goodwill is considered impaired.  The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the implied fair value.  If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value,  

which is determined using discounted cash flows, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value. 
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, by reporting unit at   December 31, 2015   were as follows: 

During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. completed its quantitative annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and no impairment charges resulted. 
  At December 31, 2015: 
             
    the estimated fair values of all reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values;  
                
    the estimated fair values of the indefinite-lived intangible assets within the cigars and wine reporting units substantially exceeded their carrying values; and 
                
    in the smokeless products reporting unit, the estimated fair value of the   Copenhagen   trademark     substantially exceeded its carrying value, while the estimated fair values of the   Skoal   trademark     and certain other smokeless products trademarks (primarily   Red Seal   and   Husky  ) did not substantially exceed their carrying values. 
     At December 31, 2015, the estimated fair value of the   Skoal   trademark exceeded its carrying value of $3.9 billion by approximately 15%, and the estimated fair value of certain other smokeless products trademarks (primarily   Red Seal   and   Husky  ) exceeded their collective carrying value of $921 million by approximately 10%.  The 2015 results for   Skoal   continue to be impacted by a lower category growth rate and increased competitive activity.  USSTC continues to implement strategies to enhance   Skoal   s equity and to invest more efficiently in the brand.  USSTC expects these strategies to improve   Skoal   s profitability over the long term.    Red Seal   and   Husky   continue to be impacted by lower levels of promotional support on these brands, increased competitive activity in the discount category and sustained growth in popular priced products. 
  In 2015, Altria Group, Inc. used an income approach to estimate the fair values of substantially all of its reporting units and indefinite-lived intangible assets.  The income approach reflects the discounting of expected future cash flows to their present value at a rate of return that incorporates the risk-free rate for the use of those funds, the expected rate of inflation and the risks associated with realizing expected future cash flows.  The average discount rate used in performing the valuations was approximately 10%. 
  In performing the 2015 discounted cash flow analysis, Altria Group, Inc. made various judgments, estimates and assumptions, the most significant of which were volume,  

17 

     Table of Contents  

     income, growth rates and discount rates.  The analysis incorporated assumptions used in Altria Group, Inc. s long-term financial forecast, which is used by Altria Group, Inc. s management to evaluate business and financial performance, including allocating resources and evaluating results relative to setting employee compensation targets.  The assumptions incorporated the highest and best use of Altria Group, Inc. s indefinite-lived intangible assets and also included perpetual growth rates for periods beyond the long-term financial forecast.  The perpetual growth rate used in performing all of the valuations was 2%.  Fair value calculations are sensitive to changes in these estimates and assumptions, some of which relate to broader macroeconomic conditions outside of Altria Group, Inc. s control. 
  Although Altria Group, Inc. s discounted cash flow analysis is based on assumptions that are considered reasonable and based on the best available information at the time that the discounted cash flow analysis is developed, there is significant  
  judgment used in determining future cash flows.  The following factors have the most potential to impact expected future cash flows and, therefore, Altria Group, Inc. s impairment conclusions:  general economic conditions; federal, state and local regulatory developments; changes in category growth rates as a result of changing consumer preferences; success of planned product expansions; competitive activity; and tobacco-related taxes.  For further discussion of these factors, see   Operating Results by Business Segment   -   Tobacco Space   -   Business Environment   below. 
  While Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that the estimated fair values of each reporting unit and indefinite-lived intangible asset are reasonable, actual performance in the short-term or long-term could be significantly different from forecasted performance, which could result in impairment charges in future periods. 
  For additional information on goodwill and other intangible assets, see   Note 4  . 
     Marketing Costs:    Altria Group, Inc. s businesses promote their products with consumer engagement programs, consumer incentives and trade promotions.  Such programs include discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives, event marketing and volume-based incentives.  Consumer engagement programs are expensed as incurred.  Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues, a portion of which is based on amounts estimated as being due to wholesalers, retailers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical volume, utilization and redemption rates.  For interim reporting purposes, consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year. 
     Contingencies:    As discussed in   Note 18   and Item 3, legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM  

USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  In 1998, PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers entered into the MSA with 46 states and various other governments and jurisdictions to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims.  PM USA and certain other U.S. tobacco product manufacturers had previously entered into agreements to settle similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ).  PM USA s portion of ongoing adjusted payments and legal fees is based on its relative share of the settling manufacturers  domestic cigarette shipments, including roll-your-own cigarettes, in the year preceding that in which the payment is due.  PM USA, USSTC and Middleton were also subject to payment obligations imposed by FETRA.  The FETRA payment obligations expired after the third quarter of 2014.  In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA.  Payments under the State Settlement Agreements and the FDA user fees are based on variable factors, such as volume, operating income, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees as a component of cost of sales.  As a result of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded approximately $4.8 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.4 billion of charges to cost of sales for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.  The 2015, 2014 and 2013 amounts included reductions to cost of sales of $97 million, $43 million and $664 million, respectively, related to the NPM Adjustment Items discussed further below and in   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  .  In addition, the 2015 and 2014 amounts reflected decreases in the charge to cost of sales of approximately $300 million and $100 million, respectively, for the expiration of the obligations imposed by FETRA after the third quarter of 2014. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except to the extent discussed in   Note 18   and Item 3:  (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.  Litigation defense costs are expensed as incurred and included in marketing, administration and research costs on the consolidated statements of earnings.   
     Employee Benefit Plans:    As discussed in   Note 16  .   Benefit Plans   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note  

18 

     Table of Contents  

     16   ), Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pension, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits.  Altria Group, Inc. records annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP, which include various actuarial assumptions as to discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, mortality, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates.  Altria Group, Inc. reviews its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and makes modifications to the assumptions based on current rates and trends when it is deemed appropriate to do so.  Any effect of the modifications is generally amortized over future periods.   
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and records as a component of other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of deferred income taxes, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost. The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits recorded as components of other comprehensive earnings (losses) are subsequently amortized into net periodic benefit cost in future years.    
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. changed the approach used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement plans.  In 2015 and prior years, Altria Group, Inc. estimated the service and interest cost components using a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the pension and postretirement plans benefit obligations.  Beginning in 2016, Altria Group, Inc. will use a spot rate approach in the estimation of these components of net periodic benefit costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows, as Altria Group, Inc. believes that this approach provides a more precise estimate of service and interest costs.  Altria Group, Inc. is accounting for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate.  This change will not affect the measurement of Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement benefit obligations as the change in the service and interest costs will be offset by a corresponding change in actuarial gains/losses. 
  At December 31, 2015, Altria Group, Inc. s discount rate assumptions for its pension and postretirement plans obligations increased to 4.4% from 4.1% and 4.0%, respectively, at December 31, 2014.  Altria Group, Inc. presently anticipates a decrease of approximately $160 million in its 2016 pre-tax pension and postretirement expense versus 2015, not including amounts in each year, if any, related to termination, settlement and curtailment.  This anticipated decrease is due primarily to the impact of the change in approach used to estimate service and interest costs ($90 million) and the impact of the higher discount rate.  Assuming no change to the shape of the yield curve, a 50 basis point decrease in Altria Group, Inc. s discount rates would increase Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement expense by approximately $50 million, and a 50 basis point increase in Altria Group, Inc. s discount rates would  

decrease Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement expense by approximately $43 million.  Similarly, a 50 basis point decrease (increase) in the expected return on plan assets would increase (decrease) Altria Group, Inc. s pension expense by approximately $35 million.  See   Note 16   for a sensitivity discussion of the assumed health care cost trend rates. 
     Income Taxes:    Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions.  Altria Group, Inc. s deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  Altria Group, Inc. records a valuation allowance when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.    
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a benefit for uncertain tax positions when a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities.  The amount recognized is measured as the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.        Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes on its consolidated statements of earnings. 
  As discussed in   Note 14  .   Income Taxes   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 14   ), Altria Group, Inc. recognized income tax benefits and charges in the consolidated statements of earnings during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   as a result of various tax events. 
     Leasing:    Substantially all of PMCC s net revenues in   2015   related to income on leveraged leases and related gains on asset sales.  Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income, which is included in the line item finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances.  As discussed in   Note 7  , PMCC lessees are affected by bankruptcy filings, credit rating changes and financial market conditions. 
  PMCC s investment in leases is included in the line item finance assets, net, on the consolidated balance sheets as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  .  At   December 31, 2015  , PMCC s  
  net finance receivables of approximately $1.3 billion, which are included in finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet, consisted of rents receivable ($2.1 billion) and the residual value of assets under lease ($0.7 billion), reduced by third-party nonrecourse debt ($1.2 billion) and unearned income ($0.3 billion).  The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC.  As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt has been offset against the related rents receivable and has been presented on a net basis within finance assets, net, on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets.   

19 

     Table of Contents  

     Finance assets, net, of $1.2 billion at   December 31, 2015   also included an allowance for losses. 
  Estimated residual values represent PMCC s estimate at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms.  The estimated residual values are reviewed at least annually by PMCC s management, which includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry.  If necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values.  In 2015 and 2014, PMCC s review of estimated residual values resulted in a decrease of $65 million and $63 million, respectively, to unguaranteed residual values.  These decreases in unguaranteed residual values resulted in a reduction to PMCC s net revenues of   $41 million   and   $26 million   in 2015 and 2014, respectively.  There were no such adjustments in 2013. 
  PMCC considers rents receivable past due when they are beyond the grace period of their contractual due date.  PMCC stops recording income ( non-accrual status ) on rents receivable when contractual payments become 90 days past due or earlier if management believes there is significant uncertainty of collectability of rent payments, and resumes recording income when collectability of rent payments is reasonably certain.  Payments received on rents receivable that are on non-accrual status are used to reduce the rents receivable balance.  Write-offs to the allowance for losses are recorded when amounts are deemed to be uncollectible.  There were no rents receivable on non-accrual status at   December 31, 2015  . 
  To the extent that rents receivable due to PMCC may be uncollectible, PMCC records an allowance for losses against its finance assets.  Losses on such leases are recorded when probable and estimable.  PMCC regularly performs a systematic assessment of each individual lease in its portfolio to determine potential credit or collection issues that might indicate impairment.  Impairment takes into consideration both the probability of default and the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur.  PMCC considers both quantitative and qualitative factors of each investment when performing its assessment of the allowance for losses.  For further discussion, see   Note 7  . 

Consolidated Operating Results   

  As discussed further in   Note 15  , Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments is defined as operating income before amortization of intangibles and general corporate expenses.  Management believes it is appropriate to disclose this measure to help investors analyze the business performance and trends of the various business segments. 
  The following events that occurred during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   affected the comparability of statement of earnings amounts.  
     NPM Adjustment Items:        For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, pre-tax income for NPM Adjustment Items was recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows: 

The amounts shown in the table above for the smokeable products segment were recorded by PM USA as reductions to costs of sales, which increased operating companies income in the smokeable products segment.  For further discussion, see   Health  

20 

     Table of Contents  

     Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  . 
     Tobacco and Health Litigation Items:    For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, pre-tax charges related to certain tobacco and health litigations items were recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows: 

During 2015, PM USA recorded pre-tax charges in marketing, administration and research costs related to tobacco and health judgments in   seven   state   Engle   progeny lawsuits and   Schwarz   of   $59 million   and   $25 million  , respectively, as well as   $14 million   and $9 million, respectively, in interest costs related to these cases.  Additionally in 2015, PM USA and certain other cigarette manufacturers reached an agreement to resolve approximately   415   pending federal   Engle   progeny cases.  As a result of the agreement, PM USA recorded a pre-tax provision of approximately   $43 million   in marketing, administration and research costs.  For further discussion, see   Smoking and Health Litigation   in   Note 18  . 
  During 2014, Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA recorded an aggregate pre-tax charge of $31 million in marketing, administration and research costs for the estimated costs of implementing the corrective communications remedy in connection with the federal government s lawsuit against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.  For further discussion, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   in   Note 18  . 
     Asset Impairment, Exit, Integration and Acquisition-Related Costs:    Pre-tax asset impairment, exit, integration and acquisition-related costs for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $11 million, $21 million and $11 million, respectively. 
  For 2014, these costs consisted primarily of integration and acquisition-related costs of $28 million related to the acquisition of Green Smoke, partially offset by a pre-tax gain of   $10 million   from the sale of PM USA s Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility in 2014.  For further discussion of the Green Smoke acquisition, see Note 3. 
     Loss on Early Extinguishment of Debt:    During 2015 and 2013, Altria Group, Inc. completed debt tender offers to purchase for cash certain of its senior unsecured notes in aggregate principal amounts of   $0.8 billion   and   $2.1 billion  , respectively. 
  During 2014, UST redeemed in full its   $300 million   (aggregate principal amount)   5.75%   senior notes due 2018.   

As a result of the Altria Group, Inc. debt tender offers and the UST debt redemption, pre-tax losses on early extinguishment of debt were recorded as follows:   

For further discussion, see Note 9.   Long-Term Debt   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 ( Note 9 ). 
     SABMiller Special Items:    Altria Group, Inc. s earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller for 2015 included net pre-tax charges of $126 million, consisting primarily of Altria Group, Inc. s share of SABMiller s asset impairment charges. 
     Tax Items:    Tax items for 2015 primarily included the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest due primarily to the closure in August 2015 of the Internal Revenue Service audit of Altria Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries  2007-2009 tax years, partially offset by a reversal of foreign tax credits primarily associated with SABMiller dividends.  Tax items for 2014 included the reversal of tax accruals no longer required.  Tax items for 2013 included the reversal of tax accruals no longer required and the recognition of previously unrecognized foreign tax credits primarily associated with SABMiller dividends.  For further discussion, see   Note 14  .  
  2015 Compared with 2014 
  The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended   December 31, 2015  , with the year ended   December 31, 2014  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $912 million (3.7%), due primarily to higher net revenues in the smokeable products segment. 
  Cost of sales decreased $45 million (0.6%), due primarily to lower resolution expenses (due principally to the end of the federal tobacco quota buy-out payments after the third quarter of 2014) and higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2015, partially offset by higher manufacturing costs in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments. 
  Marketing, administration and research costs increased $169 million (6.7%), due primarily to higher costs in the smokeable products segment (which included higher tobacco and health litigation items).  
  Operating income increased $741 million (9.7%), due primarily to higher operating results from the smokeable products and smokeless products segments. 
  Interest and other debt expense, net, increased $9 million (1.1%), due primarily to interest income recorded during 2014 and the reversal of interest income recorded during 2015 as a result of the NPM Adjustment Items, and higher interest costs related to tobacco and health litigation items, mostly offset by  

21 

     Table of Contents  

     lower interest costs on debt as a result of debt refinancing activities in 2015 and 2014. 
  Earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller, which decreased $249 million (24.8%), were negatively affected by SABMiller special items and unfavorable currency impacts from a stronger U.S. dollar. 
  Net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $5,241 million increased $171 million (3.4%), due primarily to higher operating income, partially offset by lower earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller and higher losses on early extinguishment of debt.  Diluted and basic EPS attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $2.67, each increased by 4.3% due to higher net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. and fewer shares outstanding. 
  2014 Compared with 2013 
  The following discussion compares consolidated operating results for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , with the year ended   December 31, 2013  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, were essentially unchanged, due primarily to higher net revenues in all reportable segments, offset by lower gains on asset sales in the financial services business. 
  Excise taxes on products decreased $226 million (3.3%), due primarily to lower smokeable products shipment volume. 
  Cost of sales increased $579 million (8.0%), due primarily to higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013. 
  Marketing, administration and research costs increased $199 million (8.5%), due primarily to higher investment spending in the innovative tobacco products businesses, lower reductions to the allowance for losses in the financial services business and higher costs in the smokeable products segment.  
  Operating income decreased $464 million (5.7%), due primarily to lower operating results from the smokeable products segment (which reflected higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013), higher investment spending in the innovative tobacco products businesses and lower income from the financial services business, partially offset by higher operating results from the smokeless products segment. 
  Interest and other debt expense, net, decreased $241 million (23.0%) due primarily to lower interest costs on debt as a result of debt maturities in 2013 and 2014, and debt refinancing activities during 2013, as well as interest income recorded in 2014 as a result of the NPM Adjustment Items. 
  Net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $5,070 million increased $535 million (11.8%), due primarily to lower losses on early extinguishment of debt, lower interest and other debt expense, net, partially offset by lower operating income. Diluted and basic EPS attributable to Altria Group, Inc. of $2.56, each increased by 13.3% due to higher net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc. and fewer shares outstanding. 

Operating Results by Business Segment  
  Tobacco Space   
  Business Environment  
  Summary 
  The United States tobacco industry faces a number of business and legal challenges that have adversely affected and may adversely affect the business and sales volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position.  These challenges, some of which are discussed in more detail below, in Note 18, Item 1A and Item 3, include:  
             
    pending and threatened litigation and bonding requirements;  
                
    the requirement to issue  corrective statements  in various media in connection with the federal government s lawsuit;  
                
    restrictions and requirements imposed by the FSPTCA, and restrictions and requirements that have been, and in the future will be, imposed by the FDA;   
                
    actual and proposed excise tax increases, as well as changes in tax structures and tax stamping requirements;  
                
    bans and restrictions on tobacco use imposed by governmental entities and private establishments and employers;  
                
    other federal, state and local government actions, including:  
                
    increases in the minimum age to purchase tobacco products above the current federal minimum age of 18;  
                
    restrictions on the sale of tobacco products by certain retail establishments, the sale of certain tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes;  
                
    additional restrictions on the advertising and promotion of tobacco products;  
                
    other actual and proposed tobacco product legislation and regulation; and  
                
    governmental investigations;  
                
    the diminishing prevalence of cigarette smoking and increased efforts by tobacco control advocates and others (including employers and retail establishments) to further restrict tobacco use;  
                
    changes in adult tobacco consumer purchase behavior, which is influenced by various factors such as economic conditions, excise taxes and price gap relationships, may result in adult tobacco consumers switching to discount products or other lower priced tobacco products;   

22 

     Table of Contents  

the highly competitive nature of the tobacco categories in which our tobacco subsidiaries operate, including competitive disadvantages related to cigarette price increases attributable to the settlement of certain litigation;  
                
    illicit trade in tobacco products; and  
                
    potential adverse changes in tobacco leaf price, availability and quality.  
     In addition to and in connection with the foregoing, evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences pose challenges for Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries.  Our tobacco subsidiaries believe that a significant number of adult tobacco consumers switch between tobacco categories, use multiple forms of tobacco products and try innovative tobacco products, such as e-vapor products.  While the e-vapor category grew significantly in recent years, Nu Mark estimates a slowdown in growth during 2015.  
  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries work to meet these evolving adult tobacco consumer preferences over time by developing, manufacturing, marketing and distributing products both within and outside the United States through innovation and adjacency growth strategies (including, where appropriate, arrangements with, or investments in, third parties).  For example, Nu Mark entered the e-vapor category in 2013.  See the discussions regarding new product technologies, adjacency growth strategy and evolving consumer preferences in Item 1A for certain risks associated with the foregoing discussion. 
  We have provided additional detail on the following topics below:  
             
    FSPTCA and FDA Regulation;  
                
    Excise Taxes;  
                
    International Treaty on Tobacco Control;  
                
    State Settlement Agreements;  
                
    Other Federal, State and Local Regulation and Activity; 
                
    Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products;  
                
    Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products; and  
                
    Timing of Sales. 
     FSPTCA and FDA Regulation   
     The Regulatory Framework:    The FSPTCA expressly establishes certain restrictions and prohibitions on our cigarette and smokeless tobacco businesses and authorizes or requires further FDA action.  Under the FSPTCA, the FDA has broad authority to (1) regulate the design, manufacture, packaging, advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of cigarettes, cigarette tobacco and smokeless tobacco products; (2) require disclosures of related information; and (3) enforce the FSPTCA and related regulations.   
  Among other measures, the FSPTCA:  

imposes restrictions on the advertising, promotion, sale and distribution of tobacco products, including at retail; 
                
    bans descriptors such as  light,   mild  or  low  or similar descriptors when used as descriptors of modified risk unless expressly authorized by the FDA; 
                
    requires extensive product disclosures to the FDA and may require public disclosures;   
                
    prohibits any express or implied claims that a tobacco product is or may be less harmful than other tobacco products without FDA authorization;  
                
    imposes reporting obligations relating to contraband activity and grants the FDA authority to impose recordkeeping and other obligations to address illicit trade in tobacco products; 
                
    changes the language of the cigarette and smokeless tobacco product health warnings, enlarges their size and requires the development by the FDA of graphic warnings for cigarettes, and gives the FDA the authority to require new warnings;  
                
    authorizes the FDA to adopt product regulations and related actions, including imposing tobacco product standards that are appropriate for the protection of the public health (  e.g.  , related to the use of menthol in cigarettes, nicotine yields and other constituents or ingredients) and imposing manufacturing standards for tobacco products;  
                
    establishes pre-market review pathways for new and modified tobacco products, including: 
                
    authorizing the FDA to subject tobacco products that would be modified or first introduced into the market after March  22, 2011 to application and pre-market review and authorization requirements (the  New Product Application Process ) if the FDA does not find them, as a manufacturer may contend, to be  substantially equivalent  to products commercially marketed as of February 15, 2007, and possibly to deny any such new product application, thereby preventing the distribution and sale of any product affected by such denial; and 
                
    authorizing the FDA to determine that certain existing tobacco products modified or introduced into the market for the first time between February 15, 2007 and March 22, 2011 are not  substantially equivalent  to products commercially marketed as of February 15, 2007, in which case the FDA could require the removal of such products from the marketplace or subject them to the New Product Application Process and, if any such applications are denied, prevent the continued distribution and sale of such products (see   FDA Regulatory Actions   -   Substantial Equivalence and Other New Product Processes/Pathways   below); and  

23 

     Table of Contents  

equips the FDA with a variety of investigatory and enforcement tools, including the authority to inspect tobacco product manufacturing and other facilities. 
     In April 2014, the FDA issued proposed regulations for other tobacco products, which as proposed would include machine-made large cigars, e-vapor products, pipe tobacco and oral tobacco-derived nicotine products marketed and sold by some of our tobacco subsidiaries.  The proposed regulations would impose the FSPTCA regulatory framework on products manufactured, marketed and sold by Middleton and Nu Mark with potentially wide-ranging impact on their businesses.  See   FDA Regulatory Actions - Proposed Deeming Regulations   below. 
     Implementation Timing, Rulemaking and Guidance:     The implementation of the FSPTCA began in 2009 and will continue over time.  The provisions of the FSPTCA that require the FDA to take action through rulemaking generally involve consideration of public comment and, for some issues, scientific review.  From time to time, the FDA also issues guidance for public comment, which may be issued in draft or final form.  
  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries participate actively in processes established by the FDA to develop and implement the FSPTCA s regulatory framework, including submission of comments to various FDA proposals and participation in public hearings and engagement sessions. 
  The implementation of the FSPTCA and related regulations and guidance also may have an impact on enforcement efforts by states, territories and localities of the United States of their laws and regulations as well as of the State Settlement Agreements discussed below (see   State Settlement Agreements   below).  Such enforcement efforts may adversely affect our tobacco subsidiaries  ability to market and sell regulated tobacco products in those states, territories and localities. 
     Impact on Our Business; Compliance Costs and User Fees:    Regulations imposed and other regulatory actions taken by the FDA under the FSPTCA could have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries in a number of different ways. For example, actions by the FDA could:  
             
    impact the consumer acceptability of tobacco products;  
                
    delay, discontinue or prevent the sale or distribution of existing, new or modified tobacco products;  
                
    limit adult tobacco consumer choices;  
                
    impose restrictions on communications with adult tobacco consumers;  
                
    create a competitive advantage or disadvantage for certain tobacco companies;  
                
    impose additional manufacturing, labeling or packaging requirements; 
                
    impose additional restrictions at retail; 
                
    result in increased illicit trade in tobacco products; or 

otherwise significantly increase the cost of doing business.  
     The failure to comply with FDA regulatory requirements, even inadvertently, and FDA enforcement actions could also have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
  The FSPTCA imposes fees on tobacco product manufacturers and importers to pay for the cost of regulation and other matters.  The cost of the FDA user fee is allocated first among tobacco product categories subject to FDA regulation and then among manufacturers and importers within each respective category based on their relative market shares, all as prescribed by the statute and FDA regulations.  Payments for user fees are adjusted for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.  For a discussion of the impact of the FDA user fee payments on Altria Group, Inc., see   Financial Review - Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations - Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   below.  In addition, compliance with the FSPTCA s regulatory requirements has resulted and will continue to result in additional costs for our tobacco businesses.  The amount of additional compliance and related costs has not been material in any given quarter or year to date but could become material, either individually or in the aggregate, and will depend on the nature of the requirements imposed by the FDA. 
     Investigation and Enforcement:    The FDA has a number of investigatory and enforcement tools available to it, including document requests and other required information submissions, facility inspections, examinations and investigations, injunction proceedings, monetary penalties, product withdrawals and recalls, and product seizures.  The use of any of these investigatory or enforcement tools by the FDA could result in significant costs to the tobacco businesses of Altria Group, Inc. or otherwise have a material adverse effect on the business, consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries. 
             
    TPSAC 
                
    The     Role of the TPSAC  :  As required by the FSPTCA, the FDA has established a tobacco product scientific advisory committee (the  TPSAC ), which consists of voting and non-voting members, to provide advice, reports, information and recommendations to the FDA on scientific and health issues relating to tobacco products.   
                
    Challenge to TPSAC Membership  :  In February 2011, Lorillard Tobacco Company ( Lorillard ) and R.J. Reynolds filed suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the United States Department of Health and Human Services and individual defendants (sued in their official capacities) asserting that the composition of the TPSAC and the composition of the Constituents Subcommittee of the TPSAC violates several federal laws, including the Federal Advisory Committee Act, because four  

24 

     Table of Contents  

     of the voting members of the TPSAC have financial and other conflicts (including service as paid experts for plaintiffs in tobacco litigation).  In July 2014, the district court granted plaintiffs  summary judgment motion, in part, and denied defendants  summary judgment motion, ordering the FDA to reconstitute the TPSAC and barring defendants from relying on the TPSAC report on menthol, discussed below.  The FDA appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in September 2014.  On January 15, 2016, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit vacated the trial court s ruling on procedural grounds, finding that plaintiffs lacked standing to bring suit. 
             
    TPSAC Action on Menthol  :  As mandated by the FSPTCA, in March 2011, the TPSAC submitted to the FDA a report on the impact of the use of menthol in cigarettes on the public health and related recommendations.  The TPSAC report recommended, among other things, that the  [r]emoval of menthol cigarettes from the marketplace would benefit public health in the United States.   The TPSAC report noted the potential that any ban on menthol cigarettes could lead to an increase in contraband cigarettes and other potential unintended consequences and suggested that the FDA consult with appropriate experts on this matter.  
     In March 2011, PM USA submitted a report to the FDA outlining its position that neither science nor other evidence demonstrates that regulatory actions or restrictions related to the use of menthol cigarettes are warranted.  The report noted PM USA s belief that significant restrictions on the use of menthol cigarettes would have unintended consequences detrimental to public health and society.  The FDA has stated that the TPSAC report is only a recommendation, and, in July 2013, the FDA released its preliminary scientific evaluation on menthol, which states  that menthol cigarettes pose a public health risk above that seen with non-menthol cigarettes.   At the same time, the FDA also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking requesting comments on the FDA s preliminary scientific evaluation and information that may inform potential regulatory actions regarding menthol in cigarettes or other tobacco products.  In November 2013, PM USA submitted comments to the FDA raising a number of concerns with the preliminary scientific evidence and about unintended consequences detrimental to public health and society.  No future action can be taken by the FDA to regulate the manufacture, marketing or sale of menthol cigarettes (including a possible ban) until the completion of the rulemaking process.  
     Final Tobacco Marketing Rule:    As required by the FSPTCA, the FDA re-promulgated in March 2010 a wide range of advertising and promotion restrictions in substantially the same form as regulations that were previously adopted in 1996 (but never imposed on tobacco manufacturers due to a United States Supreme Court ruling) (the  Final Tobacco Marketing Rule ).  The Final Tobacco Marketing Rule: 
             
    bans the use of color and graphics in tobacco product labeling and advertising; 

prohibits the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco to underage persons;  
                
    restricts the use of non-tobacco trade and brand names on cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products;  
                
    requires the sale of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco in direct, face-to-face transactions;  
                
    prohibits sampling of cigarettes and prohibits sampling of smokeless tobacco products except in qualified adult-only facilities;  
                
    prohibits gifts or other items in exchange for buying cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products;   
                
    prohibits the sale or distribution of items such as hats and tee shirts with tobacco brands or logos; and  
                
    prohibits brand name sponsorship of any athletic, musical, artistic or other social or cultural event, or any entry or team in any event.  
     Subject to the limitations described below, the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule took effect in June 2010.  At the time of the re-promulgation of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule, the FDA also issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking regarding the so-called  1000 foot rule,  which would establish restrictions on the placement of outdoor tobacco advertising in relation to schools and playgrounds.  PM USA and USSTC submitted comments on this advance notice. 
  Since enactment, several lawsuits have been filed challenging various provisions of the FSPTCA and the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule, including their constitutionality and the scope of the FDA s authority thereunder.  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries are not parties to any of these lawsuits.  As a result of one such challenge (  Commonwealth Brands  ), the portion of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule that bans the use of color and graphics in labeling and advertising is unenforceable by the FDA.  For a further discussion of the Final Tobacco Marketing Rule and the status of graphic warnings for cigarette packages and advertising, see   FDA Regulatory Actions - Graphic Warnings   below. 
  In a separate lawsuit that challenged the constitutionality of an FDA regulation that restricts tobacco manufacturers from using the trade or brand name of a non-tobacco product on cigarettes or smokeless tobacco products, the case was dismissed without prejudice pursuant to a stipulation by which the FDA agreed not to enforce the current or any amended trade name rule against plaintiffs until at least 180 days after rulemaking on the amended rule concludes.      This relief only applies to plaintiffs in the case.  However, in May 2010, the FDA issued guidance on the use of non-tobacco trade and brand names applicable to all cigarette and smokeless tobacco product manufacturers.  This guidance indicated the FDA s intention not to commence enforcement actions under the regulation while it considers how to address the concerns raised by various manufacturers.  In November 2011, the FDA proposed an amended rule, but has not yet issued a final rule. 

25 

     Table of Contents  

FDA Regulatory Actions 
                
    Graphic Warnings  :  In June 2011, as required by the FSPTCA, the FDA issued its final rule to modify the required warnings that appear on cigarette packages and in cigarette advertisements.  The FSPTCA requires the warnings to consist of nine new textual warning statements accompanied by color graphics depicting the negative health consequences of smoking.  The graphic health warnings will (i) be located beneath the cellophane, and comprise the top 50% of the front and rear panels of cigarette packages and (ii) occupy 20% of a cigarette advertisement and be located at the top of the advertisement.  After a legal challenge to the rule initiated by R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and several other plaintiffs, in which plaintiffs prevailed both at the federal trial and appellate levels, the FDA decided not to seek further review of the U.S. Court of Appeals  decision and announced its plans to propose a new graphic warnings rule in the future.  
                
    Substantial Equivalence and Other New Product Processes/Pathways  :  In January 2011, the FDA issued guidance concerning reports that manufacturers must submit for certain FDA-regulated tobacco products that the manufacturer modified or introduced for the first time into the market after February 15, 2007.  These reports must be reviewed by the FDA to determine if such tobacco products are  substantially equivalent  to products commercially available as of February 15, 2007.  In general, in order to continue marketing the products commercially available before March 22, 2011, manufacturers of FDA-regulated tobacco products were required to send to the FDA a report demonstrating substantial equivalence by March 22, 2011.  PM USA and USSTC submitted timely reports.  PM USA and USSTC can continue marketing these products unless the FDA makes a determination that a specific product is not substantially equivalent.  If the FDA ultimately makes such a determination, it could require the removal of such products from the marketplace or subject them to the New Product Application Process and, if any such applications are denied, prevent the continued distribution and sale of such products.    While PM USA and USSTC believe that all of their current products meet the statutory requirements of the FSPTCA, they cannot predict whether, when or how the FDA ultimately will apply its guidance to their various respective substantial equivalence reports or seek to enforce the law and regulations consistent with its guidance. 
     Manufacturers intending to introduce new products and certain modified products into the market after March 22, 2011 must submit a report to the FDA and obtain a  substantial equivalence order  from the FDA before introducing the products into the market.  If the FDA declines to issue a so-called  substantial equivalence order  for a product or if the manufacturer itself determines that the product does not meet the substantial equivalence requirements, the product would need to undergo the New Product Application Process.  

The FDA began announcing its decisions on substantial equivalence reports in the second quarter of 2013.  However, there are a significant number of substantial equivalence reports for which the FDA has not announced decisions.  At this time, it is not possible to predict how long reviews by the FDA of substantial equivalence reports or new product applications will take.   Not substantially equivalent  determinations could have a material adverse impact on the business results of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  In March 2015, the FDA issued a document entitled  Guidance for Industry: Demonstrating the Substantial Equivalence of a New Tobacco Product:  Responses to Frequently Asked Questions  ( Substantial Equivalence Guidance ).  In that document, the FDA announced that (i) certain label changes and (ii) changes to the quantity of tobacco product(s) in a package would each require submission of newly required substantial equivalence reports and authorization from the FDA prior to marketing tobacco products with such changes, even when the tobacco product itself is not changed.  PM USA and USSTC market various products that fall within the scope of the Substantial Equivalence Guidance.  
  In April 2015, PM USA, USSTC and other tobacco product manufacturers filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the FDA, the United States Department of Health and Human Services, and the heads of both agencies seeking to declare these new requirements invalid and to enjoin defendants from enforcing them.  In May 2015, the FDA announced that it was continuing to consider the Substantial Equivalence Guidance in light of comments received and that it would not enforce the requirements under such guidance until further notice.  In light of the FDA s announcement, the plaintiffs dismissed the pending lawsuit without prejudice in June 2015.     
  In September 2015, the FDA issued a second edition of the Substantial Equivalence Guidance (the  Revised SE Guidance ), which continues to require FDA pre-authorization for certain label changes and for product quantity changes.  PM USA, USSTC and other tobacco product manufacturers filed a new lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against the same defendants named in the prior suit seeking to declare the requirements of the Revised SE Guidance invalid and to enjoin defendants from enforcing them.  On October 30, 2015, plaintiffs filed a motion for summary judgment.  Defendants opposed the motion for summary judgment and moved to dismiss the complaint on December 8, 2015.  
             
    Good Manufacturing Practices  :  The FSPTCA requires that the FDA promulgate good manufacturing practice regulations (referred to by the FDA as  Requirements for Tobacco Product Manufacturing Practice ) for tobacco product manufacturers, but does not specify a timeframe for such regulations.  
                
    Proposed Deeming Regulations  :  As noted above in   FSPTCA and FDA Regulation - The Regulatory Framework  , the FDA  

26 

     Table of Contents  

     proposed     regulations in April 2014 that would impose the FSPTCA regulatory framework on machine-made large cigars, e-vapor products, pipe tobacco and chewable tobacco-derived nicotine products.  Nu Mark and Middleton submitted comments on the proposed regulations in August 2014.  Nu Mark s submission covers a number of topics, including its perspective on (1) the guiding principles that the FDA should follow to help ensure successful implementation of the deeming regulation, (2) the potential for e-vapor products and other tobacco-derived nicotine products to reduce tobacco-related harm and (3) the establishment of product approval pathways that encourage innovation of potentially reduced harm products.  Middleton s comments covered its perspective on the overall regulation of cigars and on the use of the word  mild  in the   Black   Mild   brand name.  The proposed regulations suggested that the FDA may apply the descriptor prohibition to cigars and pipe tobacco, which could potentially prohibit the use of the word  Mild  in the   Black   Mild   brand name.  As reflected in the comments, Middleton believes neither the FDA s regulatory authority nor the First or Fifth Amendments to the United States Constitution allow the FDA to ban words such as  mild  regardless of the context and that the FDA can only prohibit the word  mild  when used as a descriptor of modified risk.  
  Excise Taxes 
  Tobacco products are subject to substantial excise taxes in the United States.  Significant increases in tobacco-related taxes or fees have been proposed or enacted (including with respect to e-vapor products) and are likely to continue to be proposed or enacted at the federal, state and local levels within the United States.  
  Federal, state and local excise taxes have increased substantially over the past decade, far outpacing the rate of inflation.  By way of example, in 2009, the federal excise tax ( FET ) on cigarettes increased from $0.39 per pack to approximately $1.01 per pack, in 2010, the New York state excise tax increased by $1.60 to $4.35 per pack and in October 2014, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania enacted a $2.00 per pack local cigarette excise tax.  Between the end of 1998 and February 22, 2016, the weighted-average state and certain local cigarette excise taxes increased from $0.36 to $1.54 per pack.  During 2015, Alabama, Nevada, Kansas, Vermont, Louisiana, Ohio, Rhode Island and Connecticut enacted legislation to increase their cigarette excise taxes.  As of February 22, 2016, no state has increased its cigarette excise tax in 2016.  The Federal Budget released by the President in February 2016 proposes significant increases in the FET for all tobacco products.  The proposed budget would increase the FET on a pack of cigarettes by $0.94 per pack, raising the total FET to $1.95 per pack, and would also increase the tax on other tobacco products by a proportionate amount. It is not possible to predict whether this proposed FET increase will be enacted. 
  Tax increases are expected to continue to have an adverse impact on sales of the tobacco products of our tobacco  

subsidiaries through lower consumption levels and the potential shift in adult consumer purchases from the premium to the non-premium or discount segments or to other low-priced or low-taxed tobacco products or to counterfeit and contraband products.  Such shifts may have an adverse impact on the sales volume and reported share performance of tobacco products of Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries. 
  A majority of states currently tax smokeless tobacco products using an ad valorem method, which is calculated as a percentage of the price of the product, typically the wholesale price. This ad valorem method results in more tax being paid on premium products than is paid on lower-priced products of equal weight.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries support legislation to convert ad valorem taxes on smokeless tobacco to a weight-based methodology because, unlike the ad valorem tax, a weight-based tax subjects cans of equal weight to the same tax.  As of February 22, 2016, the federal government, 22 states, Puerto Rico, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Cook County, Illinois have adopted a weight-based tax methodology for smokeless tobacco.   
  International Treaty on Tobacco Control  
  The World Health Organization s Framework Convention on Tobacco Control (the  FCTC ) entered into force in February 2005.  As of February 22, 2016, 179 countries, as well as the European Community, have become parties to the FCTC.  While the United States is a signatory of the FCTC, it is not currently a party to the agreement, as the agreement has not been submitted to, or ratified by, the United States Senate.  The FCTC is the first international public health treaty and its objective is to establish a global agenda for tobacco regulation with the purpose of reducing initiation of tobacco use and encouraging cessation.  The treaty recommends (and in certain instances, requires) signatory nations to enact legislation that would, among other things:  establish specific actions to prevent youth tobacco product use; restrict or eliminate all tobacco product advertising, marketing, promotion and sponsorship; initiate public education campaigns to inform the public about the health consequences of tobacco consumption and exposure to tobacco smoke and the benefits of quitting; implement regulations imposing product testing, disclosure and performance standards; impose health warning requirements on packaging; adopt measures intended to combat tobacco product smuggling and counterfeit tobacco products, including tracking and tracing of tobacco products through the distribution chain; and restrict smoking in public places. 
  There are a number of proposals currently under consideration by the governing body of the FCTC, some of which call for substantial restrictions on the manufacture, marketing, distribution and sale of tobacco products.  In addition, the Protocol to Eliminate Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products (the  Protocol ) was approved by the Conference of Parties to the FCTC in November 2012.  It includes provisions related to the tracking and tracing of tobacco products through the distribution chain and numerous other provisions regarding the regulation of the manufacture, distribution and sale of tobacco products.  The Protocol has not yet entered into force, but in any event will not  

27 

     Table of Contents  

     apply to the United States until the Senate ratifies the FCTC and until the President signs, and the Senate ratifies, the Protocol.  It is not possible to predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact of any FCTC actions on legislation or regulation in the United States, either indirectly or as a result of the United States becoming a party to the FCTC, or whether or how these actions might indirectly influence FDA regulation and enforcement.  
  State Settlement Agreements 
  As discussed in Note 18, during 1997 and 1998, PM USA and other major domestic tobacco product manufacturers entered into the State Settlement Agreements.  These settlements require participating manufacturers to make substantial annual payments, which are adjusted for several factors, including inflation, operating income, market share and industry volume.  For a discussion of the impact of the State Settlement Agreements on Altria Group, Inc., see   Financial Review - Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations - Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   below and Note 18.   The State Settlement Agreements also place numerous requirements and restrictions on participating manufacturers  business operations, including prohibitions and restrictions on the advertising and marketing of cigarettes and smokeless tobacco products.  Among these are prohibitions of outdoor and transit brand advertising, payments for product placement and free sampling (except in adult-only facilities).  Restrictions are also placed on the use of brand name sponsorships and brand name non-tobacco products.  The State Settlement Agreements also place prohibitions on targeting youth and the use of cartoon characters.  In addition, the State Settlement Agreements require companies to affirm corporate principles directed at reducing underage use of cigarettes; impose requirements regarding lobbying activities; mandate public disclosure of certain industry documents; limit the industry s ability to challenge certain tobacco control and underage use laws; and provide for the dissolution of certain tobacco-related organizations and place restrictions on the establishment of any replacement organizations. 
  In November 1998, USSTC entered into the Smokeless Tobacco Master Settlement Agreement (the  STMSA ) with the attorneys general of various states and United States territories to resolve the remaining health care cost reimbursement cases initiated against USSTC.  The STMSA required USSTC to adopt various marketing and advertising restrictions.  USSTC is the only smokeless tobacco manufacturer to sign the STMSA.  
  Other Federal, State and Local Regulation and Activity 
     Federal, State and Local Regulation:    A number of states and localities have enacted or proposed legislation that imposes restrictions on tobacco products (including innovative tobacco products, such as e-vapor products), such as legislation that (1) prohibits the sale of certain tobacco products with certain characterizing flavors, (2) requires the disclosure of health information separate from or in addition to federally-mandated health warnings and (3) restricts commercial speech or imposes additional restrictions on the marketing or sale of tobacco  

products (including proposals to ban all tobacco product sales or to increase the legal age to purchase tobacco products above the current federal minimum age requirement of 18).  The legislation varies in terms of the type of tobacco products, the conditions under which such products are or would be restricted or prohibited, and exceptions to the restrictions or prohibitions. For example, a number of proposals involving characterizing flavors would prohibit smokeless tobacco products with characterizing flavors without providing an exception for mint- or wintergreen-flavored products. 
  Whether other states or localities will enact legislation in these areas, and the precise nature of such legislation if enacted, cannot be predicted.  Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries have challenged and will continue to challenge certain state and local legislation, including through litigation.  
     Health Effects of Tobacco Consumption and Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke ( ETS ):   Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries believe that the public should be guided by the messages of the United States Surgeon General and public health authorities worldwide in making decisions concerning the use of tobacco products. 
  Reports with respect to the health effects of smoking have been publicized for many years, including in a January 2014 United States Surgeon General report titled  The Health Consequences of Smoking - 50 Years of Progress  and in a June 2006 United States Surgeon General report on ETS titled  The Health Consequences of Involuntary Exposure to Tobacco Smoke.  
  Most jurisdictions within the United States have restricted smoking in public places.  Some public health groups have called for, and various jurisdictions have adopted or proposed, bans on smoking in outdoor places, in private apartments and in cars transporting minors.  It is not possible to predict the results of ongoing scientific research or the types of future scientific research into the health risks of tobacco exposure and the impact of such research on regulation.  
     Other Legislation or Governmental Initiatives:    In addition to the actions discussed above, other regulatory initiatives affecting the tobacco industry have been adopted or are being considered at the federal level and in a number of state and local jurisdictions.  For example, in recent years, legislation has been introduced or enacted at the state or local level to subject tobacco products to various reporting requirements and performance standards (such as reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards); establish educational campaigns relating to tobacco consumption or tobacco control programs, or provide additional funding for governmental tobacco control activities; restrict the sale of tobacco products in certain retail establishments and the sale of tobacco products in certain package sizes; require tax stamping of MST products; require the use of state tax stamps using data encryption technology; and further restrict the sale, marketing and advertising of cigarettes and other tobacco products.  Such legislation may be subject to constitutional or other challenges on various grounds, which may or may not be successful. 

28 

     Table of Contents  

     It is not possible to predict what, if any, additional legislation, regulation or other governmental action will be enacted or implemented (and, if challenged, upheld) relating to the manufacturing, design, packaging, marketing, advertising, sale or use of tobacco products, or the tobacco industry generally.  It is possible, however, that legislation, regulation or other governmental action could be enacted or implemented that would materially adversely affect the business and volume of our tobacco subsidiaries and our consolidated results of operations and cash flows. 
     Governmental Investigations:    From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries are subject to governmental investigations on a range of matters.  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries cannot predict whether new investigations may be commenced.  
  Illicit Trade in Tobacco Products 
  Illicit trade in tobacco products can have an adverse impact on the businesses of Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries.  Illicit trade can take many forms, including the sale of counterfeit tobacco products; the sale of tobacco products in the United States that are intended for sale outside the country; the sale of tobacco products over the Internet and by other means designed to avoid the collection of applicable taxes; and diversion into one taxing jurisdiction of tobacco products intended for sale in another.  Counterfeit tobacco products, for example, are manufactured by unknown third parties in unregulated environments.  Counterfeit versions of PM USA, USSTC or Middleton products can negatively affect adult tobacco consumer experiences with and opinions of those brands.  Illicit trade in tobacco products also harms law-abiding wholesalers and retailers by depriving them of lawful sales and undermines the significant investment Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries have made in legitimate distribution channels.  Moreover, illicit trade in tobacco products results in federal, state and local governments losing tax revenues.  Losses in tax revenues can cause such governments to take various actions, including increasing excise taxes; imposing legislative or regulatory requirements that may adversely impact Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations and cash flows and the businesses of its tobacco subsidiaries; or asserting claims against manufacturers of tobacco products or members of the trade channels through which such tobacco products are distributed and sold. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its tobacco subsidiaries devote significant resources to help prevent illicit trade in tobacco products and to protect legitimate trade channels.  For example, Altria Group, Inc. s tobacco subsidiaries are engaged in a number of initiatives to help prevent illicit trade in tobacco products, including communication with wholesale and retail trade members regarding illicit trade in tobacco products and how they can help prevent such activities; enforcement of wholesale and retail trade programs and policies that address illicit trade in tobacco products; engagement with and support of law enforcement and regulatory agencies; litigation to protect their trademarks; and support for a variety of federal and state  

legislative initiatives.  Legislative initiatives to address illicit trade in tobacco products are designed to protect the legitimate channels of distribution, impose more stringent penalties for the violation of illegal trade laws and provide additional tools for law enforcement.  Regulatory measures and related governmental actions to prevent the illicit manufacture and trade of tobacco products continue to evolve as the nature of illicit tobacco products evolves. 
  Price, Availability and Quality of Agricultural Products 
  Shifts in crops (such as those driven by economic conditions and adverse weather patterns), government mandated prices and production control programs may increase or decrease the cost or reduce the supply or quality of tobacco and other agricultural products used to manufacture our products.  As with other agriculture commodities, the price of tobacco leaf can be influenced by economic conditions and imbalances in supply and demand and crop quality and availability can be influenced by variations in weather patterns, including those caused by climate change.  Tobacco production in certain countries is subject to a variety of controls, including government mandated prices and production control programs.  Changes in the patterns of demand for agricultural products and the cost of tobacco production could impact tobacco leaf prices and tobacco supply.  Any significant change in the price, quality or availability of tobacco leaf or other agricultural products used to manufacture our products could adversely affect our subsidiaries  profitability and businesses.  
  Timing of Sales 
  In the ordinary course of business, our tobacco subsidiaries are subject to many influences that can impact the timing of sales to customers, including the timing of holidays and other annual or special events, the timing of promotions, customer incentive programs and customer inventory programs, as well as the actual or speculated timing of pricing actions and tax-driven price increases. 
    Operating Results 
  The following table summarizes operating results for the smokeable and smokeless products segments:   

  Smokeable Products Segment 
  The smokeable products segment s net revenues, operating companies income and operating companies income margin  

29 

     Table of Contents  

     increased during   2015   due primarily to higher pricing.  PM USA grew   Marlboro   s and its total cigarette retail share versus 2014.   
  The following table summarizes the smokeable products segment shipment volume performance: 

Cigarettes shipment volume includes   Marlboro  ; Other premium brands, such as   Virginia Slims  ,   Parliament   and   Benson   Hedges  ; and Discount brands, which include   L M   and   Basic.    Cigarettes volume includes units sold as well as promotional units, but excludes units sold for distribution to and in Puerto Rico, and units sold in U.S. Territories, to overseas military and by Philip Morris Duty Free Inc., none of which, individually or in the aggregate, is material to the smokeable products segment. 
  The following table summarizes the smokeable products segment retail share performance:   

  Retail share results for cigarettes are based on data from IRI/Management Science Associate Inc., a tracking service that uses a sample of stores and certain wholesale shipments to project market share and depict share trends.  Retail share results for cigars are based on data from IRI InfoScan, a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share and depict share trends.  Both services track sales in the food, drug and mass merchandisers (including Wal-Mart), convenience, military, dollar store and club trade classes.  For  

other trade classes selling cigarettes, retail share is based on shipments from wholesalers to retailers through the Store Tracking Analytical Reporting System ( STARS ).  These services are not designed to capture sales through other channels, including the internet, direct mail and some illicitly tax-advantaged outlets.  Retail share results for cigars are based on data for machine-made large cigars.  Middleton defines machine-made large cigars as cigars, made by machine, that weigh greater than three pounds per thousand, except cigars sold at retail in packages of 20 cigars.  Because the cigars service represents retail share performance only in key trade channels, it should not be considered a precise measurement of actual retail share.  It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released in these services.     
  PM USA and Middleton executed the following pricing and promotional allowance actions during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  :  
     Effective November 15, 2015, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette brands by $0.07 per pack. 
     Effective May 17, 2015, PM USA increased the list price on all of its cigarette brands by $0.07 per pack. 
     Effective November 16, 2014, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   L M   by $0.07 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.07 per pack. 
     Effective May 11, 2014, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   Marlboro   and   L M   by $0.06 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.06 per pack, except for   Parliament  , which PM USA increased by $0.11 per pack.    
     Effective December 1, 2013, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   Marlboro   and   L M   by $0.07 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.07 per pack.    
     Effective June 10, 2013, PM USA reduced its wholesale promotional allowance on   Marlboro   and   L M   by $0.06 per pack.  In addition, PM USA increased the list price on all of its other cigarette brands by $0.06 per pack.    
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeable products segment for the year ended   December 31, 2015   with the year ended   December 31, 2014  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers,  increased $853 million (3.9%), due primarily to higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments, and higher shipment volume ($133 million). 
  Operating companies income increased $696 million (10.1%), due primarily to higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments, lower resolution expenses (due principally to the end of the federal tobacco quota buy-out payments after the third quarter of 2014), higher shipment volume  

30 

     Table of Contents  

     ($68 million) and higher NPM Adjustment Items in   2015   ($54 million).  These factors were partially offset by higher costs (due primarily to higher pension and benefit costs, and marketing, administration and research costs) and higher tobacco and health litigation items ($100 million).  
  Marketing, administration and research costs for the smokeable products segment include PM USA s cost of administering and litigating product liability claims.  Litigation defense costs are influenced by a number of factors, including the number and types of cases filed, the number of cases tried annually, the results of trials and appeals, the development of the law controlling relevant legal issues, and litigation strategy and tactics.  For further discussion on these matters, see   Note 18   and Item 3.  For the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , product liability defense costs for PM USA were $228 million, $230 million and $247 million, respectively.  The factors that have influenced past product liability defense costs are expected to continue to influence future costs.  PM USA does not expect future product liability defense costs to be significantly different from product liability defense costs incurred in the last few years. 
  For   2015  , total smokeable products reported shipment volume increased 0.5% versus 2014.  PM USA s   2015   reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume increased 0.5%, due to a moderation in the industry s decline rate and retail share gains.  When adjusted for trade inventory movements and other factors, PM USA estimates that its   2015   domestic cigarettes shipment volume increased approximately 0.5%, and that total industry cigarette volumes declined approximately 0.5%.   
  PM USA s shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 91.2% of its reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume for   2015  , versus 91.8% for 2014. 
  Middleton s reported cigars shipment volume for   2015   increased 4.2%, driven primarily by   Black   Mild   in the tipped cigars segment. 
    Marlboro   s retail share for   2015   increased 0.2 share points versus 2014. 
  PM USA grew its total retail share for   2015   by 0.4 share points versus 2014, due to gains by   Marlboro   and   L M   in Discount, partially offset by share losses on other portfolio brands.   
  In the machine-made large cigars category,     while   Black   Mild   s retail share for   2015   declined 1.0 share point,   Black   Mild   gained retail share in the more profitable tipped cigars segment.  
       The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeable products segment for the year ended December 31, 2014 with the year ended December 31, 2013. 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $71 million (0.3%), due primarily to higher pricing, partially offset by lower shipment volume ($724 million). 
  Operating companies income decreased $190 million (2.7%), due primarily to higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013 ($621 million), lower shipment volume ($360 million) and higher  

marketing, administration and research costs, partially offset by higher pricing.      
  For 2014, total smokeable products reported shipment volume decreased 2.9% versus 2013.  PM USA s 2014 reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased 3.0%, due primarily to the industry s decline, partially offset by retail share gains.  When adjusted for trade inventory changes and other factors, PM USA estimates that its 2014 domestic cigarettes shipment volume decreased approximately 3%, and that total industry cigarette volumes declined approximately 3.5%.   
  PM USA s shipments of premium cigarettes accounted for 91.8% of its reported domestic cigarettes shipment volume for 2014, versus 92.1% for 2013. 
  Middleton s reported cigars shipment volume for 2014 increased 6.1%, driven by   Black   Mild   s performance in the tipped cigars segment, including   Black   Mild   Jazz. 
    Marlboro   s retail share for 2014 increased 0.1 share point versus 2013. 
  PM USA grew its total retail share for 2014 by 0.2 share points versus 2013, driven by   Marlboro  ,     and   L M   in Discount, partially offset by share losses on other portfolio brands.  In the fourth quarter of 2014, PM USA expanded distribution of   Marlboro   Menthol Rich Blue to 28 states, primarily in the eastern U.S., to enhance   Marlboro   s position in the menthol segment.  
    In the machine-made large cigars category,   Black   Mild   s retail share for 2014 declined 0.5 share points.  In December 2014, Middleton announced the national expansion of   Black   Mild   Casino, a dark tobacco blend, in the tipped segment. 
  Smokeless Products Segment 
  During   2015  , the smokeless products segment grew net revenues and operating companies income, primarily through higher pricing.  USSTC increased   Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined retail share versus 2014.  
  The following table summarizes smokeless products segment shipment volume performance:     

Smokeless products shipment volume includes cans and packs sold, as well as promotional units, but excludes international volume, which is not material to the smokeless products segment.  Other includes certain USSTC and PM USA smokeless products.  New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can-for-can basis.  To calculate volumes of cans and packs shipped, one pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is assumed to be equivalent to one can of MST.   

31 

     Table of Contents  

     The following table summarizes smokeless products segment retail share performance (excluding international volume):    

    Retail share results for smokeless products are based on data from IRI InfoScan, a tracking service that uses a sample of stores to project market share and depict share trends.  The service tracks sales in the food, drug and mass merchandisers (including Wal-Mart), convenience, military, dollar store and club trade classes on the number of cans and packs sold.  Smokeless products is defined by IRI as moist smokeless and spit-free tobacco products.  Other includes certain USSTC and PM USA smokeless products.  New types of smokeless products, as well as new packaging configurations of existing smokeless products, may or may not be equivalent to existing MST products on a can-for-can basis.  One pack of snus, irrespective of the number of pouches in the pack, is assumed to be equivalent to one can of MST.  All other products are considered to be equivalent on a can-for-can basis.  Because this service represents retail share performance only in key trade channels, it should not be considered a precise measurement of actual retail share.  It is IRI s standard practice to periodically refresh its InfoScan services, which could restate retail share results that were previously released in this service.   
  USSTC executed the following pricing actions during   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  :  
     Effective December 8, 2015, USSTC increased the list price on   Copenhagen   and   Skoal   popular price products by $0.12 per can. In addition, USSTC increased the list price on all its brands, except for   Copenhagen   and   Skoal   popular price products, by $0.07 per can. 
     Effective May 5, 2015, USSTC increased the list price on all its brands by $0.07 per can. 
     Effective November 25, 2014, USSTC increased the list price on all its brands by $0.07 per can. 
     Effective May 11, 2014, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.06 per can. 
     Effective December 8, 2013, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.06 per can.  
     Effective May 12, 2013, USSTC increased the list price on all of its brands by $0.05 per can. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeless products segment for the year ended   December 31, 2015   with the year ended   December 31, 2014  . 

Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $70 million (3.9%), due primarily to higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments. 
  Operating companies income increased $47 million (4.4%), due primarily to higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments, partially offset by higher costs.  
  The smokeless products segment s reported domestic shipment volume for   2015   increased 2.5% as volume growth in   Copenhagen   was     partially offset by declines in   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands.    Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined reported domestic shipment volume increased 3.4% for   2015  . 
  After adjusting for trade inventory movements and other factors, USSTC estimates that its domestic smokeless products shipment volume grew approximately 2.5% for 2015.  USSTC estimates that the smokeless products category volume grew approximately 2.5% over the six months ended December 31, 2015 as compared with approximately 2.0% for the six months ended December 31, 2014.  
  Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined retail share increased 0.3 share points to 51.3% for 2015.    Copenhagen   s retail share     increased 0.9 share points and   Skoal   s retail share declined 0.6 share points. 
  Total smokeless products retail share declined 0.1 share point to 54.9%. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the smokeless products segment for the year ended December 31, 2014 with the year ended December 31, 2013. 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $31 million (1.7%), due primarily to higher pricing, which includes higher promotional investments, and higher volume, partially offset by mix due to growth in popular priced products. 
  Operating companies income increased $38 million (3.7%), due primarily to higher pricing ($43 million), which includes higher promotional investments, and higher volume ($9 million), partially offset by product mix.  
  Reported domestic smokeless products shipment volume for 2014 increased 0.7% as volume growth for   Copenhagen   was     mostly offset by volume declines in   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands.    Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined reported shipment volume increased 1.2% for 2014. 
  After adjusting for trade inventory changes and other factors, USSTC estimates that domestic smokeless products shipment volume grew approximately 2.5% for 2014.   USSTC estimates that the smokeless products category volume grew approximately 2.0% over the six months ended December 31, 2014 as compared with approximately 6.0% for the six months ended December 31, 2013.  
  Copenhagen   and   Skoal   s combined retail share increased 0.3 share points to 51.0% for 2014.    Copenhagen   s retail share     increased 1.3 share points, while   Skoal   s retail share declined 1.0 share point. 
  Retail share for the smokeless products segment increased 0.1 share point to 55.0%, as retail share gains for   Copenhagen   were mostly offset by share losses for   Skoal   and Other portfolio brands.  

32 

Wine Segment 
  Business Environment  
  Ste. Michelle is a leading producer of Washington state wines, primarily   Chateau Ste. Michelle  ,   Columbia Crest   and   14 Hands  , and owns wineries in or distributes wines from several other domestic and foreign wine regions.  Ste. Michelle holds an 85% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori, LLC, which owns   Stag s Leap Wine Cellars   in Napa Valley.  Ste. Michelle also owns   Conn Creek   in Napa Valley and   Erath   in Oregon.  In addition, Ste. Michelle imports and markets   Antinori  ,   Torres   and   Villa Maria Estate   wines and   Champagne Nicolas Feuillatte   in the United States.  Key elements of Ste. Michelle s strategy are expanded domestic distribution of its wines, especially in certain account categories such as restaurants, wholesale clubs, supermarkets, wine shops and mass merchandisers, and a focus on improving product mix to higher-priced, premium products.  
  Ste. Michelle s business is subject to significant competition, including competition from many larger, well-established domestic and international companies, as well as from many smaller wine producers.  Wine segment competition is primarily based on quality, price, consumer and trade wine tastings, competitive wine judging, third-party acclaim and advertising.  Substantially all of Ste. Michelle s sales occur in the United States through state-licensed distributors.  Ste. Michelle also sells to domestic consumers through retail and e-commerce channels and exports wines to international distributors. 
  Federal, state and local governmental agencies regulate the beverage alcohol industry through various means, including licensing requirements, pricing rules, labeling and advertising restrictions, and distribution and production policies.  Further regulatory restrictions or additional excise or other taxes on the manufacture and sale of alcoholic beverages may have an adverse effect on Ste. Michelle s wine business. 
    Operating Results  
  Ste. Michelle s net revenues and operating companies income increased in 2015, due primarily to higher shipment volume and improved premium mix.  Ste. Michelle expanded its operating companies income margin in 2015.  The following table summarizes operating results for the wine segment: 

The following table summarizes wine segment case shipment volume performance: 

The following discussion compares operating results for the wine segment for the year ended   December 31, 2015   with the year ended   December 31, 2014  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, increased $49 million (7.6%), due primarily to higher shipment volume and improved premium mix.  Operating companies income increased $18 million (13.4%), due primarily to higher shipment volume and improved premium mix, partially offset by higher costs. 
  For   2015  , Ste. Michelle s reported wine shipment volume increased 6.2%. 
  The following discussion compares operating results for the wine segment for the year ended   December 31, 2014   with the year ended   December 31, 2013  . 
  Net revenues, which include excise taxes billed to customers, and operating companies income increased $34 million (5.6%) and $16 million (13.6%), respectively, due primarily to higher shipment volume. 
  For 2014, Ste. Michelle s reported wine shipment volume increased 4.8% driven by increased volume of   14 Hands   and   Chateau Ste. Michelle  , partially offset by declines in Other brands. 
    Financial Review 
  Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities 
  During   2015  , net cash provided by operating activities was   $5.8 billion   compared with   $4.7 billion   during   2014  .  This increase was due primarily to the following:  
             
    higher net revenues in the smokeable products segment in 2015; and 
                
    the end of the federal tobacco quota buy-out payments after the third quarter of 2014; 
     partially offset by: 
   During   2014  , net cash provided by operating activities was   $4.7 billion   compared with   $4.4 billion   during   2013  .  This increase was due primarily to the following:  

Table of Contents  

a voluntary $350 million contribution to Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans during 2013; 
       partially offset by: 
             
    higher income tax payments in 2014, resulting primarily from the loss on early extinguishment of debt in 2013; and 
                
    higher settlement payments during 2014, driven primarily by the impact of higher NPM Adjustment Items in 2013.   
     Altria Group, Inc. had a working capital deficit at December 31, 2015 and   2014  .  Altria Group, Inc. s management believes that it has the ability to fund these working capital deficits with cash provided by operating activities and/or short-term borrowings under its commercial paper program as discussed in the   Debt and Liquidity   section below. 
  Net Cash Used in/Provided by Investing Activities 
  During   2015  , net cash used in investing activities was   $15 million   compared with net cash provided by investing activities of   $177 million   during   2014  .  This change was due primarily to the following: 
              
    the sale of PM USA s Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility during 2014; and  
                
    higher capital expenditures during 2015, due primarily to a new USSTC manufacturing facility in Hopkinsville, Kentucky that is expected to be completed in 2016;  
     partially offset by: 
             
    Nu Mark s acquisition of the e-vapor business of Green Smoke during 2014. 
     During   2014  , net cash provided by investing activities was   $177 million   compared with   $602 million   during   2013  .  This decrease was due primarily to the following: 
             
    lower proceeds from asset sales in the financial services business during 2014; and 
                
    Nu Mark s acquisition of the e-vapor business of Green Smoke during 2014. 
     Capital expenditures for   2015   increased 40.5% to   $229 million  , due primarily to the new USSTC manufacturing facility noted above.  Capital expenditures for 2016 are expected to be in the range of $140 million to $180 million, and are expected to be funded from operating cash flows.  The decrease in expected capital expenditures in 2016 compared with 2015 is due primarily  

to higher capital expenditures during 2015 for the new USSTC manufacturing facility expected to be completed in 2016.    
  Net Cash Used in Financing Activities 
  During   2015  , net cash used in financing activities was   $6.7 billion   compared with   $4.7 billion   during 2014.  This increase was due primarily to the following: 
             
    debt tender offer completed during 2015, which resulted in the repurchase of $793 million of senior unsecured long-term notes and a $226 million payment of premiums and fees, as more fully described in Note 9; 
                
    $1.0 billion repayment of Altria Group, Inc. senior unsecured notes at scheduled maturity in 2015;  
       partially offset by: 
             
    $525 million repayment of Altria Group, Inc. senior unsecured notes at scheduled maturity in 2014;  
       During   2014  , net cash used in financing activities was   $4.7 billion  , essentially unchanged compared to 2013, which primarily reflected the following: 
             
    higher repayments of debt in 2013 driven primarily by the repurchase of senior unsecured notes in connection with the 2013 debt tender offer; and 
      offset by: 
             
    debt issuances of $3.2 billion in 2013 used to repurchase senior unsecured notes in connection with the 2013 debt tender offer; 
        higher share repurchases during 2014; and 
     higher dividends paid during 2014. 

34 

     Table of Contents  

     Debt and Liquidity  
  Credit Ratings   - Altria Group, Inc. s cost and terms of financing and its access to commercial paper markets may be impacted by applicable credit ratings.  Under the terms of certain of Altria Group, Inc. s existing debt instruments, a change in a credit rating could result in an increase or a decrease of the cost of borrowings.  For instance, as discussed in   Note 9  , the interest rate payable on certain of Altria Group, Inc. s outstanding notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) or Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ) is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the notes.  The impact of credit ratings on the cost of borrowings under Altria Group, Inc. s credit agreement is discussed below.  
  At   December 31, 2015  , the credit ratings and outlook for Altria Group, Inc. s indebtedness by major credit rating agencies were: 
                              
    Short-term 
  Debt 
      
    Long-term 
  Debt 
      
    Outlook 
      Moody s 
    P-2 
      
    Baa1 
      
    Stable 
      Standard   Poor s 
    A-2 
      
    BBB+ 
      
    Stable 
      Fitch Ratings Ltd. 
    F2 
      
    BBB+ 
      
    Stable 

Credit Lines   - From time to time, Altria Group, Inc. has short-term borrowing needs to meet its working capital requirements and generally uses its commercial paper program to meet those needs.  At December 31, 2015,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. had   no   short-term borrowings.   
   During the third quarter of 2015, Altria Group, Inc. entered into an extension agreement (the  Extension Agreement ) to amend its   $3.0 billion   senior unsecured   5  -year revolving credit agreement, dated as of August 19, 2013 (the  Credit Agreement ).  The Extension Agreement extends the expiration date of the Credit Agreement from August 19, 2019 to August 19, 2020 pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.  All other terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The Credit Agreement was previously amended in 2014 to extend the expiration date from August 19, 2018 to August 19, 2019. 
  Pricing for interest and fees under the Credit Agreement may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt.  Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement are expected to be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage based on the higher of the ratings of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Moody s and Standard   Poor s.  The applicable percentage based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at   December 31, 2015   for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was   1.25%  .  The Credit Agreement does not include any other rating triggers, nor does it contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.  At   December 31, 2015  , credit available to Altria Group, Inc. under the Credit Agreement was $3.0 billion.   

The Credit Agreement is used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances.  The Credit Agreement requires that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) of not more than   3.0   to 1.0 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than   4.0   to 1.0, each calculated as of the end of the applicable quarter on a rolling four quarters basis.  At   December 31, 2015  , the ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement, were   1.4   to 1.0 and   11.7   to 1.0, respectively.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to meet its covenants associated with the Credit Agreement.  The terms  consolidated EBITDA,   debt  and  consolidated interest expense,  as defined in the Credit Agreement, include certain adjustments.  Exhibit 99.3 to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2013 sets forth the definitions of these terms as they appear in the Credit Agreement and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Any commercial paper issued by Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 19   ). 
    Financial Market Environment   - Altria Group, Inc. believes it has adequate liquidity and access to financial resources to meet its anticipated obligations and ongoing business needs in the foreseeable future.  Altria Group, Inc. continues to monitor the credit quality of its bank group and is not aware of any potential non-performing credit provider in that group.  Altria Group, Inc. believes the lenders in its bank group will be willing and able to advance funds in accordance with their legal obligations. See Item 1A for certain risk factors associated with the foregoing discussion.  
  Debt   - At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s total debt was   $12.9 billion   and   $14.7 billion  , respectively. 
  As discussed in Note 9, during 2015, Altria Group, Inc. repaid in full at maturity senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of   $1.0 billion  .  Additionally, during 2015, Altria Group, Inc. completed a debt tender offer to purchase for cash $793 million aggregate principal amount of its senior unsecured 9.700% notes due 2018. 
  All of Altria Group, Inc. s debt was fixed-rate debt at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  .  The weighted-average coupon  
  interest rate on total debt was approximately   5.5%   and  
  5.7% at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively.  For further details on long-term debt, see   Note 9  . 
  In October 2014, Altria Group, Inc. filed a registration statement on Form S-3 with the SEC, under which Altria Group, Inc. may offer debt securities or warrants to purchase debt securities from time to time over a three-year period  
  from the date of filing. 

35 

     Table of Contents  

   Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Aggregate Contractual Obligations 
  Altria Group, Inc. has no off-balance sheet arrangements, including special purpose entities, other than guarantees and contractual obligations that are discussed below. 
  Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   - As discussed in   Note 18  , Altria Group, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries had unused letters of credit obtained in the ordinary course of business, guarantees (including third-party guarantees) and a redeemable noncontrolling interest outstanding at   December 31, 2015  .  From time to time, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. also issue lines of credit to affiliated entities.  In addition, as discussed in   Note 19  , PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program.  These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity. 
  Aggregate Contractual Obligations   - The following table summarizes Altria Group, Inc. s contractual obligations at   December 31, 2015  : 

(1)    Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt. 
   (2)    Amounts represent the expected cash payments of Altria Group, Inc. s interest expense on its long-term debt. Interest on Altria Group, Inc. s debt, which was all fixed-rate debt at   December 31, 2015  , is presented using the stated coupon interest rate.  Amounts exclude the amortization of debt discounts and premiums, the amortization of loan fees and fees for lines of credit that would be included in interest and other debt expense, net on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
   (3)    Amounts represent the minimum rental commitments under non-cancelable operating leases. 
   (4)    Purchase obligations for inventory and production costs (such as raw materials, indirect materials and supplies, packaging, storage and distribution) are commitments for projected needs to be used in the normal course of business.  Other purchase obligations include commitments for marketing, capital expenditures, information technology and professional services.  Arrangements are considered purchase obligations if a contract specifies all significant terms, including fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased, a pricing structure and approximate timing of the transaction.  Most arrangements are cancelable without a significant penalty, and with short notice (usually 30 days).  Any amounts reflected on the consolidated balance sheet as accounts payable and accrued liabilities are excluded from the table above. 
   (5)    Other long-term liabilities consist of accrued postretirement health care costs and certain accrued pension costs.  The amounts included in the table above for accrued pension costs consist of the actuarially determined anticipated minimum funding requirements for each year from 2016 through 2020.  Contributions beyond 2020 cannot be reasonably estimated and, therefore, are not included in the table above.  In addition, the following long-term liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are excluded from the table above: accrued postemployment costs, income taxes and tax contingencies, and other accruals.  Altria Group, Inc. is unable to estimate the timing of payments for these items. 
    The State Settlement Agreements and related legal fee payments, and payments for FDA user fees, as discussed below and in   Note 18   and Item 3, are excluded from the table above, as the payments are subject to adjustment for several factors, including inflation, operating income, market share and industry volume.  Litigation escrow deposits, as discussed below and in   Note 18  , are also excluded from the table above since these deposits will be returned to PM USA should it prevail on appeal.   
  Payments Under State Settlement and Other Tobacco Agreements, and FDA Regulation   - As discussed previously and in   Note 18   and Item 3, PM USA has entered into State Settlement  

Agreements with the states and territories of the United States that call for certain payments.  PM USA, Middleton and USSTC were also subject to payment obligations imposed by FETRA.  The FETRA payment obligations expired after the third quarter of 2014.  In addition, in June 2009, PM USA and USSTC became subject to quarterly user fees imposed by the FDA as a result of the FSPTCA.  Payments under the State Settlement Agreements and the FDA user fees are based on variable factors, such as volume, operating income, market share and inflation, depending on the subject payment.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries account for the cost of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA  

36 

     Table of Contents  

     user fees as a component of cost of sales.  As a result of the State Settlement Agreements, FETRA and FDA user fees, Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries recorded approximately $4.8 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.4 billion of charges to cost of sales for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  The 2015, 2014 and 2013 amounts included reductions to cost of sales of $97 million, $43 million and $664 million, respectively, for the NPM Adjustment Items.  In addition, the 2015 and 2014 amounts reflected decreases in the charge to cost of sales of approximately $300 million and $100 million, respectively, for the expiration of the obligations imposed by FETRA after the third quarter of 2014. 
  In connection with the settlement with the 24 signatory states of certain NPM Adjustment disputes under the MSA, the formula for allocating the revised NPM Adjustments applicable to the signatory states for 2013 and subsequent years among the tobacco product manufacturers that are original signatories to the MSA ( OPMs ) has been modified in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments.  Similarly, in connection with the settlement with New York of certain NPM Adjustment disputes under the MSA, the formula for allocating among the OPMs the revised NPM Adjustments applicable to New York for years after 2014 has been modified in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments.  For a detailed discussion of settlements of, and determinations made in connection with, disputes with certain states and territories related to the NPM Adjustment provision under the MSA for the years 2003-2012, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in Note 18. 
  Based on current agreements, 2015 market share and historical annual industry volume decline rates, the estimated amounts that Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries may charge to cost of sales for payments related to State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees approximate $4.9 billion in 2016 and each year thereafter.  The increase in these amounts compared with approximately $4.8 billion charged to cost of sales in 2015 reflects the impact of the NPM Adjustments recorded in 2015.  These amounts exclude the potential impact of the NPM Adjustment provision applicable under the MSA and the revised NPM Adjustment provisions applicable under the settlements of the NPM Adjustment disputes with the 24 signatory states and with New York, respectively, for years after 2014 discussed above.   
  The estimated amounts due under the State Settlement Agreements charged to cost of sales in each year would generally be paid in the following year.  The amounts charged to cost of sales for FDA user fees are generally paid in the quarter in which the fees are incurred.  As previously stated, the payments due under the terms of the State Settlement Agreements and FDA user fees are subject to adjustment for several factors, including volume, operating income, inflation and certain contingent events and, in general, are allocated based on each manufacturer s market share.  The future payment amounts discussed above are estimates, and actual payment amounts will differ to the extent underlying assumptions differ from actual future results. 

Litigation-Related Deposits and Payments   - With respect to certain adverse verdicts currently on appeal, to obtain stays of judgments pending appeals, as of   December 31, 2015  , PM USA had posted various forms of security totaling approximately $77 million, the majority of which have been collateralized with cash deposits.  These cash deposits are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 
  Although litigation is subject to uncertainty and an adverse outcome or settlement of litigation could have a  material adverse effect on the financial position, cash flows or results of operations of PM USA, UST or Altria Group, Inc. in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year, as more fully disclosed in   Note 18  , Item 3 and Item 1A, management expects cash flow from operations, together with Altria Group, Inc. s access to capital markets, to provide sufficient liquidity to meet ongoing business needs. 
  Equity and Dividends 
  As discussed in   Note 11  .   Stock Plans   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 (   Note 11   ), during   2015   Altria Group, Inc. granted an aggregate of   1.2 million   shares of restricted stock units (also known as deferred stock) to eligible employees. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the number of shares to be issued upon vesting of restricted stock units was not significant.  
  Dividends paid in   2015   and   2014   were approximately   $4.2 billion   and   $3.9 billion  , respectively, an increase of   7.4%  , reflecting a higher dividend rate, partially offset by fewer shares outstanding as a result of shares repurchased by Altria Group, Inc. under its share repurchase programs.   
  During the third quarter of   2015  , the Board of Directors approved an   8.7%   increase in the quarterly dividend rate to   $0.565   per common share versus the previous rate of   $0.52   per common share.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to maintain a dividend payout ratio target of approximately 80% of its adjusted diluted EPS.  The current annualized dividend rate is   $2.26   per Altria Group, Inc. common share.  Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
  During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   the Board of Directors authorized Altria Group, Inc. to repurchase shares of its outstanding common stock under several share repurchase programs.       
  At December 31,   2015  , Altria Group, Inc. had approximately   $965 million   remaining in the July 2015 share repurchase program, which it expects to complete by the end of 2016.  For further discussion of Altria Group, Inc. s share repurchase programs, see   Note 10  .   Capital Stock   to the consolidated financial statements in Item 8 and Part II, Item 5. Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 

37 

     Table of Contents  

     Recent Accounting Guidance Not Yet Adopted 
  See Note 2     for a discussion of recent accounting guidance issued but not yet adopted. 
  Contingencies 
  See   Note 18   and Item 3 for a discussion of contingencies. 
    Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  . 
  At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt was   $14.5 billion   and   $17.0 billion  , respectively.  The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s debt is subject to fluctuations resulting from changes in market interest rates.  A 1% increase in market interest rates at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   would decrease the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.1 billion and $1.3 billion, respectively.  A 1% decrease in market interest rates at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   would increase the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total debt by approximately $1.3 billion and $1.5 billion, respectively. 
  Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement are expected to be based on LIBOR plus a percentage based on the higher of the ratings of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Moody s and Standard   Poor s.  The applicable percentage based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at   December 31, 2015   for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was 1.25%.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. had   no   borrowings under the Credit Agreement. 
  At December 31, 2015, the fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s derivative financial instrument in the form of a put option (the  option ) included in other current assets was $152 million.  A 10% devaluation of the United States dollar against the British pound would decrease the fair value of the option by approximately $97 million, with a corresponding decrease to Altria Group, Inc. s pre-tax earnings.  A 10% appreciation of the United States dollar against the British pound would increase the fair value of the option by approximately $172 million, with a corresponding increase to Altria Group, Inc. s pre-tax earnings.      

38 

       Table of Contents  

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
    
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ________________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

39 

     Table of Contents  

Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars, except share and per share data) 
  ____________________________________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

40 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data) 
  ____________________________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

41 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _______________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

42 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  __________________ 

See notes to consolidated financial statements. 

43 

       Table of Contents  

   Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity 
  (in millions of dollars, except per share data) 
  ____________________________________ 

(1)    Net losses attributable to noncontrolling interests for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   exclude net earnings of   $5 million  ,   $3 million   and   $3 million  , respectively, due to the redeemable noncontrolling interest related to Stag s Leap Wine Cellars, which is reported in the mezzanine equity section in the consolidated balance sheets at   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  See   Note 18  . 
    
  See notes to consolidated financial statements. 
      
  44 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Note 1  .      Background and Basis of Presentation 
     Background:   At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s  wholly-owned subsidiaries included Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), which is engaged predominantly in the manufacture and sale of cigarettes in the United States; John Middleton Co. ( Middleton ), which is engaged in the manufacture and sale of machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco, and is a wholly-owned subsidiary of PM USA; and UST LLC ( UST ), which through its wholly-owned subsidiaries, including U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC ( USSTC ) and Ste. Michelle Wine Estates Ltd. ( Ste. Michelle ), is engaged in the manufacture and sale of smokeless tobacco products and wine.  Altria Group, Inc. s other operating companies included Nu Mark LLC ( Nu Mark ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that is engaged in the manufacture and sale of innovative tobacco products, and Philip Morris Capital Corporation ( PMCC ), a wholly-owned subsidiary that maintains a portfolio of finance assets, substantially all of which are leveraged leases.  Other Altria Group, Inc. wholly-owned subsidiaries included Altria Group Distribution Company, which provides sales, distribution and consumer engagement services to certain Altria Group, Inc. operating subsidiaries, and Altria Client Services LLC, which provides various support services in areas such as legal, regulatory, finance, human resources and external affairs to Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries.  Altria Group, Inc. s access to the operating cash flows of its wholly-owned subsidiaries consists of cash received from the payment of dividends and distributions, and the payment of interest on intercompany loans by its subsidiaries.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s principal wholly-owned subsidiaries were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. also held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller plc ( SABMiller ), which Altria Group, Inc. accounts for under the equity method of accounting.  Altria Group, Inc. receives cash dividends on its interest in SABMiller if and when SABMiller pays such dividends.  On November 11, 2015, Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV ( AB InBev ) announced its firm offer to effect a business combination with SABMiller in a cash and stock transaction.  For further discussion, see   Note 6  .   Investment in SABMiller  . 
     Basis of Presentation:   The consolidated financial statements include Altria Group, Inc., as well as its wholly-owned and majority-owned subsidiaries.  Investments in which Altria Group, Inc. has the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for under the equity method of accounting.  All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent liabilities at the dates of the financial statements and the reported amounts of net revenues  

and expenses during the reporting periods.  Significant estimates and assumptions include, among other things, pension and benefit plan assumptions, lives and valuation assumptions for goodwill and other intangible assets, marketing programs, income taxes, and the allowance for losses and estimated residual values of finance leases.  Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
    Note 2  .  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
     Cash and Cash Equivalents:   Cash equivalents include demand deposits with banks and all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less.  Cash equivalents are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates fair value. 
     Depreciation, Amortization, Impairment Testing and Asset Valuation:   Property, plant and equipment are stated at historical costs and depreciated by the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets.  Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods up to   25   years, and buildings and building improvements over periods up to   50   years.  Definite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives up to   25   years. 
  Altria Group, Inc. reviews long-lived assets, including definite-lived intangible assets, for impairment whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the assets may not be fully recoverable.  Altria Group, Inc. performs undiscounted operating cash flow analyses to determine if an impairment exists.  For purposes of recognition and measurement of an impairment for assets held for use, Altria Group, Inc. groups assets and liabilities at the lowest level for which cash flows are separately identifiable.  If an impairment is determined to exist, any related impairment loss is calculated based on fair value.  Impairment losses on assets to be disposed of, if any, are based on the estimated proceeds to be received, less costs of disposal.  Altria Group, Inc. also reviews the estimated remaining useful lives of long-lived assets whenever events or changes in business circumstances indicate the lives may have changed. 
  Altria Group, Inc. conducts a required annual review of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment, and more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would require Altria Group, Inc. to perform an interim review.  If the carrying value of goodwill exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, goodwill is considered impaired.  The amount of impairment loss is measured as the difference between the carrying value and the implied fair value.  If the carrying value of an indefinite-lived intangible asset exceeds its fair value, which is determined using discounted cash flows, the intangible asset is considered impaired and is reduced to fair value.   
     Derivative Financial Instruments:   Derivative financial instruments are recorded at fair value on the consolidated balance sheets as either assets or liabilities.  Changes in the fair value of derivatives are recorded each period either in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) or in earnings, depending on the  

45 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     type of derivative and whether the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting treatment.  Gains and losses on derivative instruments reported in accumulated other comprehensive earnings (losses) are reclassified to the consolidated statements of earnings in the periods in which operating results are affected by the respective hedged item.  Cash flows from hedging instruments are classified in the same manner as the respective hedged item in the consolidated statements of cash flows.  Altria Group, Inc. does not enter into or hold derivative financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
     Employee Benefit Plans:   Altria Group, Inc. provides a range of benefits to its employees and retired employees, including pension, postretirement health care and postemployment benefits.  Altria Group, Inc. records annual amounts relating to these plans based on calculations specified by U.S. GAAP, which include various actuarial assumptions as to discount rates, assumed rates of return on plan assets, mortality, compensation increases, turnover rates and health care cost trend rates. 
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on the consolidated balance sheet and records as a component of other comprehensive earnings (losses), net of deferred income taxes, the gains or losses and prior service costs or credits that have not been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost.  The gains or losses and prior service costs or credits recorded as components of other comprehensive earnings (losses) are subsequently amortized into net periodic benefit cost in future years. 
     Environmental Costs:   Altria Group, Inc. is subject to laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment. Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change. 
  Compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation and compliance costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows (see   Note 18  .   Contingencies   -   Environmental Regulation  ). 
     Fair Value Measurements:   Altria Group, Inc. measures certain assets and liabilities at fair value.  Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date.  Altria Group, Inc. uses a fair value hierarchy, which gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities (Level 1 measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs (Level 3 measurements).  The three levels of inputs used to measure fair value are: 
           Level 1 
    Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 

Level 2 
    Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
              Level 3 
    Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
        Finance Leases:   Income attributable to leveraged leases is initially recorded as unearned income and subsequently recognized as revenue over the terms of the respective leases at constant after-tax rates of return on the positive net investment balances.  Investments in leveraged leases are stated net of related nonrecourse debt obligations. 
  Finance leases include unguaranteed residual values that represent PMCC s estimates at lease inception as to the fair values of assets under lease at the end of the non-cancelable lease terms.  The estimated residual values are reviewed at least annually by PMCC s management.  This review includes analysis of a number of factors, including activity in the relevant industry.  If necessary, revisions are recorded to reduce the residual values.  
  PMCC considers rents receivable past due when they are beyond the grace period of their contractual due date.  PMCC stops recording income ( non-accrual status ) on rents receivable when contractual payments become   90   days past due or earlier if management believes there is significant uncertainty of collectability of rent payments, and resumes recording income when collectability of rent payments is reasonably certain.  Payments received on rents receivable that are on non-accrual status are used to reduce the rents receivable balance.  Write-offs to the allowance for losses are recorded when amounts are deemed to be uncollectible. 
     Guarantees:   Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a liability for the fair value of the obligation of qualifying guarantee activities.  See   Note 18  . Contingencies   for a further discussion of guarantees. 
     Income Taxes:   Significant judgment is required in determining income tax provisions and in evaluating tax positions. 
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse.  Altria Group, Inc. records a valuation allowance when it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of a deferred tax asset will not be realized.  
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes a benefit for uncertain tax positions when a tax position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return is more-likely-than-not to be sustained upon examination by taxing authorities.  The amount recognized is measured as   the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement.    Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the provision for income taxes on its consolidated statements of earnings. 

46 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

        Inventories:   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market.  The last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method is used to determine the cost of substantially all tobacco inventories.  The cost of the remaining inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out and average cost methods.  It is a generally recognized industry practice to classify leaf tobacco and wine inventories as current assets although part of such inventory, because of the duration of the curing and aging process, ordinarily would not be used within one year. 
     Litigation Contingencies and Costs:   Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when it is determined that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  Litigation defense costs are expensed as incurred and included in marketing, administration and research costs on the consolidated statements of earnings. 
     Marketing Costs:   Altria Group, Inc. s businesses promote their products with consumer engagement programs, consumer incentives and trade promotions.  Such programs include discounts, coupons, rebates, in-store display incentives, event marketing and volume-based incentives.  Consumer engagement programs are expensed as incurred.  Consumer incentive and trade promotion activities are recorded as a reduction of revenues, a portion of which is based on amounts estimated as being due to wholesalers, retailers and consumers at the end of a period, based principally on historical volume, utilization and redemption rates.  For interim reporting purposes, consumer engagement programs and certain consumer incentive expenses are charged to operations as a percentage of sales, based on estimated sales and related expenses for the full year. 
     Revenue Recognition:   Altria Group, Inc. s businesses recognize revenues, net of sales incentives and sales returns, and including shipping and handling charges billed to customers, upon shipment of goods when title and risk of loss pass to customers.  Payments received in advance of revenue recognition are deferred and recorded in other accrued liabilities until revenue is recognized.  Altria Group, Inc. s businesses also include excise taxes billed to customers in net revenues.  Shipping and handling costs are classified as part of cost of sales. 
     Stock-Based Compensation:   Altria Group, Inc. measures compensation cost for all stock-based awards at fair value on date of grant and recognizes compensation expense over the service periods for awards expected to vest.  The fair value of restricted stock and restricted stock units (also known as deferred stock) is determined based on the number of shares granted and the market value at date of grant. 
     New Accounting Standards:     In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued authoritative guidance for recognizing revenue from contracts with customers.  The objective of this guidance is to establish principles for reporting information about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from an entity s contracts with customers.  As a result of an August 2015 FASB  

update, the new guidance will be effective for Altria Group, Inc. for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period.  Early adoption is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period.  Altria Group, Inc. is in the process of evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 
  In April 2015, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify the presentation of debt issuance costs by requiring that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented on the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts, rather than as a deferred charge (an asset).  For Altria Group, Inc., the new guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2015, including interim periods within that reporting period.  The guidance requires all prior period balance sheets to be adjusted retrospectively and early adoption is permitted.  Altria Group, Inc. will adopt the new guidance in the first quarter of 2016.  At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had   $72 million   and   $83 million  , respectively, of debt issuance costs included in other assets on its consolidated balance sheets.  
  In November 2015, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring that deferred tax liabilities and assets be classified as noncurrent in a classified statement of financial position.  This guidance does not change the current requirement that deferred tax liabilities and assets for each tax-paying jurisdiction be offset and presented as a single amount.  For Altria Group, Inc., the new guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within that reporting period.  Early adoption is permitted.  The guidance may be applied either prospectively to all deferred tax liabilities and assets or retrospectively to all periods presented.  Altria Group, Inc. will adopt the new guidance by the first quarter of 2017.  Under the new guidance, at   December 31, 2015  , current deferred income tax assets of approximately   $1.2 billion   would have been reclassified to noncurrent deferred income tax liabilities (  $1.0 billion  ) and noncurrent deferred income tax assets (  $0.2 billion  ).  
    On January 5, 2016, the FASB issued authoritative guidance to address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments.  For Altria Group, Inc., the new guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period.  Early adoption of the guidance is not permitted, except for a certain provision of the guidance.  Altria Group, Inc. is in the process of evaluating the impact of this guidance on its consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 
    Note 3  .  Acquisition of Green Smoke 
  In April 2014, Nu Mark acquired the e-vapor business of Green Smoke, Inc. and its affiliates ( Green Smoke ) for a total purchase price of approximately   $130 million  .  The acquisition  

47 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     complements Nu Mark s capabilities and enhances its competitive position by adding e-vapor experience, broadening product offerings and strengthening supply chain capabilities.   
  Green Smoke s financial position and results of operations have been consolidated with Altria Group, Inc. as of April 1, 2014. 
  Pro forma results, as well as net revenues and net earnings for Green Smoke subsequent to the acquisition, have not been presented because the acquisition of Green Smoke is not material to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations. 

The purchase price allocation has been completed, and there were no changes subsequent to the acquisition date. 
  Costs incurred to effect the acquisition, as well as integration costs, were recognized as expenses in the periods in which the costs were incurred.  For the years ended December 31,   2015   and   2014  , Altria Group, Inc. incurred   $7 million   and   $28 million  , respectively, of pre-tax integration and acquisition-related costs, consisting primarily of contract termination costs, transaction costs and inventory adjustments, which were included in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.  

Note 4  .  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net 
  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net, by segment were as follows:   

  Goodwill relates to Altria Group, Inc. s 2014 acquisition of Green Smoke, 2009 acquisition of UST and 2007 acquisition of Middleton. 
  Other intangible assets consisted of the following:  

Indefinite-lived intangible assets consist substantially of trademarks from Altria Group, Inc. s 2009 acquisition of UST (  $9.1 billion  ) and 2007 acquisition of Middleton (  $2.6 billion  ).  Definite-lived intangible assets, which consist primarily of customer relationships and certain cigarette trademarks, are amortized over periods up to   25   years.  Pre-tax amortization expense for definite-lived intangible assets during the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , was   $21 million  ,   $20 million   and   $20 million  , respectively.  Annual amortization expense for each of the next five years is estimated to be approximately   $20 million  , assuming no additional transactions occur that require the amortization of intangible assets. 
  During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. completed its quantitative annual impairment test of goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets, and   no   impairment charges resulted.  
  For the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , there have been   no   changes in goodwill and the gross carrying amount of other intangible assets except for the 2014 acquisition of Green Smoke.  In addition, there were   no   accumulated impairment losses related to goodwill and other intangible assets, net at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 

Note 5  .  Inventories  
  The cost of approximately   65%   and   66%   of inventories at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, was determined using the LIFO method.  The stated LIFO amounts of inventories were approximately   $0.7 billion   lower than the current cost of inventories at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 
    Note 6  .    Investment in SABMiller     
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. held approximately   27%   of the economic and voting interest of SABMiller.  Altria Group, Inc. accounts for its investment in SABMiller under the equity method of accounting. 
  Pre-tax earnings from Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller were   $757 million  ,   $1,006 million   and   $991 million   for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  

48 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Summary financial data of SABMiller is as follows:   

The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller is based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets and is classified in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.  The fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , was   $25.8 billion   and   $22.5 billion  , respectively, as compared with its carrying value of   $5.5 billion   and   $6.2 billion  , respectively.   
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. s earnings reinvested in the business on its consolidated balance sheet included approximately   $3.2 billion   of undistributed earnings from its equity investment in SABMiller. 
     AB InBev and SABMiller Business Combination:   On November 11, 2015, AB InBev announced its firm offer to effect a business combination with SABMiller in a cash and stock transaction valued at approximately   $107 billion  .  Under the terms of the transaction, SABMiller shareholders will receive   44   British pounds in cash for each SABMiller share, with a partial share alternative ( PSA ) available for approximately   41%   of the SABMiller shares.   
  Under the terms of the PSA, SABMiller shareholders may elect to receive for each SABMiller share held (i)   0.483969   restricted shares (the  Restricted Shares ) in a newly formed Belgian company ( NewCo ) that will own the combined SABMiller and AB InBev business plus (ii)   3.7788   British pounds ( GBP ) in cash.  On November 10, 2015, the Board of Directors of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Board of Directors ) authorized Altria Group, Inc. to provide an irrevocable undertaking to vote Altria Group, Inc. s shares of SABMiller in favor of the proposed transaction and to elect the PSA (the  Irrevocable Undertaking ).  Altria Group, Inc. delivered the Irrevocable Undertaking on November 11, 2015.   
  If the transaction is completed, NewCo will acquire SABMiller and, following the closing of that acquisition, AB InBev will merge into NewCo.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to exchange its approximate   27%   economic and voting interest in SABMiller for an interest that will be converted into Restricted Shares representing an approximate   10.5%   economic and voting interest in NewCo plus approximately   $2.5 billion   in pre-tax cash (subject to proration as further described below).   

The Restricted Shares of NewCo will:  
             
    be unlisted and not admitted to trading on any stock exchange;  
                
    be subject to a   five  -year lock-up from closing (subject to limited exceptions);  
                
    be convertible into ordinary shares of NewCo on a one-for-one basis after the end of this   five  -year lock-up period;  
                
    rank equally with ordinary shares of NewCo with regards to dividends and voting rights; and 
                
    have director nomination rights with respect to NewCo.  
     Altria Group, Inc. expects that its gain on the transaction will be deferred for United States corporate income tax purposes, except to the extent of cash consideration received.  Altria Group, Inc. and AB InBev have entered into a tax matters agreement providing for certain covenants, representations and warranties and indemnification obligations of AB InBev and NewCo in connection with the transaction and the provision of information necessary to assist Altria Group, Inc. in connection with its United States federal income tax reporting. 
  Based on the anticipated structure of the transaction, Altria Group, Inc. expects to account for its investment in NewCo under the equity method of accounting.  Altria Group, Inc. and AB InBev have entered into an information rights agreement pursuant to which, following completion of the transaction, NewCo will provide Altria Group, Inc. with certain financial information necessary to assist Altria Group, Inc. in connection with its financial reporting, financial controls and financial planning.   
  Upon closing of the transaction, Altria Group, Inc. estimates that it will record a one-time pre-tax accounting gain of approximately   $12 billion  , or   $8 billion   after-tax.  This estimate is based on the AB InBev share price, GBP to United States dollar ( USD ) exchange rate and book value of Altria Group, Inc. s investment in SABMiller at December 31, 2015.  The actual gain recorded at closing may vary significantly from this estimate based on changes to these factors and any proration of Restricted Shares as discussed further below. 
  If the transaction is completed, Altria Group, Inc. expects to receive Restricted Shares representing an economic and voting interest in NewCo of approximately   10.5%  ; however, the number of shares that Altria Group, Inc. receives and its corresponding percentage ownership of NewCo at closing are subject to proration because the PSA limits the maximum number of shares that may be issued under the offer to   326 million   NewCo Restricted Shares.  To the extent that elections for the PSA exceed this maximum number and cannot be satisfied in full, the equity portion of all PSA elections will be adjusted downwards on a pro rata basis.  It is possible that significant proration could (i) reduce Altria Group, Inc. s projected percentage ownership of NewCo; (ii) increase the amount of cash that Altria Group, Inc. receives; (iii) increase the amount of the pre-tax gain recorded by Altria Group, Inc.; (iv) impose additional tax liabilities on Altria Group, Inc.; and (v) impact Altria Group, Inc. s ability to account for its investment in NewCo under the equity method of accounting. 

49 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The transaction is subject to certain closing conditions, including shareholder approvals of both SABMiller and AB InBev, and receipt of the required regulatory approvals.   
  Derivative Financial Instrument:   On November 11, 2015, Altria Group, Inc. entered into a derivative financial instrument in the form of a put option (the  option ) to hedge Altria Group, Inc. s exposure to foreign currency exchange rate movements for the GBP, which would impact the USD cash consideration that Altria Group, Inc. expects to receive under the PSA.  Altria Group, Inc. has the ability to exercise or terminate the option up to its expiration date of May 11, 2017.  The notional amount of the option is   $2,467 million   (  1,625 million   GBP).  The option does not qualify for hedge accounting; therefore, changes in the fair value of the option will be recorded as a pre-tax gain or loss in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statement of earnings for the periods in which the changes occur.  For the year ended December 31, 2015, Altria Group, Inc. recorded a pre-tax gain of   $20 million   for the change in the fair value of the option, which was included in other income, net. 
  The fair value of the option is determined using a binomial option pricing model, which reflects the contractual terms of the option and other observable market-based inputs, and is classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  At December 31, 2015, the fair value of the option of   $152 million   was recorded in other current assets in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet.  
    Note 7  .  Finance Assets, net 
  In 2003, PMCC ceased making new investments and began focusing exclusively on managing its portfolio of finance assets in order to maximize its operating results and cash flows from its existing lease portfolio activities and asset sales.  Accordingly, PMCC s operating companies income will fluctuate over time as investments mature or are sold.   
       At   December 31, 2015  , finance assets, net, of   $1,239 million   were comprised of investments in finance leases of $  1,281 million  , reduced by the allowance for losses of   $42 million  .  At   December 31, 2014  , finance assets, net, of   $1,614 million   were comprised of investments in finance leases of   $1,656 million  , reduced by the allowance for losses of   $42 million  . 
  A summary of the net investments in finance leases, substantially all of which were leveraged leases, at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , before allowance for losses was as follows:   

  Rents receivable, net, represent unpaid rents, net of principal and interest payments on third-party nonrecourse debt.  PMCC s  

rights to rents receivable are subordinate to the third-party nonrecourse debtholders and the leased equipment is pledged as collateral to the debtholders.  The repayment of the nonrecourse debt is collateralized by lease payments receivable and the leased property, and is nonrecourse to the general assets of PMCC.  As required by U.S. GAAP, the third-party nonrecourse debt of   $1.2 billion   and   $2.1 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively, has been offset against the related rents receivable.  There were   no   leases with contingent rentals in   2015   and   2014  . 
   In   2015   and   2014  , PMCC s review of estimated residual values resulted in a decrease of   $65 million   and   $63 million  , respectively, to unguaranteed residual values.  These decreases in unguaranteed residual values resulted in a reduction to PMCC s net revenues of   $41 million   and   $26 million   in   2015   and   2014  , respectively.  There were no such adjustments in 2013. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , PMCC s investments in finance leases were principally comprised of the following investment categories: aircraft (  45%  ), electric power (  24%  ), railcar (  12%  ), real estate (  12%  ) and manufacturing (  7%  ).  There were   no   investments located outside the United States at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  .   
  Rents receivable in excess of debt service requirements on third-party nonrecourse debt at   December 31, 2015   were as follows: 

Included in net revenues for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   were leveraged lease revenues of   $46 million  ,   $80 million   and   $209 million  , respectively.  Income tax expense, excluding interest on tax underpayments, on leveraged lease revenues for the years     ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $17 million  ,   $30 million   and   $80 million  , respectively. 
  PMCC maintains an allowance for losses that provides for estimated credit losses on its investments in finance leases.  PMCC s portfolio consists substantially of leveraged leases to a diverse base of lessees participating in a variety of industries.  Losses on such leases are recorded when probable and estimable.  PMCC regularly performs a systematic assessment of each individual lease in its portfolio to determine potential credit or collection issues that might indicate impairment.  Impairment takes into consideration both the probability of default and the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur.  PMCC considers both quantitative and qualitative factors of each investment when performing its assessment of the allowance for losses. 
  Quantitative factors that indicate potential default are tied most directly to public debt ratings.  PMCC monitors publicly available information on its obligors, including financial  

50 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     statements and credit rating agency reports.  Qualitative factors that indicate the likelihood of recovery if default were to occur include underlying collateral value, other forms of credit support, and legal/structural considerations impacting each lease.  Using available information, PMCC calculates potential losses for each lease in its portfolio based on its default and recovery rating assumptions for each lease.  The aggregate of these potential losses forms a range of potential losses which is used as a guideline to determine the adequacy of PMCC s allowance for losses. 
  PMCC assesses the adequacy of its allowance for losses relative to the credit risk of its leasing portfolio on an ongoing basis.  During   2014   and   2013  , PMCC determined that its allowance for losses exceeded the amount required based on management s assessment of the credit quality and size of PMCC s leasing portfolio.  As a result, PMCC reduced its allowance for losses by   $10 million   and   $47 million   for the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  These decreases to the allowance for losses were recorded as a reduction to marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.  PMCC believes that, as of   December 31, 2015  , the allowance for losses of   $42 million   was adequate.  PMCC continues to monitor economic and credit conditions, and the individual situations of its lessees and their respective industries, and may increase or decrease its allowance for losses if such conditions change in the future.   
  The activity in the allowance for losses on finance assets for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was as follows: 

All   PMCC lessees were current on their lease payment obligations as of   December 31, 2015  . 
  The credit quality of PMCC s investments in finance leases as assigned by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( Standard   Poor s ) and Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   was as follows: 

Note 8  .  Short-Term Borrowings and Borrowing Arrangements 
  At   December 31, 2015   and   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had   no   short-term borrowings.  The credit line available to Altria Group, Inc. at   December 31, 2015   under the Credit Agreement (as defined below) was   $3.0 billion  . 
  During the third quarter of 2015, Altria Group, Inc. entered into an extension agreement (the  Extension Agreement ) to amend its   $3.0 billion   senior unsecured   5  -year revolving credit agreement, dated as of August 19, 2013 (the  Credit Agreement ).  The Extension Agreement extends the expiration date of the Credit Agreement from   August 19, 2019   to   August 19, 2020   pursuant to the terms of the Credit Agreement.  All other terms and conditions of the Credit Agreement remain in full force and effect.  The Credit Agreement was previously amended in 2014 to extend the expiration date from   August 19, 2018   to   August 19, 2019  . 
  The Credit Agreement provides for borrowings up to an aggregate principal amount of   $3.0 billion  .  Pricing for interest and fees under the Credit Agreement may be modified in the event of a change in the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt.  Interest rates on borrowings under the Credit Agreement are expected to be based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ( LIBOR ) plus a percentage based on the higher of the ratings of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt from Moody s and Standard   Poor s.  The applicable percentage based on Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt ratings at   December 31, 2015   for borrowings under the Credit Agreement was   1.25%  .  The Credit Agreement does not include any other rating triggers, nor does it contain any provisions that could require the posting of collateral.   
  The Credit Agreement is used for general corporate purposes and to support Altria Group, Inc. s commercial paper issuances.  The Credit Agreement requires that Altria Group, Inc. maintain (i) a ratio of debt to consolidated earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization ( EBITDA ) of not more than   3.0   to 1.0 and (ii) a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than   4.0   to 1.0, each calculated as of the end of the applicable quarter on a rolling four quarters basis.  At   December 31, 2015  , the ratios of debt to consolidated EBITDA and consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense, calculated in accordance with the Credit Agreement, were   1.4   to 1.0 and   11.7   to 1.0, respectively.  Altria Group, Inc. expects to continue to meet its covenants associated with the Credit Agreement.  The terms  consolidated EBITDA,   debt  and  consolidated interest expense,  as defined in the Credit Agreement, include certain adjustments.   
  Any commercial paper issued by Altria Group, Inc. and borrowings under the Credit Agreement are guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information. 

51 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Note 9  .  Long-Term Debt 
  At   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , Altria Group, Inc. s long-term debt consisted of the following: 

(1)     Weighted-average coupon interest rate of   5.5%   and   5.7%   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows: 

Altria Group, Inc. s estimate of the fair value of its debt is based on observable market information derived from a third party pricing source and is classified in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.  The aggregate fair value of Altria Group, Inc. s total long-term debt at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , was   $14.5 billion   and   $17.0 billion  , respectively, as compared with its carrying value of   $12.9 billion   and   $14.7 billion  , respectively.  
     Altria Group, Inc. Senior Notes:    The notes of Altria Group, Inc. are senior unsecured obligations and rank equally in right of payment with all of Altria Group, Inc. s existing and future senior unsecured indebtedness.  Upon the occurrence of both (i) a change of control of Altria Group, Inc. and (ii) the notes ceasing to be rated investment grade by each of Moody s, Standard   Poor s and Fitch Ratings Ltd. within a specified time period, Altria Group, Inc. will be required to make an offer to purchase the notes at a price equal to   101%   of the aggregate principal amount of such notes, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes. 
  With respect to   $3.4 billion   aggregate principal amount of Altria Group, Inc. s senior unsecured long-term notes issued in 2009 and 2008, the interest rate payable on each series of notes is subject to adjustment from time to time if the rating assigned to the notes of such series by Moody s or Standard   Poor s is downgraded (or subsequently upgraded) as and to the extent set forth in the terms of the notes. 

During 2015, Altria Group, Inc. repaid in full at maturity senior unsecured notes in the aggregate principal amount of   $1.0 billion  . 
  The obligations of Altria Group, Inc. under the notes are guaranteed by PM USA as further discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  . 
     Debt Tender Offers and Redemption:    During 2015 and 2013, Altria Group, Inc. completed debt tender offers to purchase for cash certain of its senior unsecured notes in aggregate principal amounts of   $0.8 billion   and   $2.1 billion  , respectively. 
  Details of these debt tender offers were as follows:  

During 2014, UST redeemed in full its   $300 million   (aggregate principal amount)   5.75%   senior notes due 2018.   
  As a result of the Altria Group, Inc. debt tender offers and the UST debt redemption, pre-tax losses on early extinguishment of debt were recorded as follows:   

52 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Note 10  .  Capital Stock 
  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. had   12 billion   shares of authorized common stock; issued, repurchased and outstanding shares of common stock were as follows: 

At   December 31, 2015  ,   42,209,751   shares of common stock were reserved for stock-based awards under Altria Group, Inc. s stock plans, and   10 million   shares of serial preferred stock, $  1.00   par value, were authorized.    No   shares of serial preferred stock have been issued. 
     Dividends:      During the third quarter of   2015  , the Board of Directors approved an   8.7%   increase in the quarterly dividend rate to   $0.565   per common share versus the previous rate of   $0.52   per common share.  The current annualized dividend rate is   $2.26   per Altria Group, Inc. common share.  Future dividend payments remain subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
     Share Repurchases:      In October 2011, the Board of Directors authorized a   $1.0 billion   share repurchase program and expanded it to   $1.5 billion   in October 2012 (as expanded, the  October 2011 share repurchase program ).  During the first quarter of 2013, Altria Group, Inc. completed the October 2011 share repurchase program, under which Altria Group, Inc.  
  repurchased a total of   48.3 million   shares of its common stock at an average price of   $31.06   per share.  
  In April 2013, the Board of Directors authorized a   $300 million   share repurchase program and expanded it to   $1.0 billion   in   August 2013   (as expanded, the  April 2013 share repurchase program ).  During the third quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. completed the April 2013 share repurchase program, under which Altria Group, Inc. repurchased a total of   27.1 million   shares of its common stock at an average price of   $36.97   per share. 

In July 2014, the Board of Directors authorized a   $1.0 billion   share repurchase program (the  July 2014 share repurchase program ).  During the third quarter of 2015, Altria Group, Inc. completed the July 2014 share repurchase program, under which Altria Group, Inc. repurchased a total of   20.4 million   shares of its common stock at an average price of   $48.90   per share.   
  In July 2015, the Board of Directors authorized a   $1.0 billion   share repurchase program (the  July 2015 share repurchase program ).  During 2015, Altria Group, Inc. repurchased   0.6 million   shares of its common stock (at an aggregate cost of approximately   $35 million  , and at an average price of   $57.66   per share) under the July 2015 share repurchase program.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. had approximately   $965 million   remaining in the July 2015 share repurchase program.  The timing of share repurchases under this program depends upon marketplace conditions and other factors, and the program remains subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors. 
  For the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. s total share repurchase activity was as follows: 

Note 11  .  Stock Plans 
  In 2015, the Board of Directors adopted, and shareholders approved, the Altria Group, Inc. 2015 Performance Incentive Plan (the  2015 Plan ).  The 2015 Plan succeeded the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan, under which no new awards were permitted after April 30, 2015.  Under the 2015 Plan, Altria Group, Inc. may grant stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted and deferred stock units, and other stock-based awards, as well as cash-based annual and long-term incentive awards to employees of Altria Group, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  Up to   40 million   shares of common stock may be issued under the 2015 Plan.   
  In addition, in 2015, the Board of Directors adopted, and shareholders approved, the 2015 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Directors Plan ).  The Directors Plan succeeded the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective January 29, 2014, under which no new awards were permitted after May 20, 2015.  Under the Directors Plan, Altria Group, Inc. may grant up to   one million   shares of common stock to members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of Altria Group, Inc. 
  Shares available to be granted under the 2015 Plan and the Directors Plan at   December 31, 2015  , were   39,994,482   and   993,284  , respectively. 

53 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

        Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units:    Altria Group, Inc. may grant shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units to employees of Altria Group, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates.  During the vesting period, these shares include nonforfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents and may not be sold, assigned, pledged or otherwise encumbered.  Such shares are subject to forfeiture if certain employment conditions are not met.      Shares of     restricted stock and restricted stock units generally vest three years after the grant date. 
  The fair value of the shares of restricted stock and restricted stock units at the date of grant is amortized to expense ratably over the restriction period, which is generally   three years  .  Altria Group, Inc. recorded pre-tax compensation expense related to restricted stock and restricted stock units granted to employees for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   of   $51 million  ,   $46 million   and   $49 million  , respectively.  The deferred tax benefit recorded related to this compensation expense was   $20 million  ,   $18 million   and   $19 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  The unamortized compensation expense related to Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and restricted stock units was   $68 million   at   December 31, 2015   and is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of approximately   two years  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. s restricted stock and restricted stock units activity was as follows for the year ended   December 31, 2015  : 

The weighted-average grant date fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and restricted stock units granted during the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $65 million  ,   $53 million   and   $49 million  , respectively, or   $54.54  ,   $36.75   and   $33.76   per restricted share or restricted stock unit, respectively.  The total fair value of Altria Group, Inc. restricted stock and restricted stock units that vested during the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was   $85 million  ,   $86 million   and   $89 million  , respectively. 

Note 12  .  Earnings per Share 
  Basic and diluted earnings per share ( EPS ) were calculated using the following: 

54 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Note 13  .  Other Comprehensive Earnings/Losses 
  The following tables set forth the changes in each component of accumulated other comprehensive losses, net of deferred income taxes, attributable to Altria Group, Inc.:      

(1)     For the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. s proportionate share of SABMiller s other comprehensive losses consisted primarily of currency translation adjustments. 

55 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   The following table sets forth pre-tax amounts by component, reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive losses to net earnings:   

(1)     Amounts are included in net defined benefit plan costs.  For further details, see   Note 16  .   Benefit Plans. 
   (2)     Amounts are included in earnings from equity investment in SABMiller.  For further information on Altria Group, Inc. s equity investment in SABMiller, see   Note 6  .   Investment in SABMiller. 
    Note 14  .  Income Taxes 
    Earnings before income taxes and provision for income taxes consisted of the following for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  :    

Altria Group, Inc. s U.S. subsidiaries join in the filing of a U.S. federal consolidated income tax return.  The U.S. federal statute of limitations remains open for the year 2007 and forward, with years 2010 to 2013 currently under examination by the IRS as part of an audit conducted in the ordinary course of business.  With the exception of corresponding federal audit adjustments, state statutes of limitations generally remain open for the year 2011 and forward.  Certain of Altria Group, Inc. s state tax returns are currently under examination by various states as part of routine audits conducted in the ordinary course of business. 

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   was as follows:    

Unrecognized tax benefits and Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated liability for tax contingencies at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , were as follows:   

56 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at   December 31, 2015   was   $109 million  , along with   $49 million   affecting deferred taxes.  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate at   December 31, 2014   was   $207 million  , along with   $51 million   affecting deferred taxes.  However, the impact on net earnings at   December 31, 2014   would be   $177 million  , as a result of the tax-related net receivable from Altria Group, Inc. s former subsidiary, Philip Morris International Inc. ( PMI ), of   $30 million   pursuant to the tax sharing agreements discussed below.  
  Under tax sharing agreements entered into in connection with the 2007 and 2008 spin-offs between Altria Group, Inc. and its former subsidiaries Kraft Foods Inc. (now known as Mondel z International, Inc. ( Mondel z )) and PMI, respectively, Mondel z and PMI are responsible for their respective pre-spin-off tax obligations.  Altria Group, Inc., however, remains severally liable for Mondel z s and PMI s pre-spin-off federal tax obligations pursuant to regulations governing federal consolidated income tax returns, and continued to include the pre-spin-off federal income tax reserves of Mondel z and PMI in its liability for uncertain tax positions.  As of December 31, 2015, there are   no   remaining pre-spin-off tax reserves for Mondel z and PMI.  
  During   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. recorded net tax benefits of   $41 million  ,   $2 million   and   $22 million  , respectively, for Mondel z and PMI tax matters, primarily relating to the IRS audit of Altria Group, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries  2007-2009 tax years ( IRS 2007-2009 Audit ).  These net tax benefits were offset by changes to Mondel z and PMI tax-related receivables/payables, which were recorded as decreases to operating income on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.  Due to the respective offsets, the Mondel z and PMI tax matters had no impact on Altria Group, Inc. s net earnings for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. recognizes accrued interest and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions as part of the tax provision.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. had   $14 million   of accrued interest and penalties.  At   December 31, 2014  , Altria Group, Inc. had   $57 million   of accrued interest and penalties, of which approximately   $7 million   related to PMI, for which PMI is responsible under its tax sharing agreement.  The corresponding receivable from PMI was included in other assets on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheet at   December 31, 2014  . 
  For the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , Altria Group, Inc. recognized in its consolidated statements of earnings   $(36) million  ,   $14 million   and   $5 million  , respectively, of gross interest (income) expense associated with uncertain tax positions. 
  Altria Group, Inc. is subject to income taxation in many jurisdictions.  Uncertain tax positions reflect the difference between tax positions taken or expected to be taken on income tax returns and the amounts recognized in the financial statements.  Resolution of the related tax positions with the relevant tax authorities may take many years to complete, and such timing is  

not entirely within the control of Altria Group, Inc.  It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months certain examinations will be resolved, which could result in a decrease in unrecognized tax benefits of approximately   $6 million  . 
  The effective income tax rate on pre-tax earnings differed from the U.S. federal statutory rate for the following reasons for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  : 

The tax provision in 2015 included net tax benefits of (i)   $59 million   from the reversal of tax reserves and associated interest due primarily to the closure in the third quarter of 2015 of the IRS 2007-2009 Audit; and (ii)   $41 million   for Mondel z and PMI tax matters discussed above, partially offset by the reversal of foreign tax credits primarily associated with SABMiller dividends that were recorded during the third quarter of 2015 (  $41 million  ) and fourth quarter of 2015 (  $24 million  ).  The tax provision in 2015 also included decreased recognition of foreign tax credits associated with SABMiller dividends.   
  The tax provision in   2014   included net tax benefits of (i)   $14 million   from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required that was recorded during the third quarter of   2014   (  $19 million  ), partially offset by additional tax provisions recorded during the  fourth quarter of   2014   (  $5 million  ); and (ii)   $2 million   for Mondel z tax matters discussed above.  
  The tax provision in   2013   included net tax benefits of (i)   $39 million   from the reversal of tax accruals no longer required that was recorded during the third quarter of 2013 (  $25 million  ) and fourth quarter of 2013 (  $14 million  ); (ii)   $25 million   related to the recognition of previously unrecognized foreign tax credits primarily associated with SABMiller dividends that were recorded during the fourth quarter of 2013; and (iii)   $22 million   for Mondel z tax matters discussed above.  The tax provision in 2013 also included a reduction in certain consolidated tax benefits resulting from the 2013 debt tender offer that is discussed further in   Note 9  .   Long-Term Debt  .  

57 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  : 

At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. had estimated gross state tax net operating losses of   $610 million   that, if unused, will expire in   2016   through   2035  , state tax credit carryforwards of   $57 million   that, if unused, will expire in   2016   through   2017  , and foreign tax credit carryforwards of   $301 million   that, if unused, will expire in   2020   through   2025  .  Realization of these benefits is dependent upon various factors such as generating sufficient taxable income in the applicable states and receiving sufficient amounts of lower-taxed foreign dividends from SABMiller.  A valuation allowance of   $260 million   has been established for those benefits that more-likely-than-not will not be realized.  
    Note 15  .  Segment Reporting 
  The products of Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries include smokeable tobacco products comprised of cigarettes manufactured and sold by PM USA and machine-made large cigars and pipe tobacco manufactured and sold by Middleton; smokeless tobacco products, substantially all of which are manufactured and sold by USSTC; and wine produced and/or distributed by Ste. Michelle.  The products and services of these subsidiaries constitute Altria Group, Inc. s reportable segments of smokeable products, smokeless products and wine.  The financial services and the innovative tobacco products businesses are included in all other. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker reviews operating companies income to evaluate the performance of, and allocate resources to, the segments.  Operating companies income for the segments is defined as operating income before amortization of intangibles and general corporate expenses.  Interest and other debt expense, net, and provision for income taxes are centrally managed at the corporate level and,  

accordingly, such items are not presented by segment since they are excluded from the measure of segment profitability reviewed by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Information about total assets by segment is not disclosed because such information is not reported to or used by Altria Group, Inc. s chief operating decision maker.  Segment goodwill and other intangible assets, net, are disclosed in   Note 4  .   Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets, net.    The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in   Note 2  .   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. 
  Segment data were as follows: 

The smokeable products segment included net revenues of   $22,193 million  ,   $21,363 million   and   $21,308 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, related to cigarettes and net revenues of   $599 million  ,   $576 million   and   $560 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively, related to cigars.   
  PM USA, USSTC and Middleton s largest customer, McLane Company, Inc., accounted for approximately   26%   of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2015 and   27%   for each of the years ended December 31,   2014   and   2013  .  In addition, Core-Mark Holding Company, Inc. accounted for approximately   10%   of Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated net revenues for the year ended December 31,  

58 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     2015.  Substantially all of these net revenues were reported in the smokeable products and smokeless products segments.  Sales to   three   distributors accounted for approximately   66%  ,   67%   and   66%   of net revenues for the wine segment for the years ended December 31, 2015,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Details of Altria Group, Inc. s depreciation expense and capital expenditures were as follows:   

  The comparability of operating companies income for the reportable segments was affected by the following: 
     Non-Participating Manufacturer ( NPM ) Adjustment Items:    For the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and 2013, pre-tax income for NPM adjustment items was recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows: 

These adjustments resulted from the settlement of, and determinations made in connection with, disputes with certain states and territories related to the NPM adjustment provision under the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement (such settlements and determinations are referred to collectively as  NPM Adjustment Items  and are more fully described in   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - NPM Adjustment Disputes   in   Note 18  .   Contingencies  )  .    The amounts shown in the table above for the smokeable products segment were recorded by PM USA as reductions to cost of sales, which increased operating companies income in the smokeable products segment. 
     Tobacco and Health Litigation Items:    For the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , pre-tax charges related to certain tobacco and health litigation items were recorded in Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings as follows: 

During 2015, PM USA recorded pre-tax charges in marketing, administration and research costs related to tobacco and health judgments in   seven   state   Engle   progeny lawsuits and   Schwarz   of   $59 million   and   $25 million  , respectively, as well as   $14 million   and   $9 million  , respectively, in interest costs related to these cases.  Additionally in 2015, PM USA and certain other cigarette manufacturers reached an agreement to resolve approximately   415   pending federal   Engle   progeny cases.  As a result of the agreement, PM USA recorded a pre-tax provision of approximately   $43 million   in marketing, administration and research costs.  For further discussion, see   Smoking and Health Litigation   in   Note 18  .   Contingencies  . 
  During 2014, Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA recorded an aggregate pre-tax charge of   $31 million   in marketing, administration and research costs for the estimated costs of implementing the corrective communications remedy in connection with the federal government s lawsuit against Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA.  For further discussion, see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation   -   Federal Government s Lawsuit   in   Note 18  .   Contingencies  . 
     Asset Impairment and Exit Costs:    During 2014, PM USA sold its Cabarrus, North Carolina manufacturing facility for approximately   $66 million   in connection with the previously completed manufacturing optimization program associated with PM USA s closure of the manufacturing facility in 2009.  As a result, during 2014, PM USA recorded a pre-tax gain of   $10 million  . 
    Note 16  .  Benefit Plans 
  Subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans covering the majority of all employees of Altria Group, Inc.  However, employees hired on or after a date specific to their employee group are not eligible to participate in these noncontributory defined benefit pension plans but are instead eligible to participate in a defined contribution plan with enhanced benefits.  This transition for new hires occurred from October 1, 2006 to January 1, 2008.  In addition, effective January 1, 2010, certain employees of UST and Middleton who were participants in noncontributory defined benefit pension plans ceased to earn additional benefit service under those plans and became eligible to participate in a defined contribution plan with enhanced benefits.  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries also provide postretirement health care and other benefits to the majority of retired employees. 
  The plan assets and benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans and the benefit obligations of Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement plans are measured at December 31 of each year.  Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement plans are not funded.   

59 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The discount rates for Altria Group, Inc. s plans were based on a yield curve developed from a model portfolio of high-quality corporate bonds with durations that match the expected future cash flows of the pension and postretirement benefit obligations. 
  At December 31, 2015, Altria Group, Inc. changed the approach used to estimate the service and interest cost components of net periodic benefit costs for Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement plans.  In 2015 and prior years, Altria Group, Inc. estimated the service and interest cost components using a single weighted-average discount rate derived from the yield curve used to measure the pension and postretirement plans  

benefit obligations.  Beginning in 2016, Altria Group, Inc. will use a spot rate approach in the estimation of these components of net periodic benefit costs by applying the specific spot rates along the yield curve to the relevant projected cash flows, as Altria Group, Inc. believes that this approach provides a more precise estimate of service and interest costs.  Altria Group, Inc. is accounting for this change prospectively as a change in accounting estimate.  This change will not affect the measurement of Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement benefit obligations as the change in the service and interest costs will be offset by a corresponding change in actuarial gains/losses.         

Obligations and Funded Status:    The benefit obligations, plan assets and funded status of Altria Group, Inc. s pension and postretirement plans at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   were as follows: 

The table above presents the projected benefit obligation for Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans.  The accumulated benefit obligation, which represents benefits earned to date, for the pension plans was   $7.7 billion   and   $7.9 billion   at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  At December 31, 2015 and   2014  , the accumulated benefit obligations were in excess of plan assets for all pension plans. 
  The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( PPACA ), as amended by the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, was signed into law in March 2010.  The PPACA mandates health care reforms with staggered effective dates from 2010 to 2020, including the imposition of an excise tax on high cost health care plans effective in 2020.  The additional accumulated postretirement liability resulting from the PPACA,  

which is not material to Altria Group, Inc., has been included in Altria Group, Inc. s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  .  Given the complexity of the PPACA and the extended time period during which implementation is expected to occur, future adjustments to Altria Group, Inc. s accumulated postretirement benefit obligation may be necessary. 
  The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s pension benefit obligations at December 31: 

60 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s postretirement benefit obligations at December 31:   

The amounts included in termination and settlement in the table above were comprised of the following changes: 

At December 31, 2014, Altria Group, Inc. updated its mortality assumptions to reflect longer life expectancy for its pension plan and postretirement plan participants,  

resulting in an increase of approximately   $60 million   and   $10 million   to its 2015 pre-tax pension and postretirement net periodic benefit cost, respectively. 
  The estimated net loss and prior service cost (credit) that are expected to be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive losses into net periodic benefit cost during 2016 is as follows:   

The following assumptions were used to determine Altria Group, Inc. s net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31:   

    Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the postretirement health care plans.  A one-percentage-point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have had the following effects as of   December 31, 2015  :                           
    One-Percentage-Point Increase 

One-Percentage-Point Decrease 
      
      Effect on total of postretirement service and interest cost 
    6.8 
    % 
      
    (5.8 
    )% 
      Effect on postretirement benefit obligation 
    7.5 
    % 
      
    (6.1 
    )% 

Defined Contribution Plans:    Altria Group, Inc. sponsors deferred profit-sharing plans covering certain salaried, non-union and union employees.  Contributions and costs are determined generally as a percentage of earnings, as defined by the plans.  Amounts charged to expense for these defined contribution plans totaled   $85 million  ,   $82 million   and   $80 million   in   2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
     Pension Plan Assets:    Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategy is based on an expectation that equity securities will outperform debt securities over the long term.  Altria Group, Inc. believes that it implements the investment strategy in a prudent and risk-controlled manner, consistent with  

61 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     the fiduciary requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, by investing retirement plan assets in a well-diversified mix of equities, fixed income and other securities that reflects the impact of the demographic mix of plan participants on the benefit obligation using a target asset allocation between equity securities and fixed income investments of   55%  /  45%  .  The composition of Altria Group, Inc. s plan assets at   December 31, 2015   was broadly characterized as an allocation between equity securities (  56%  ), corporate bonds (  32%  ), U.S. Treasury and foreign government securities (  8%  ) and all other types of investments (  4%  ).  Virtually all pension assets can be used to make monthly benefit payments. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment objective is accomplished by investing in U.S. and international equity index strategies that are intended to mirror indices such as the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index, Research Affiliates Fundamental Index ( RAFI ) Low Volatility U.S. Index, and Morgan Stanley Capital International ( MSCI ) Europe, Australasia, and the Far East ( EAFE ) Index.  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans also invest in actively managed international equity securities of large, mid and small cap  

companies located in developed and emerging markets, as well as long duration fixed income securities that primarily include corporate bonds of companies from diversified industries.  The allocation to below investment grade securities represented   18%   of the fixed income holdings or   8%   of total plan assets at   December 31, 2015  .  The allocation to emerging markets represented   4%   of the equity holdings or   2%   of total plan assets at   December 31, 2015  .  The allocation to real estate and private equity investments was immaterial at   December 31, 2015  . 
  Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans risk management practices include ongoing monitoring of asset allocation, investment performance and investment managers  compliance with their investment guidelines, periodic rebalancing between equity and debt asset classes and annual actuarial re-measurement of plan liabilities. 
  Altria Group, Inc. s expected rate of return on pension plan assets is determined by the plan assets  historical long-term investment performance, current asset allocation and estimates of future long-term returns by asset class.  The forward-looking estimates are consistent with the overall long-term averages exhibited by returns on equity and fixed income securities. 

The fair values of Altria Group, Inc. s pension plan assets by asset category at   December 31, 2015   and   2014   were as follows: 

Level 3 holdings and transactions were immaterial to total plan assets at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  . 
    For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the three         levels of inputs used to measure fair value, see   Note 2  .   Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  . 
  Following is a description of the valuation methodologies          used for investments measured at fair value. 

Common/Collective Trusts  : Common/collective trusts consist of funds that are intended to mirror indices such as Standard   Poor s 500 Index, Russell Small Cap Completeness Index and MSCI EAFE Index.  They are valued on the basis of the relative interest of each participating investor in the fair value of the underlying assets of each of the respective common/collective trusts.   

62 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     The underlying assets are valued based on the net asset value ( NAV ), which is provided by the investment account manager as a practical expedient to estimate fair value. 
             
    U.S. and Foreign Government Securities  : U.S. and foreign government securities consist of investments in Treasury Nominal Bonds and Inflation Protected Securities and municipal securities.  Government securities are valued at a price that is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information, such as broker quotes.  Matrix pricing, yield curves and indices are used when broker quotes are not available. 
                
    Corporate Debt Instruments  : Corporate debt instruments are valued at a price that is based on a compilation of primarily observable market information, such as broker quotes.  Matrix pricing, yield curves and indices are used when broker quotes are not available. 
                
    Common Stock  : Common stocks are valued based on the price of the security as listed on an open active exchange on last trade date. 
                
    Registered Investment Companies  : Investments in mutual funds sponsored by a registered investment company are  

valued based on exchange listed prices and are classified in Level 1.  Registered investment company funds that are designed specifically to meet Altria Group, Inc. s pension plans investment strategies, but are not traded on an active market, are valued based on the NAV of the underlying securities and are classified in Level 2.  The NAV is provided by the investment account manager as a practical expedient to estimate fair value. 
     Cash Flows:    Altria Group, Inc. makes contributions to the pension plans to the extent that the contributions are tax deductible and pays benefits that relate to plans for salaried employees that cannot be funded under IRS regulations.  Currently, Altria Group, Inc. anticipates making employer contributions to its pension plans of approximately   $30 million   to   $75 million   in 2016 based on current tax law.  However, this estimate is subject to change as a result of changes in tax and other benefit laws, as well as asset performance significantly above or below the assumed long-term rate of return on pension assets, or changes in interest rates. 

Estimated future benefit payments at   December 31, 2015   were as follows:   

  Comprehensive Earnings/Losses 
  The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at   December 31, 2015   consisted of the following:   

  The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive losses at   December 31, 2014   consisted of the following: 

63 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended   December 31, 2015   were as follows:   

  The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended   December 31, 2014   were as follows:   

  The movements in other comprehensive earnings/losses during the year ended   December 31, 2013   were as follows:   

64 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Note 17  .  Additional Information 

Minimum rental commitments and sublease income under non-cancelable operating leases in effect at   December 31, 2015   were as follows: 

The activity in the allowance for discounts and allowance for returned goods for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 was as follows:   

   (1)    Represents the recording of discounts and returns for which allowances were created. 
    Note 18  . Contingencies 
    Legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters are pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries, including PM USA and UST and its subsidiaries, as well as their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors or distributors. 
  Litigation is subject to uncertainty and it is possible that there could be adverse developments in pending or future cases.  An unfavorable outcome or settlement of pending tobacco-related or other litigation could encourage the commencement of additional litigation.  Damages claimed in some tobacco-related and other litigation are or can be significant and, in certain cases, range in the billions of dollars.  The variability in pleadings in multiple jurisdictions, together with the actual experience of management  

in litigating claims, demonstrate that the monetary relief that may be specified in a lawsuit bears little relevance to the ultimate outcome.  In certain cases, plaintiffs claim that defendants  liability is joint and several.  In such cases, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may face the risk that one or more co-defendants decline or otherwise fail to participate in the bonding required for an appeal or to pay their proportionate or jury-allocated share of a judgment.  As a result, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries under certain circumstances may have to pay more than their proportionate share of any bonding- or judgment-related amounts.  Furthermore, in those cases where plaintiffs are successful, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries may also be required to pay interest and attorneys  fees. 
  Although PM USA has historically been able to obtain required bonds or relief from bonding requirements in order to prevent plaintiffs from seeking to collect judgments while adverse verdicts have been appealed, there remains a risk that such relief  

65 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     may not be obtainable in all cases.  This risk has been substantially reduced given that   47   states and Puerto Rico limit the dollar amount of bonds or require no bond at all.  As discussed below, however, tobacco litigation plaintiffs have challenged the constitutionality of Florida s bond cap statute in several cases and plaintiffs may challenge state bond cap statutes in other jurisdictions as well.  Such challenges may include the applicability of state bond caps in federal court.   Although Altria Group, Inc. cannot predict the outcome of such challenges, it is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome of one or more such challenges. 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries record provisions in the consolidated financial statements for pending litigation when they determine that an unfavorable outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.  At the present time, while it is reasonably possible that an unfavorable outcome in a case may occur, except to the extent discussed elsewhere in this   Note 18  .   Contingencies  : (i) management has concluded that it is not probable that a loss has been incurred in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; (ii) management is unable to estimate the possible loss or range of loss that could result from an unfavorable outcome in any of the pending tobacco-related cases; and (iii) accordingly, management has not provided any amounts in the consolidated financial statements for unfavorable outcomes, if any.  Litigation defense costs are expensed as incurred.  
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries have achieved substantial success in managing litigation.  Nevertheless, litigation is subject to uncertainty and significant challenges remain.  It is possible that the consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position of Altria Group, Inc., or one or more of its subsidiaries, could be materially affected in a particular fiscal quarter or fiscal year by an unfavorable outcome or settlement of certain pending litigation.  Altria Group, Inc. and each of its subsidiaries named as a defendant believe, and each has been so advised by counsel handling the respective cases, that it has valid defenses to the litigation pending against it, as well as valid bases for appeal of adverse verdicts.  Each of the companies has defended, and will continue to defend, vigorously against litigation challenges.  However, Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries may enter into settlement discussions in particular cases if they believe it is in the best interests of Altria Group, Inc. to do so. 
  Overview of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA Tobacco-Related Litigation  
     Types and Number of Cases:    Claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs; (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual  

plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding; (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits; (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law or statutory fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of warranty or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act ( RICO  and (v) other tobacco-related litigation described below.  Plaintiffs  theories of recovery and the defenses raised in pending smoking and health, health care cost recovery and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases are discussed below.   
  The table below lists the number of certain tobacco-related cases pending in the United States against PM USA and, in some instances, Altria Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013:    

   (1)      Does not include   2,499   cases brought by flight attendants seeking compensatory damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by exposure to environmental tobacco smoke ( ETS ).  The flight attendants allege that they are members of an ETS smoking and health class action in Florida, which was settled in 1997 (  Broin  ).  The terms of the court-approved settlement in that case allowed class members to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibited them from seeking punitive damages.  Also, does not include individual smoking and health cases brought by or on behalf of plaintiffs in Florida state and federal courts following the decertification of the   Engle   case (discussed below in   Smoking and Health Litigation - Engle Class Action  ).   
   (2)    Includes as one case the   600   civil actions (of which   344   were actions against PM USA) that were to be tried in a single proceeding in West Virginia (  In re: Tobacco Litigation  ).  The West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals has ruled that the United States Constitution did not preclude a trial in   two   phases in this case.  Issues related to defendants  conduct and whether punitive damages are permissible were tried in the first phase.  Trial in the first phase of this case began in April 2013.  In May 2013, the jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants on the claims for design defect, negligence, failure to warn, breach of warranty, and concealment and declined to find that the defendants  conduct warranted punitive damages.  Plaintiffs prevailed on their claim that ventilated filter cigarettes should have included use instructions for the period 1964 - 1969.  The second phase will consist of trials to determine liability and compensatory damages.  In November 2014, the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals affirmed the final judgment.  In July 2015, the trial court entered an order that will result in the entry of final judgment in favor of defendants and against all but   30   plaintiffs who potentially have a claim against one or more defendants that may be pursued in a second phase of trial.  The court intends to try the claims of these   30   plaintiffs in   six   consolidated trials, each with a group of   five   plaintiffs.  The first trial is currently scheduled to begin May 1, 2017.  Dates for the   five   remaining consolidated trials have not been scheduled. 
   (3)      See   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   below. 
     International Tobacco-Related Cases:    As of January 26, 2016, PM USA is a named defendant in   ten   health care cost recovery actions in Canada,   eight   of which also name Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant. PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are  

66 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     also named defendants in   seven   smoking and health class actions filed in various Canadian provinces.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products.  
     Tobacco-Related Cases Set for Trial:    As of January 26, 2016,   five     Engle   progeny cases,   no   individual smoking and health case and   one    Lights/Ultra Lights  class action against PM USA are set for trial through March 31, 2016.    One   medical monitoring class action against PM USA is currently in trial.  Cases against other companies in the tobacco industry are also scheduled for trial during this period.  Trial dates are subject to change.  
     Trial Results:    Since January 1999, excluding the   Engle   progeny cases (separately discussed below), verdicts have been returned in   57   smoking and health,  Lights/Ultra Lights  and health care cost recovery cases in which PM USA was a defendant. Verdicts in favor of PM USA and other defendants were returned in   38   of the   57   cases.  These   38   cases were tried in Alaska (  1  ), California (  7  ), Florida (  10  ), Louisiana (  1  ), Massachusetts (  1  ), Mississippi (  1  ), Missouri (  3  ), New Hampshire (  1  ), New Jersey (  1  ), New York (  5  ), Ohio (  2  ), Pennsylvania (  1  ), Rhode Island (  1  ), Tennessee (  2  ) and West Virginia (  2  ).  A motion for a new trial was granted in   one   of the cases in Florida and in the case in Alaska.      In the Alaska case (  Hunter  ), the trial court withdrew its order for a new trial upon PM USA s motion for reconsideration.  On December 18, 2015, the Alaska Supreme Court reversed the trial court decision and remanded the case with directions for the trial court to reassess whether to grant a new trial.  See   Types and Number of Cases   above for a discussion of the trial results in   In re: Tobacco Litigation   (West Virginia consolidated cases). 
  Of the   19   non-  Engle   progeny cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs,   15   have reached final resolution.  A verdict against defendants in   one   health care cost recovery case (  Blue Cross/Blue Shield  ) was reversed and all claims were dismissed with prejudice.  In addition, a verdict against defendants in a purported  Lights  class action in Illinois (  Price  ) was reversed and the case was dismissed with prejudice in December 2006, but plaintiffs sought to reinstate the verdict, which an intermediate appellate court ordered in April 2014.  On November 4, 2015, the Illinois Supreme Court vacated the Fifth Judicial District s decision, finding that the plaintiffs filed the wrong motion in the wrong court.  On November 18, 2015, the plaintiffs filed a new motion with the Illinois Supreme Court seeking to recall its original mandate, which the court denied on January 11, 2016.  See    Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases - The Price Case   below for a discussion of developments in   Price  .   
  As of January 26, 2016,   92   state and federal   Engle   progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court s   Engle   decision as follows:   51   verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs;   39   verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA; and   two   verdicts that were initially returned in favor of plaintiffs were reversed on appeal and remain pending.  See   Smoking and Health Litigation - Engle Progeny Trial Court Results   below for a discussion of these verdicts.    

Judgments Paid and Provisions for Tobacco and Health Litigation Items (Including   Engle   Progeny Litigation):        After exhausting all appeals in those cases resulting in adverse verdicts associated with tobacco-related litigation, since October 2004, PM USA has paid in the aggregate judgments (and related costs and fees) totaling approximately   $323 million   and interest totaling approximately   $144 million   as of December 31, 2015.  These amounts include payments for   Engle   progeny judgments (and related costs and fees) totaling approximately   $22 million  , interest totaling approximately   $3 million   and payment of approximately   $43 million   in connection with the Federal   Engle   Agreement, discussed below. 
  The changes in Altria Group, Inc. s accrued liability for tobacco and health litigation items, including related interest costs, for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were as follows:  

The accrued liability for tobacco and health litigation items, including related interest costs, was included in liabilities on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated balance sheets.  Pre-tax charges for tobacco and health judgments, the agreement to resolve federal   Engle   progeny cases (discussed below under    Agreement to Resolve Federal Engle Progeny Cases   ) and corrective communications were included in marketing, administration and research costs on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings.  Pre-tax charges for related interest costs were included in interest and other debt expense, net on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated statements of earnings. 
     Security for Judgments:        To obtain stays of judgments pending current appeals, as of   December 31, 2015  , PM USA has posted various forms of security totaling approximately   $77 million  , the majority of which has been collateralized with cash deposits that are included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheet. 

67 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Smoking and Health Litigation 
     Overview:    Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in smoking and health cases are based on various theories of recovery, including negligence, gross negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, nuisance, breach of express and implied warranties, breach of special duty, conspiracy, concert of action, violations of deceptive trade practice laws and consumer protection statutes, and claims under the federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.  Plaintiffs in the smoking and health cases seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, treble/multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, creation of medical monitoring and smoking cessation funds, disgorgement of profits, and injunctive and equitable relief.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of proximate cause, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, statutes of limitations and preemption by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act.  
     Non-  Engle   Progeny Litigation:      Summarized below are the non-  Engle   progeny smoking and health cases pending during 2015 in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs and against PM USA.  Charts listing the verdicts for plaintiffs in the   Engle   progeny cases can be found in   Smoking and Health Litigation - Engle Progeny Trial Results   below.    
  Bullock  :  On December 10, 2015, a jury in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff, awarding   $900,000   in compensatory damages.  On January 8, 2016, the plaintiff moved for a new trial.  
  Schwarz  :      In   March 2002  , an Oregon jury awarded   $168,500   in compensatory damages and   $150 million   in punitive damages against PM USA.  In   May 2002  , the trial court reduced the punitive damages award to   $100 million  .  In May 2006, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the compensatory damages verdict, reversed the award of punitive damages and remanded the case to the trial court for a second trial to determine the amount of punitive damages, if any.  In June 2010, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the court of appeals  decision and remanded the case to the trial court for a new trial limited to the question of punitive damages.  In   December 2010  , the Oregon Supreme Court reaffirmed its earlier ruling and awarded PM USA approximately   $500,000   in costs.  Trial on the amount of punitive damages began in January 2012.  In   February 2012  , the jury awarded plaintiff   $25 million   in punitive damages.  In July 2015, the Oregon Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment in favor of plaintiff and in September 2015, PM USA filed a petition for review with the Oregon Supreme Court, which the court denied on November 12, 2015.  In the fourth quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $34 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs. 
     Federal Government s Lawsuit:     See   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   below for a discussion of the verdict and post-trial developments in the   United States of America   health care cost recovery case. 

Engle   Class Action:    In July 2000, in the second phase of the   Engle   smoking and health class action in Florida, a jury returned a verdict assessing punitive damages totaling approximately   $145 billion   against various defendants, including   $74 billion   against PM USA. Following entry of judgment, PM USA appealed.  
  In May 2001, the trial court approved a stipulation providing that execution of the punitive damages component of the   Engle   judgment will remain stayed against PM USA and the other participating defendants through the completion of all judicial review.  As a result of the stipulation, PM USA placed   $500 million   into an interest-bearing escrow account that, regardless of the outcome of the judicial review, was to be paid to the court and the court was to determine how to allocate or distribute it consistent with Florida Rules of Civil Procedure.  In May 2003, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment entered by the trial court and instructed the trial court to order the decertification of the class.  Plaintiffs petitioned the Florida Supreme Court for further review.  
  In July 2006, the Florida Supreme Court ordered that the punitive damages award be vacated, that the class approved by the trial court be decertified and that members of the decertified class could file individual actions against defendants within   one year   of issuance of the mandate.  The court further declared the following Phase I findings are entitled to   res judicata   effect in such individual actions brought within one year of the issuance of the mandate: (i) that smoking causes various diseases; (ii) that nicotine in cigarettes is addictive; (iii) that defendants  cigarettes were defective and unreasonably dangerous; (iv) that defendants concealed or omitted material information not otherwise known or available knowing that the material was false or misleading or failed to disclose a material fact concerning the health effects or addictive nature of smoking; (v) that defendants agreed to misrepresent information regarding the health effects or addictive nature of cigarettes with the intention of causing the public to rely on this information to their detriment; (vi) that defendants agreed to conceal or omit information regarding the health effects of cigarettes or their addictive nature with the intention that smokers would rely on the information to their detriment; (vii) that all defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that were defective; and (viii) that defendants were negligent.  The court also reinstated compensatory damages awards totaling approximately   $6.9 million   to   two   individual plaintiffs and found that a third plaintiff s claim was barred by the statute of limitations.  In   February 2008  , PM USA paid approximately   $3 million  , representing its share of compensatory damages and interest, to the two individual plaintiffs identified in the Florida Supreme Court s order. 
  In August 2006, PM USA sought rehearing from the Florida Supreme Court on parts of its July 2006 opinion, including the ruling (described above) that certain jury findings have   res judicata   effect in subsequent individual trials timely brought by   Engle   class members.  The rehearing motion also asked, among other things, that legal errors that were raised but not expressly ruled upon in the Florida Third District Court of Appeal or in the Florida Supreme Court now be addressed.  Plaintiffs also filed a motion for rehearing in August 2006 seeking clarification of the  

68 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     applicability of the statute of limitations to non-members of the decertified class.  In December 2006, the Florida Supreme Court refused to revise its July 2006 ruling, except that it revised the set of Phase I findings entitled to   res judicata   effect by excluding finding (v) listed above (relating to agreement to misrepresent information), and added the finding that defendants sold or supplied cigarettes that, at the time of sale or supply, did not conform to the representations of fact made by defendants.  In January 2007, the Florida Supreme Court issued the mandate from its revised opinion.  Defendants then filed a motion with the Florida Third District Court of Appeal requesting that the court address legal errors that were previously raised by defendants but have not yet been addressed either by the Florida Third District Court of Appeal or by the Florida Supreme Court.  In February 2007, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal denied defendants  motion.  In May 2007, defendants  motion for a partial stay of the mandate pending the completion of appellate review was denied by the Florida Third District Court of Appeal.  In May 2007, defendants filed a petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States Supreme Court, which the United States Supreme Court denied later in 2007. 
  In February 2008, the trial court decertified the class, except for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation, and formally vacated the punitive damages award pursuant to the Florida Supreme Court s mandate.  In April 2008, the trial court ruled that certain defendants, including PM USA, lacked standing with respect to allocation of the funds escrowed under the May 2001 bond stipulation and would receive no credit at that time from the   $500 million   paid by PM USA against any future punitive damages awards in cases brought by former   Engle   class members.  
  In May 2008, the trial court, among other things, decertified the limited class maintained for purposes of the May 2001 bond stipulation and, in July 2008, severed the remaining plaintiffs  claims except for those of Howard Engle.  The only remaining plaintiff in the   Engle   case, Howard Engle, voluntarily dismissed his claims with prejudice.  
     Engle   Progeny Cases:    The deadline for filing   Engle   progeny cases, as required by the Florida Supreme Court s   Engle   decision, expired in January 2008.  As of January 26, 2016, approximately   3,040   state court cases were pending against PM USA or Altria Group, Inc. asserting individual claims by or on behalf of approximately   4,000   state court plaintiffs.  While the Federal   Engle   Agreement (discussed below) resolved nearly all   Engle   progeny cases pending in federal court, as of January 26, 2016,   23   cases were pending against PM USA in federal court representing the cases excluded from that agreement.  Because of a number of factors, including, but not limited to, docketing delays, duplicated filings and overlapping dismissal orders, these numbers are estimates. 
     Agreement to Resolve Federal   Engle   Progeny Cases:    In February 2015, PM USA, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company ( R.J.  

Reynolds ) and Lorillard Tobacco Company ( Lorillard ) reached a tentative agreement to resolve approximately   415   pending federal   Engle   progeny cases (the  Federal   Engle   Agreement ).  Under the terms of the Federal   Engle   Agreement, PM USA paid into escrow approximately   $43 million   in March  2015.  PM USA recorded a pre-tax provision of approximately   $43 million   in the first quarter of 2015.  Federal cases that were in trial as of February 25, 2015 and those that have previously reached final verdict were not included in the Federal   Engle   Agreement.  The Federal   Engle   Agreement was conditioned on approval by all federal court plaintiffs in the cases resolved by the Federal   Engle   Agreement or as the parties otherwise agree.  The parties satisfied all conditions and, in December 2015, the cases subject to the Federal   Engle   Agreement were dismissed, thereby entitling plaintiffs to the   $43 million   escrow amount.  
     Engle   Progeny Trial Results:    As of January 26, 2016,   92   federal and state   Engle   progeny cases involving PM USA have resulted in verdicts since the Florida Supreme Court   Engle   decision.   Fifty-one   verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs and   two   verdicts (  Graham   and   Skolnick  ) that were initially returned in favor of plaintiffs were reversed on appeal and remain pending.  
    Thirty-nine   verdicts were returned in favor of PM USA, of which   30   were state cases (  Gelep  ,   Kalyvas  ,   Gil de Rubio  ,   Warrick  ,   Willis  ,   Russo   (formerly   Frazier  ),   C. Campbell  ,   Rohr  ,   Espinosa  ,   Oliva  ,   Weingart  ,   Junious  ,   Szymanski  ,   Hancock  ,   D. Cohen  ,   LaMotte  ,   J. Campbell  ,   Dombey  ,   Haldeman  ,   Blasco  ,   Gonzalez  ,   Banks  ,   Surico  ,   Baum  ,   Bishop  ,   Vila  ,   McMannis  ,   Collar  ,   Suarez   and   Shulman  ) and   9   were federal cases (  Gollihue  ,   McCray  ,   Denton  ,   Wilder  ,   Jacobson  ,   Reider  ,   Davis  ,   Starbuck   and   Sowers  ).  In addition, there have been a number of mistrials, only some of which have resulted in new trials as of January 26, 2016. The juries in the   Reider   and   Banks   cases returned zero damages verdicts in favor of PM USA  .    The juries in the   Weingart   and   Hancock   cases returned verdicts against PM USA awarding no damages, but the trial court in each case granted an   additur  .  In the   Russo   case (formerly   Frazier  ), however, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal reversed the judgment in defendants  favor in April 2012 and remanded the case for a new trial.  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed the reversal, rejecting defendants  argument that the statute of repose applies to fraud and conspiracy claims in   Engle   progeny cases.  In the trial court, the case was retried and, in April 2015, the jury returned a verdict in favor of defendants.  
  The charts below list the verdicts and post-trial developments in certain   Engle   progeny cases in which verdicts were returned in favor of plaintiffs (including   Hancock  , where the verdict originally was returned in favor of PM USA).  The first chart lists such cases that are pending as of January 26, 2016; the second chart lists such cases that were pending within the previous 12 months, but that are now concluded. 

69 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Currently-Pending Cases 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Ledoux 
  Date:        December 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Miami-Dade County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $10 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   47%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $12.5 million   in punitive damages against each defendant.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On January 4, 2016, PM USA and R.J. Reynolds filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  On January 6, 2016, the trial court entered final judgment against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Barbose 
  Date:        November 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Pasco County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $10 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   42.5%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $500,000   in punitive damages against each defendant.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On November 23, 2015, the court entered final judgment in favor of plaintiff without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  On December 2, 2015, PM USA and R.J. Reynolds filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, which the court denied on January 21, 2016.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Tognoli 
  Date:        November 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding   $1.05 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   15%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $157,500  ).  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On December 3, 2015, PM USA filed a motion to set aside the verdict and for judgment in accordance with its motion for directed verdict.  On January 14, 2016, the trial court entered final judgment against PM USA with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  On January 15, 2016, plaintiff filed an appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  On January 19, 2016, the trial court denied PM USA s post-trial motions and, on January 25, 2016, PM USA cross-appealed. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Danielson 
  Date:        November 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  An Escambia County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding   $325,000   in compensatory damages and allocating   49%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $325,000   in punitive damages.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  On November 17, 2015, plaintiff filed a motion to enforce the parties  pretrial stipulation of   $2.3 million   in economic damages.  The plaintiff also filed a motion for an   additur   or, in the alternative, for a new trial.  On November 19, 2015, PM USA filed post-trial motions, including a motion concerning the proper form of judgment and for a new trial.  On December 31, 2015, the trial court granted plaintiff s motion for a new trial on damages and denied PM USA s post-trial motions.  On January 13, 2016, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal.      
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  70 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:   Marchese 
  Date:        October 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $1 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   22.5%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $250,000   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In October 2015, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  On November 5, 2015, the court entered final judgment in favor of plaintiff.  The post-trial motions remain pending. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Duignan 
  Date:        September 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Pinellas County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $6 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   37%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $3.5 million   in punitive damages against PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In September 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault, and PM USA filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, which the court denied in October 2015.  On November 12, 2015, PM USA and R.J. Reynolds filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal and, on November 16, 2015, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of approximately   $2.7 million  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Cooper 
  Date:        September 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $4.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   10%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $450,000  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In September 2015, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a directed verdict.  On January 4, 2016, the trial court denied PM USA s post-trial motions. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Jordan 
  Date:        August 2015 
    
  Verdict:   
  A Duval County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding approximately   $7.8 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   60%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded approximately   $3.2 million   in punitive damages. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In August 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault, but reduced the compensatory damages to approximately   $6.4 million  .  PM USA filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, which the court denied on December 3, 2015.  On December 28, 2015, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal.    
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Merino 
  Date:        July 2015    
    
  Verdict:   
  A Miami-Dade County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding   $8 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   70%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded   $6.5 million   in punitive damages. 
      
  71 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Post-Trial Developments: 
  In August 2015, the trial court denied all post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, and entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In   September 2015, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal and posted a bond in the amount of     $5 million  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   McCoy 
  Date:        July 2015    
    
  Verdict:   
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding   $1.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   20%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $300,000  ).  The jury also awarded   $3 million   in punitive damages against each defendant.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In July 2015, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In August 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  On January 4, 2016, the trial court denied defendants  post-trial motions and amended the final judgment to apply the comparative fault deduction.  On January 20, 2016, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  On January 22, 2016, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of approximately   $1.65 million  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   M. Brown 
  Date:        May 2015    
    
  Verdict:   
  In May 2015, a Duval County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA in a partial retrial.  In 2013, a jury returned a partial verdict against PM USA, but was deadlocked as to (i) the amount of compensatory damages, (ii) whether punitive damages should be awarded and, if so, (iii) the amount of punitive damages.  In the partial retrial, the jury was asked to address these issues.  In May 2015, the jury awarded   $6.375 million   in compensatory damages, but did not award any punitive damages.   
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In May 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $5 million  .  Additionally, PM USA filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, as well as filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal.  In August 2015, the trial court denied the last of PM USA s post-trial motions and plaintiff cross-appealed. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Gore 
  Date:        March 2015    
    
  Verdict:   
  An Indian River County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $2 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   23%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $460,000  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In April 2015, defendants filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In September 2015, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In October 2015, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal and PM USA subsequently posted a bond in the amount of   $460,000  .   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Pollari 
  Date:        March 2015    
    
  Verdict:  
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $10 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   42.5%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $4.25 million  ).  The jury also awarded   $1.5 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 

72 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Post-Trial Developments: 
  In April 2015, defendants filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial, and the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  On January 4, 2016, the trial court denied defendants  post-trial motions and amended the final judgment to apply the comparative fault deduction.  On January 27, 2016, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Zamboni 
  Date:        February 2015    
    
  Verdict:     
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding   $340,000   in compensatory damages and allocating   10%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $34,000  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In April 2015, PM USA and R.J. Reynolds filed a motion for judgment in defendants  favor in accordance with the Eleventh Circuit s decision in   Graham.    In June 2015, the trial court stayed the case pending the Eleventh Circuit s final disposition in the   Graham   case, discussed below. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Caprio 
  Date:        February 2015    
    
  Verdict:  
  A Broward County jury returned a partial verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and Liggett Group LLC ( Liggett Group ).  The jury found against defendants on class membership, allocating   25%   of the fault to PM USA. The jury also found   $559,172   in economic damages. The jury deadlocked with respect to the intentional torts, certain elements of compensatory damages and punitive damages. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In March 2015, PM USA filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the partial verdict and for a new trial.  In May 2015, the court denied all of PM USA s post-trial motions and defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   McKeever 
  Date:        February 2015    
    
  Verdict:     
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding approximately   $5.8 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   60%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff approximately   $11.63 million   in punitive damages.  However, the jury found in favor of PM USA on the statute of repose defense to plaintiff s intentional tort and punitive damages claims.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In March 2015, PM USA filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and motions for a new trial.  In April 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In June 2015, the trial court denied PM USA s post-trial motions, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $5 million  .  PM USA also filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal in June 2015.  
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   D. Brown 
  Date:        January 2015    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict against PM USA awarding plaintiff approximately   $8.3 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   55%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $9 million   in punitive damages. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In February 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In March 2015, PM  
      
  73 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   USA filed various post-trial motions, including motions to alter or amend the judgment and for a new trial or, in the alternative,   remittitur   of the damages awards, all of which the court denied.  In July 2015, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  In August 2015, the Court of Appeals granted PM USA s motion to stay the appeal pending disposition of   Graham  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Allen 
  Date:        November 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Duval County jury returned a verdict against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding plaintiff approximately   $3.1 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   6%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded approximately   $7.76 million   in punitive damages against each defendant.  This was a retrial of a 2011 trial that awarded plaintiff   $6 million   in compensatory damages and   $17 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In December 2014, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and motions for a new trial, which the court denied in July 2015.  In August 2015, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  Defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal in September 2015 and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of approximately   $2.5 million  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Perrotto 
  Date:        November 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and Liggett Group awarding plaintiff approximately   $4.1 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   25%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $1.02 million  ).  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In December 2014, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault, and plaintiff filed a motion for a new trial.  In addition, in December 2014, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and motions for a new trial. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Boatright 
  Date:        November 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Polk County jury returned a verdict against PM USA and Liggett Group awarding plaintiff   $15 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   85%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $12.75 million  ).  In addition, in November 2014, the jury awarded plaintiff approximately   $19.7 million   in punitive damages against PM USA and   $300,000   in punitive damages against Liggett Group. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In November 2014, PM USA filed various post-trial motions and, in January 2015, the trial court denied PM USA s motions for a new trial and for   remittitur  , but entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In February 2015, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $3.98 million  .   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Kerrivan 
  Date:        October 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds awarding plaintiff   $15.8 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   50%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $25.3 million   in punitive damages and allocated   $15.7 million   to PM USA. 

74 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Post-Trial Developments: 
  The trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In December 2014, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including a renewed motion for judgment or for a new trial.  Plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal.  In May 2015, the trial court deferred further briefing on the post-trial motions pending the Eleventh Circuit s final disposition in the   Graham   and   Searcy   cases, discussed below. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Lourie 
  Date:        October 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Hillsborough County jury returned a verdict against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding plaintiff approximately   $1.37 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   27%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $370,000  ).  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In October 2014, defendants filed a motion for judgment and a motion for a new trial.  In November 2014, the trial court denied defendants  post-trial motions and entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  Later in November 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $370,318  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Berger 
  Date:        September 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict against PM USA awarding plaintiff   $6.25 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   60%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded   $20.76 million   in punitive damages. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The trial court entered final judgment in September 2014 without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In October 2014, plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal.  Also in October 2014, PM USA filed a motion for a new trial or, in the alternative,   remittitur   of the jury s damages awards.  In April 2015, the trial court granted PM USA s post-verdict motion in part and vacated the punitive damages award.  With respect to the compensatory damages award, the court stayed the judgment pending the Eleventh Circuit s final disposition in the   Graham   case, discussed below.  In May 2015, plaintiff filed a motion for reconsideration of the order on the post-verdict motion, which the court denied and lifted the stay on November 18, 2015.  On November 19, 2015, the court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  On November 23, 2015, PM USA filed a motion to continue to stay the judgment pending final disposition in   Graham  , which the court denied on November 24, 2015.  On December 18, 2015, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Harris    
  Date:      July 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  The U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding approximately   $1.73 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   15%   of the fault to PM USA.   
    
  Post-Trial Developments:   
  Defendants filed motions for a defense verdict because the jury s findings indicated that plaintiff was not a member of the   Engle   class.  In December 2014, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault and, in January 2015, defendants filed a renewed motion for judgment as a matter of law or, in the alternative, a motion for a new trial.  Defendants also filed a motion to alter or amend the final judgment.  In April 2015, the trial court stayed the post-trial proceedings pending the Eleventh Circuit s final disposition in the   Graham   case, discussed below.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  75 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:   Griffin    
  Date:      June 2014    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA awarding approximately   $1.27 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   50%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $630,000  ).     
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The trial court entered final judgment against PM USA in July 2014 with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In August 2014, PM USA filed a motion to amend the judgment to reduce plaintiff s damages by the amount paid by collateral sources, which the court denied in September 2014.  In October 2014, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $640,543   and filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  In May 2015, the Eleventh Circuit stayed the appeal pending final disposition in the   Graham   case, discussed below.   _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Burkhart 
  Date:      May 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding   $5 million   in compensatory damages and allocating   15%   of the fault to PM USA.  The jury also awarded plaintiff   $2.5 million   in punitive damages, allocating   $750,000   to PM USA.    
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In July 2014, defendants filed post-trial motions, including a renewed motion for judgment or, alternatively, for a new trial or   remittitur   of the damages awards, which the court denied in September 2014.  The trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In October 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Bowden    
  Date:      March 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A Duval County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   30%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $1.5 million  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments:   
  The trial court entered final judgment in March 2014 with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.      In April 2014, defendants filed post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdict.  In May 2014, the court denied defendants  post-trial motions.  In June 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $1.5 million  .   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Greene   (formerly   Rizzuto  ) 
  Date:      August 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Hernando County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $12.55 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   55%   of the fault to PM USA.    
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In September 2013, defendants filed post-trial motions, including a motion to reduce damages.  In September 2013, the trial court granted a   remittitur   in part on economic damages, which the court reduced from   $2.55 million   to   $1.1 million   for a total award of   $11.1 million   in compensatory damages.  The trial court entered final judgment without a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  The court denied all other motions except for defendants  motion for a juror interview, which was granted.  In October 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fifth District Court of Appeal, which ordered resolution of the juror issue prior to appeal.  In December 2013, subsequent to the juror interview, the court entered an order that granted no relief with respect to the alleged misconduct of the juror.  In July 2015, the Florida Fifth District Court of Appeal found that the trial court should have applied the comparative fault  
      
  76 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   deduction to the compensatory damages award.  As a result, the judgment against PM USA was reduced to approximately   $6.1 million  .  In September 2015, the Fifth District Court of Appeal denied PM USA s motion for rehearing.  In October 2015, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $6.1 million  .  In the third quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $6.7 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Skolnick 
  Date:      June 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Palm Beach County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $2.555 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   30%   of the fault to each defendant (an amount of   $766,500  ).     
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, defendants and plaintiff filed post-trial motions.  The trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In November 2013, the trial court denied plaintiff s post-trial motion and, in December 2013, denied defendants  post-trial motions.  Defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal, and plaintiffs cross-appealed in December 2013.  Also in December 2013, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $766,500  .  In July 2015, the District Court of Appeal reversed the compensatory damages award and ordered judgment in favor of defendants on the strict liability and negligence claims, but remanded plaintiff s conspiracy and concealment claims for a new trial.  In August 2015, defendants filed a motion for rehearing, and plaintiff filed a motion for clarification, which the District Court of Appeal denied in September 2015. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Starr-Blundell 
  Date:      June 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Duval County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $500,000   in compensatory damages and allocated   10%   of the fault to each defendant (an amount of   $50,000  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, the defendants filed a motion to set aside the verdict and to enter judgment in accordance with their motion for directed verdict or, in the alternative, for a new trial, which was denied in October 2013.  In November 2013, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In December 2013, plaintiff filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal.  Plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal.  In May 2015, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment.  In June 2015, plaintiff filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In July 2015, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the case pending the outcome of   Soffer  , discussed below.     
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Graham 
  Date:        May 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds. The jury awarded   $2.75 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   10%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $275,000  ).   
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for judgment as a matter of law and for a new trial, which the trial court denied in September 2013.  The trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In October 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit arguing that   Engle   progeny plaintiffs  product liability claims are impliedly preempted by federal law, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $277,750  .  In April 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit found in favor of defendants on the basis of federal preemption, reversed the trial court s denial of judgment as a matter of law, and plaintiff filed a petition for rehearing   en banc   or panel rehearing.  On January 21, 2016, the Eleventh Circuit granted a rehearing   en banc  .    
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  77 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:    Searcy 
  Date:        April 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $6 million   in compensatory damages (allocating   30%   of the fault to each defendant) and   $10 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2013, the trial court entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In July 2013, defendants filed various post-trial motions, including motions requesting reductions in damages.  In September 2013, the district court reduced the compensatory damages award to   $1 million   and the punitive damages award to   $1.67 million   against each defendant.  The district court denied all other post-trial motions.  Plaintiffs filed a motion to reconsider the district court s   remittitur   and, in the alternative, to certify the issue to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, both of which the court denied in October 2013.  In November 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit.  In December 2013, defendants filed an amended notice of appeal after the district court corrected a clerical error in the final judgment, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of approximately   $2.2 million  .   _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Buchanan    
  Date:         December 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Leon County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded   $5.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   37%   of the fault to each of the defendants. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In December 2012, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdict.  In March 2013, the trial court denied all motions and entered final judgment against PM USA and Liggett Group without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In April 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida First District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $2.5 million  .  In July 2014, the Florida First District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment, but certified to the Florida Supreme Court the issue of the statute of repose, which was before the court in   Hess  .  In August 2014, defendants filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In September 2014, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the case pending the outcome of   Hess  .  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the statute of repose defense in   Hess,   and PM USA moved for a rehearing.  In September 2015, the Florida Supreme Court denied PM USA s rehearing petition in   Hess  .  In the third quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $4.1 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Hancock 
  Date:         August 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in the amount of   zero   damages and allocated   5%   of the fault to each of the defendants (PM USA and R.J. Reynolds).  The trial court granted an   additur   of approximately   $110,000  , which is subject to the jury s comparative fault finding. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In August 2012, defendants moved to set aside the verdict and to enter judgment in accordance with their motion for directed verdict.  Defendants also moved to reduce damages, which motion the court granted.  The trial court granted defendants  motion to set off the damages award by the amount of economic damages paid by third parties, which will reduce further any final award.  In October 2012, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault (PM USA s portion of the damages was approximately   $700  ) and PM USA filed a motion to amend the judgment to award PM USA attorneys  fees of approximately   $20,000  .  In November 2012, both sides filed notices of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  Plaintiff agreed to waive the bond for the appeal.  In April 2015, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court s verdict.  In May 2015, plaintiff filed a motion for rehearing and for a written opinion and rehearing   en banc  , which the Court of Appeal denied in June 2015.  PM USA s motion for a fee award remains pending. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
      
  78 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:    Calloway 
  Date:         May 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds, Lorillard and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded approximately   $21 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   25%   of the fault against PM USA.  The jury also awarded approximately   $17 million   in punitive damages against PM USA, approximately   $17 million   in punitive damages against R.J. Reynolds, approximately   $13 million   in punitive damages against Lorillard and approximately   $8 million   in punitive damages against Liggett Group. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In May and June 2012, defendants filed motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In August 2012, the trial court denied the remaining post-trial motions, reduced the compensatory damages to   $16.1 million   and entered final judgment without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In September 2012, PM USA posted a bond in an amount of   $1.5 million   and defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal.  In August 2013, plaintiff filed a motion to determine the sufficiency of the bond in the trial court on the ground that the bond cap statute is unconstitutional, which the court denied.  On January 6, 2016, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal vacated the punitive damages award and remanded the case for retrial on plaintiff s claims of concealment and conspiracy, and punitive damages.  The court also found that the trial court should have applied the comparative fault deduction, reducing the compensatory damages against PM USA to   $4.025 million  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Hallgren 
  Date:         January 2012           
    
  Verdict: 
  A Highland County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded approximately   $2 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   25%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $500,000  ).  The jury also awarded   $750,000   in punitive damages against each of the defendants. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  The trial court entered final judgment in March 2012 with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In April 2012, PM USA posted a bond in an amount of approximately   $1.25 million  .  In May 2012, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Second District Court of Appeal.  In October 2013, the Second District Court of Appeal affirmed the judgment.  In November 2013, defendants filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In June 2014, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the case pending the outcome of   Russo   (presenting the same statute of repose issue as   Hess  ).  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the statute of repose defense in the   Hess   and   Russo   cases, and defendants moved for a rehearing.  Additionally, in April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the case pending the outcome of   Soffer   (presenting the issue of whether   Engle   progeny plaintiffs may seek punitive damages on their negligence and strict liability claims).  In September 2015, the Florida Supreme Court denied PM USA s rehearing petition in   Hess   and   Russo  .  In October 2015, the Florida Supreme Court lifted its stay of the case and ordered defendants to show cause why the court should not decline to exercise jurisdiction, to which defendants responded.  On January 12, 2016, the Florida Supreme Court denied defendants  petition for discretionary review.  On January 20, 2016, PM USA amended its bond to post an additional amount of approximately   $500,000  .  In the first quarter of 2016, PM USA will record a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $2.2 million   for the judgment plus interest, fees and associated costs.      
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Kayton   (formerly   Tate  ) 
  Date:         July 2010    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA.  The jury awarded   $8 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   64%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $5.1 million  ).  The jury also awarded approximately   $16.2 million   in punitive damages against PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In August 2010, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault, and PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a   $5 million   bond.  In November 2012, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal reversed the punitive damages award and remanded the case for a new trial on plaintiff s conspiracy claim.  PM USA filed a motion for rehearing, which was denied in January 2013.  In January 2013, plaintiff and defendant each filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida  
      
  79 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Supreme Court.  In June 2013, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the appeal pending the outcome of   Hess  .  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the statute of repose defense in   Hess  ,     and PM USA moved for a rehearing.   In September 2015, the Florida Supreme Court denied PM USA s rehearing petition in   Hess  .   In the third quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $28.2 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Putney 
  Date:         April 2010    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Liggett Group.  The jury awarded approximately   $15.1 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   15%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $2.3 million  ).  The jury also awarded   $2.5 million   in punitive damages against PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In August 2010, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  PM USA filed its notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal and, in November 2010, posted a   $1.6 million   bond.  In June 2013, the Fourth District Court of Appeal reversed and remanded the case for further proceedings, holding that the trial court erred in (1) not reducing the compensatory damages award as excessive and (2) not instructing the jury on the statute of repose in connection with plaintiff s conspiracy claim that resulted in the   $2.5 million   punitive damages award.  In July 2013, plaintiff filed a motion for rehearing, which the Fourth District Court of Appeal denied in August 2013.  In September 2013, both parties filed notices to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In December 2013, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the appeal pending the outcome of the   Hess   case.  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the statute of repose defense in   Hess  , and PM USA moved for a rehearing.  In September 2015, the Florida Supreme Court denied PM USA s rehearing petition in   Hess  .  The case remains subject to further proceedings on compensatory damages in the trial court. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    R. Cohen 
  Date:         March 2010    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $10 million   in compensatory damages and allocated 33 1/3% of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $3.3 million  ).  The jury also awarded a total of   $20 million   in punitive damages, assessing separate   $10 million   awards against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In July 2010, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In August 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal.  In October 2010, PM USA posted a   $2.5 million   bond.  In September 2012, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the compensatory damages award but reversed and remanded the punitive damages verdict.  The Fourth District returned the case to the trial court for a new jury trial on plaintiff s fraudulent concealment claim.  In January 2013, plaintiff and defendants each filed a notice to invoke the discretionary jurisdiction of the Florida Supreme Court.  In February 2013, the Fourth District granted defendants  motion to stay the mandate.  In March 2013, plaintiff filed a motion for review of the stay order with the Florida Supreme Court, which was denied in April 2013.  In June 2013, plaintiff moved to consolidate with   Hess   and   Kayton  , which defendants did not oppose, but in October 2013, plaintiff withdrew the motion for consolidation  .    In February 2014, the Florida Supreme Court stayed the appeal pending the outcome of the   Hess   case.  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the statute of repose defense in   Hess  ,     and PM USA moved for a rehearing.  In September 2015, the Florida Supreme Court denied PM USA s rehearing petition in   Hess  .   In the third quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $17.9 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Naugle 
  Date:         November 2009    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded approximately   $56.6 million   in compensatory damages and   $244 million   in punitive damages. The jury allocated   90%   of the fault to PM USA. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In March 2010, the trial court entered final judgment reflecting a reduced award of approximately   $13 million   in compensatory damages  
      
  80 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   and   $26 million   in punitive damages, but without any deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In April 2010, PM USA filed its notice of appeal and posted a   $5 million   bond. In August 2010, upon the motion of PM USA, the trial court entered an amended final judgment of approximately   $12.3 million   in compensatory damages and approximately   $24.5 million   in punitive damages to correct a clerical error.  In June 2012, the Fourth District Court of Appeal affirmed the amended final judgment.  In July 2012, PM USA filed a motion for rehearing.  In December 2012, the Fourth District withdrew its prior decision, reversed the verdict as to compensatory and punitive damages and returned the case to the trial court for a new trial on the question of damages.  Upon retrial on the question of damages, in October 2013, the new jury awarded approximately   $3.7 million   in compensatory damages and   $7.5 million   in punitive damages.  In October 2013, PM USA filed post-trial motions, which the trial court denied in April 2014.  In May 2014, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Fourth District Court of Appeal and plaintiff cross-appealed.  Also in May 2014, PM USA filed a rider with the Florida Supreme Court to make the previously-posted   Naugle   bond applicable to the retrial judgment.  On January 6, 2016, the Fourth District Court of Appeal reversed the trial court s decision and remanded the case to the trial court to conduct a juror interview. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:    Hess 
  Date:         February 2009    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Broward County jury found in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA. The jury awarded   $3 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   42%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of approximately   $1.2 million  ).  The jury also awarded   $5 million   in punitive damages.  
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In June 2009, the trial court entered final judgment with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal and posted a   $7 million   bond in July 2009.  In May 2012, the Fourth District reversed and vacated the punitive damages award on the basis that it was barred by the statute of repose and affirmed the judgment in all other respects, upholding the compensatory damages award of   $1.26 million  .  In June 2012, both parties filed rehearing motions with the Fourth District, which were denied in September 2012.  In October 2012, PM USA and plaintiff filed notices to invoke the Florida Supreme Court s discretionary jurisdiction.  In the first quarter of 2013, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $3.2 million   for the compensatory damages component of the judgment plus interest and associated costs.  In June 2013, the Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction of plaintiff s petition for review, but declined to accept jurisdiction of PM USA s petition.  In April 2015, the Florida Supreme Court rejected the statute of repose defense and reinstated the punitive damages award against PM USA, and PM USA moved for a rehearing. In September 2015, the Florida Supreme Court denied PM USA s rehearing petition.   In the third quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded an additional provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $6.6 million   for the punitive damages component of the judgment plus interest and associated costs.   
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Concluded Cases 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Goveia    
  Date:        February 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  An Orange County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds.  The jury awarded   $850,000   in compensatory damages and allocated   35%   of the fault against each defendant.  The jury also awarded   $2.25 million   in punitive damages against each defendant. 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In February 2014, defendants filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In April 2014, the court denied defendants  motions without a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In April 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Fifth District Court of Appeal.  In May 2014, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $2.5 million  .  In June 2015, the Fifth District Court of Appeal affirmed without opinion the trial court s judgment in favor of plaintiff.  On August 3, 2015, the Fifth  
    
  District Court of Appeal denied PM USA s motion to issue a written opinion.  In the third quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $3.2 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs, and paid this amount in August 2015. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 

81 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Plaintiff:    Ruffo 
  Date:        May 2013    
    
  Verdict: 
  A Miami-Dade County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA and Lorillard.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $1.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   12%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $180,000  ).   
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In May 2013, defendants filed several post-trial motions, including motions for a new trial and to set aside the verdict, which the trial court denied in October 2013 and entered final judgment in favor of plaintiff with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault.  In October 2013, PM USA and Lorillard appealed to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal, and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $180,000  .  In November 2014, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment and, in the fourth quarter of 2014, PM USA recorded a provision on its consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $193,000   for the judgment plus interest.  In June 2015, PM USA paid the judgment plus interest and associated costs in the amount of   $200,212  . 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Cuculino    
  Date:      January 2014    
    
  Verdict:   
  A Miami-Dade County jury returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA.  The jury awarded plaintiff   $12.5 million   in compensatory damages and allocated   40%   of the fault to PM USA (an amount of   $5 million  ). 
    
  Post-Trial Developments: 
  In January 2014, the court entered final judgment against PM USA with a deduction for plaintiff s comparative fault, and PM USA filed post-trial motions, including motions to set aside the verdict and for a new trial.  In March 2014 and April 2014, the court denied PM USA s post-trial motions.  Also in April 2014, PM USA filed a notice of appeal to the Florida Third District Court of Appeal, plaintiff cross-appealed and PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $5 million  .  In May 2015, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal affirmed the final judgment.  In the second quarter of 2015, PM USA recorded a provision on its condensed consolidated balance sheet of approximately   $5.3 million   for the judgment plus interest and associated costs and paid this amount in June 2015  .  
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
  Plaintiff:   Landau 
  Date:        February 2015    
    
  Verdict:   
  A jury in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida returned a verdict in favor of plaintiff and against PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard awarding   $100,000   in compensatory damages.   One   defendant settled the case, which resolved all claims against all defendants, including PM USA. 
  _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
       Engle   Progeny Appellate Issues:    Three   Florida federal district courts (in the   Merlob  ,   B. Brown   and   Burr   cases) ruled in 2008 that the findings in the first phase of the   Engle   proceedings cannot be used to satisfy elements of plaintiffs  claims, and   two   of those rulings (  B. Brown   and   Burr  ) were certified by the trial court for interlocutory review.  The certification in both cases was granted by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit and the appeals were consolidated.  The appeal in   Burr   was dismissed for lack of prosecution, and the case was ultimately dismissed on statute of limitations grounds. 
  In July 2010, the Eleventh Circuit ruled in   B. Brown   that, as a matter of Florida law, plaintiffs do not have an unlimited right to use the findings from the original   Engle   trial to meet their burden of establishing the elements of their claims at trial.  The Eleventh Circuit did not reach the issue of whether the use of the   Engle   findings violates defendants  due process rights.  Rather, the court held that plaintiffs may only use the findings to establish those  

specific facts, if any, that they demonstrate with a reasonable degree of certainty were actually decided by the original   Engle   jury.  The Eleventh Circuit remanded the case to the district court to determine what specific factual findings the   Engle   jury actually made. 
  After the remand of   B. Brown  , several state appellate rulings superseded the Eleventh Circuit s ruling on Florida state law.  These cases include   Martin  , a case against R.J. Reynolds in Escambia County, and   J. Brown  , a case against R.J. Reynolds in Broward County.  In December 2011, petitions for   writ of certiorari   were filed with the United States Supreme Court by R.J. Reynolds in   Campbell  ,   Martin  ,   Gray   and   Hall   and by PM USA and Liggett Group in   Campbell  .  The United States Supreme Court denied defendants    certiorari   petitions in March 2012. 
  In   Douglas  , in March 2012, the Florida Second District Court of Appeal issued a decision affirming the judgment of the trial court in favor of the plaintiff and upholding the use of the   Engle    

82 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     jury findings with respect to strict liability claims but certified to the Florida Supreme Court the question of whether granting   res judicata   effect to the   Engle   jury findings violates defendants  federal due process rights.  In March 2013, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed the final judgment entered in favor of plaintiff upholding the use of the   Engle   jury findings with respect to strict liability and negligence claims.  PM USA filed its petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States Supreme Court in August 2013, which the court denied in October 2013. 
  Meanwhile, in the   Waggoner   case, the U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Florida ruled in December 2011 that application of the   Engle   findings to establish the wrongful conduct elements of plaintiffs  claims consistent with   Martin   or   J. Brown   did not violate defendants  due process rights.  PM USA and the other defendants sought appellate review of the due process ruling.  In February 2012, the district court denied the motion for interlocutory appeal, but did apply the ruling to all active pending federal   Engle   progeny cases.  As a result, R.J. Reynolds appealed the rulings in the   Walker   and   Duke   cases to the Eleventh Circuit, which ultimately rejected the due process defense. In March 2014, R.J. Reynolds filed petitions for   writ of certiorari   to the United States Supreme Court in the   Walker   and   Duke   cases, as well as in   J. Brown  .  Defendants filed petitions for   writ of certiorari   in eight other   Engle   progeny cases that were tried in Florida state courts, including   one   case,   Barbanell  , in which PM USA was the defendant.  In these   eight   petitions, defendants asserted questions similar to those in   Walker  ,   Duke   and   J. Brown  .  In June 2014, the United States Supreme Court denied defendants  petitions for   writ of certiorari   in all   11   cases. 
  In   Graham  , an   Engle   progeny case against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds on appeal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit, defendants argued that the   Engle   progeny plaintiffs  product liability claims are impliedly preempted by federal law.  In April 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Eleventh Circuit found in favor of defendants on the basis of federal preemption, reversing the trial court s denial of judgment as a matter of law.  Also in April 2015, plaintiff filed a petition for rehearing   en banc  , which the Eleventh Circuit granted on January 21, 2016.  On January 6, 2016, in   Marotta  , a case against R.J. Reynolds on appeal to the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal, the court rejected R.J. Reynolds s federal preemption defense, but noted the conflict with   Graham   and certified the preemption question to the Florida Supreme Court.    
   In   Searcy  , an   Engle   progeny case against PM USA and R.J. Reynolds on appeal to the Eleventh Circuit, defendants argued that application of the   Engle   findings to the   Engle   progeny plaintiffs  concealment and conspiracy claims violated defendants  due process rights.  The appeal is pending.   
  In   Soffer  , an   Engle   progeny case against R.J. Reynolds, the Florida First District Court of Appeal held that   Engle   progeny plaintiffs can recover punitive damages only on their intentional tort claims.  In February 2014, the Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction over plaintiff s appeal from the Florida First District Court of Appeal s holding and heard oral argument in December 2014. 

In   Ciccone  , an   Engle   progeny case against R.J. Reynolds, the Florida Fourth District Court of Appeal held that   Engle   progeny plaintiffs could establish class membership by showing that they developed symptoms during the   Engle   class period that could, in hindsight, be attributed to their smoking-related disease.  The court certified a conflict with   Castleman  , a Florida First District Court of Appeal decision, which held that manifestation requires   Engle   progeny plaintiffs to have been aware during the class period that they had a disease caused by smoking in order to establish class membership.  The Florida Supreme Court accepted jurisdiction in the   Ciccone   case in June 2014 and heard oral argument in December 2014. 
     Florida Bond Statute:    In June 2009, Florida amended its existing bond cap statute by adding a   $200 million   bond cap that applies to all state   Engle   progeny lawsuits in the aggregate and establishes individual bond caps for individual   Engle   progeny cases in amounts that vary depending on the number of judgments in effect at a given time.  Plaintiffs in   three   state   Engle   progeny cases against R.J. Reynolds in Alachua County, Florida (  Alexander  ,   Townsend   and   Hall  ) and   one   case in Escambia County (  Clay  ) challenged the constitutionality of the bond cap statute.  The Florida Attorney General intervened in these cases in defense of the constitutionality of the statute. 
  Trial court rulings were rendered in   Clay  ,   Alexander  ,   Townsend   and   Hall   rejecting the plaintiffs  bond cap statute challenges in those cases.  The plaintiffs unsuccessfully appealed these rulings.  In   Alexander  ,   Clay   and   Hall  , the District Court of Appeal for the First District of Florida affirmed the trial court decisions and certified the decision in   Hall   for appeal to the Florida Supreme Court, but declined to certify the question of the constitutionality of the bond cap statute in   Clay   and   Alexander  .  The Florida Supreme Court granted review of the   Hall   decision, but, in September 2012, the court dismissed the appeal as moot.  In October 2012, the Florida Supreme Court denied the plaintiffs  rehearing petition.  In August 2013, in   Calloway  , discussed further above, plaintiff filed a motion in the trial court to determine the sufficiency of the bond posted by defendants on the ground that the bond cap statute is unconstitutional, which was denied. 
  No federal court has yet addressed the constitutionality of the bond cap statute or the applicability of the bond cap to   Engle   progeny cases tried in federal court.  
  Other Smoking and Health Class Actions  
  Since the dismissal in May 1996 of a purported nationwide class action brought on behalf of allegedly addicted smokers, plaintiffs have filed numerous putative smoking and health class action suits in various state and federal courts.  In general, these cases purport to be brought on behalf of residents of a particular state or states (although a few cases purport to be nationwide in scope) and raise addiction claims and, in many cases, claims of physical injury as well. 
  Class certification has been denied or reversed by courts in   60   smoking and health class actions involving PM USA in Arkansas (  1  ), California (  1  ), the District of Columbia (  2  ), Florida  

83 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     (  2  ), Illinois (  3  ), Iowa (  1  ), Kansas (  1  ), Louisiana (  1  ), Maryland (  1  ), Michigan (  1  ), Minnesota (  1  ), Nevada (  29  ), New Jersey (  6  ), New York (  2  ), Ohio (  1  ), Oklahoma (  1  ), Oregon (  1  ), Pennsylvania (  1  ), Puerto Rico (  1  ), South Carolina (  1  ), Texas (  1  ) and Wisconsin (  1  ). 
  As of January 26, 2016, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are named as defendants, along with other cigarette manufacturers, in   seven   class actions filed in the Canadian provinces of Alberta, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Saskatchewan, British Columbia and Ontario.  In Saskatchewan, British Columbia (two separate cases) and Ontario, plaintiffs seek class certification on behalf of individuals who suffer or have suffered from various diseases, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, emphysema, heart disease or cancer, after smoking defendants  cigarettes.  In the actions filed in Alberta, Manitoba and Nova Scotia, plaintiffs seek certification of classes of all individuals who smoked defendants  cigarettes.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products. 
  Medical Monitoring Class Actions 
  In medical monitoring actions, plaintiffs seek to recover the cost for, or otherwise the implementation of, court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring purportedly on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs.  Plaintiffs in these cases seek to impose liability under various product-based causes of action and the creation of a court-supervised program providing members of the purported class Low Dose CT ( LDCT ) scanning in order to identify and diagnose lung cancer.  Plaintiffs in these cases do not seek punitive damages, although plaintiffs in   Donovan   have sought permission from the court to seek to treble any damages awarded, which the court denied.  The future defense of these cases may be negatively impacted by evolving medical standards and practice. 
    One   medical monitoring class action is currently pending against PM USA.  In   Donovan  , filed in December 2006 in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts, plaintiffs purportedly brought the action on behalf of the state s residents who are: age 50 or older; have smoked the   Marlboro   brand for 20 pack-years or more; and have neither been diagnosed with lung cancer nor are under investigation by a physician for suspected lung cancer.  The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, in answering questions certified to it by the district court, held in October 2009 that under certain circumstances state law recognizes a claim by individual smokers for medical monitoring despite the absence of an actual injury.  The court also ruled that whether or not the case is barred by the applicable statute of limitations is a factual issue to be determined at trial.  The case was remanded to federal court for further proceedings.  In June 2010, the district court granted in part the plaintiffs  motion for class certification, certifying the class as to plaintiffs  claims for breach of implied warranty and violation of the Massachusetts Consumer Protection Act, but denying certification as to plaintiffs  negligence claim.  In July 2010, PM USA petitioned the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit for appellate review of the class certification decision.  The petition was denied in  

September 2010.  As a remedy, plaintiffs have proposed a 28-year medical monitoring program with a cost in excess of   $190 million  .  In October 2011, PM USA filed a motion for class decertification, which motion was denied in March 2012.  In February 2013, the district court amended the class definition to extend to individuals who satisfy the class membership criteria through February 26, 2013, and to exclude any individual who was not a Massachusetts resident as of February 26, 2013.  
  Trial began January 26, 2016 and will take place in multiple phases.  Phase I will address liability.  To the extent a Phase II is necessary, it would be tried to the court and address common questions of remedies and costs.  In July 2015, both parties filed various motions relating to Phase I, including motions for partial summary judgment and to exclude certain evidence.  In October 2015, the district court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment holding that e-vapor products may not be deemed an alternative design for ordinary cigarettes. 
  Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation 
     Overview:    In the health care cost recovery litigation, governmental entities seek reimbursement of health care cost expenditures allegedly caused by tobacco products and, in some cases, of future expenditures and damages.  Relief sought by some but not all plaintiffs includes punitive damages, multiple damages and other statutory damages and penalties, injunctions prohibiting alleged marketing and sales to minors, disclosure of research, disgorgement of profits, funding of anti-smoking programs, additional disclosure of nicotine yields, and payment of attorney and expert witness fees.  
  The claims asserted include the claim that cigarette manufacturers were  unjustly enriched  by plaintiffs  payment of health care costs allegedly attributable to smoking, as well as claims of indemnity, negligence, strict liability, breach of express and implied warranty, violation of a voluntary undertaking or special duty, fraud, negligent misrepresentation, conspiracy, public nuisance, claims under federal and state statutes governing consumer fraud, antitrust, deceptive trade practices and false advertising, and claims under federal and state anti-racketeering statutes.  
  Defenses raised include lack of proximate cause, remoteness of injury, failure to state a valid claim, lack of benefit, adequate remedy at law,  unclean hands  (namely, that plaintiffs cannot obtain equitable relief because they participated in, and benefited from, the sale of cigarettes), lack of antitrust standing and injury, federal preemption, lack of statutory authority to bring suit and statutes of limitations.  In addition, defendants argue that they should be entitled to  set off  any alleged damages to the extent the plaintiffs benefit economically from the sale of cigarettes through the receipt of excise taxes or otherwise.  Defendants also argue that these cases are improper because plaintiffs must proceed under principles of subrogation and assignment.  Under traditional theories of recovery, a payor of medical costs (such as an insurer) can seek recovery of health care costs from a third party solely by  standing in the shoes  of the injured party.  Defendants argue that plaintiffs should be required to bring any actions as subrogees of individual health care recipients and  

84 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     should be subject to all defenses available against the injured party.  
  Although there have been some decisions to the contrary, most judicial decisions in the United States have dismissed all or most health care cost recovery claims against cigarette manufacturers.  Nine federal circuit courts of appeals and eight state appellate courts, relying primarily on grounds that plaintiffs  claims were too remote, have ordered or affirmed dismissals of health care cost recovery actions.  The United States Supreme Court has refused to consider plaintiffs  appeals from the cases decided by five circuit courts of appeals.  
  Individuals and associations have also sued in purported class actions or as private attorneys general under the Medicare as Secondary Payer ( MSP ) provisions of the Social Security Act to recover from defendants Medicare expenditures allegedly incurred for the treatment of smoking-related diseases.  Cases were brought in New York (  2  ), Florida (  2  ) and Massachusetts (  1  ).  All were dismissed by federal courts. 
  In addition to the cases brought in the United States, health care cost recovery actions have also been brought against tobacco industry participants, including PM USA and Altria Group, Inc., in Israel (dismissed), the Marshall Islands (dismissed) and Canada (  10  ), and other entities have stated that they are considering filing such actions. 
  In September 2005, in the first of several health care cost recovery cases filed in Canada, the Canadian Supreme Court ruled that legislation passed in British Columbia permitting the lawsuit is constitutional, and, as a result, the case, which had previously been dismissed by the trial court, was permitted to proceed.  PM USA s and other defendants  challenge to the British Columbia court s exercise of jurisdiction was rejected by the Court of Appeals of British Columbia and, in April 2007, the Supreme Court of Canada denied review of that decision.  
  Since the beginning of 2008, the Canadian Provinces of British Columbia, New Brunswick, Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, Quebec, Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia have brought health care reimbursement claims against cigarette manufacturers.  PM USA is named as a defendant in the British Columbia and Quebec cases, while both Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA are named as defendants in the New Brunswick, Ontario, Newfoundland and Labrador, Alberta, Manitoba, Saskatchewan, Prince Edward Island and Nova Scotia cases.  The Nunavut Territory and Northwest Territory have passed similar legislation.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI that provides for indemnities for certain liabilities concerning tobacco products. 
     Settlements of Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation:    In   November 1998  , PM USA and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers entered into the 1998 Master Settlement Agreement (the  MSA ) with   46   states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, American Samoa and the Northern Marianas to settle asserted and unasserted health care cost recovery and other claims. PM USA  

and certain other United States tobacco product manufacturers had previously entered into agreements to settle similar claims brought by Mississippi, Florida, Texas and Minnesota (together with the MSA, the  State Settlement Agreements ). The State Settlement Agreements require that the original participating manufacturers or  OPMs  (PM USA, R.J. Reynolds and Lorillard) make annual payments of approximately   $9.4 billion  , subject to adjustments for several factors, including inflation, market share and industry volume.  R.J. Reynolds has since acquired Lorillard with the result that PM USA and R.J. Reynolds are the two remaining OPMs.  In addition, the original participating manufacturers are required to pay settling plaintiffs  attorneys  fees, subject to an annual cap of   $500 million  . For the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the aggregate amount recorded in cost of sales with respect to the State Settlement Agreements and the Fair and Equitable Tobacco Reform Act of 2004 ( FETRA ) was approximately   $4.5 billion  ,   $4.6 billion   and   $4.2 billion  , respectively.  The 2015 amount included a reduction to cost of sales of approximately   $126 million   related to the New York NPM Adjustment settlement discussed below partially offset by an increase to cost of sales of approximately   $29 million   as a result of the denial by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania of PM USA s petition for review of the intermediate appellate court ruling discussed below.  The 2014 and 2013 amounts included a reduction to cost of sales of approximately   $43 million   and   $664 million  , respectively, related to the NPM Adjustment Items discussed below.   
  The State Settlement Agreements also include provisions relating to advertising and marketing restrictions, public disclosure of certain industry documents, limitations on challenges to certain tobacco control and underage use laws, restrictions on lobbying activities and other provisions. 
     NPM Adjustment Disputes:    PM USA is participating in proceedings regarding potential downward adjustments (the  NPM Adjustment ) to MSA payments made by manufacturers that are signatories to the MSA (the  participating manufacturers  or  PMs ) for 2003-2014.  The NPM Adjustment is a reduction in MSA payments that applies if the PMs collectively lose at least a specified level of market share to non-participating manufacturers ( NPMs ) between 1997 and the year at issue, subject to certain conditions and defenses.  The independent auditor appointed under the MSA calculates the maximum amount, if any, of the NPM Adjustment for any year in respect of which such NPM Adjustment is potentially applicable. 
  2003-2014 NPM Adjustment Disputes - Settlement with 24 States and Territories and Settlement with New York  :  PM USA has settled the NPM Adjustment disputes for the years 2003-2012 with   24   of the   52   MSA states and territories (these   24   states and territories are referred to as the  signatory states,  and the remaining MSA states and territories are referred to as the  non-signatory states ).  Pursuant to the settlement with these   24   signatory states, PM USA has received a total of   $599 million   for 2003-2012 in the form of reductions to its MSA payments in 2013, 2014 and 2015. 

85 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     PM USA recorded   $519 million   of the   $599 million   as a reduction to cost of sales that increased its reported pre-tax earnings by   $483 million   and   $36 million   in the first quarter of 2013 and second quarter of 2013, respectively.  The remainder of the   $599 million   consists of   $80 million   attributable to   two   states that joined the settlement after having been found subject to the 2003 NPM Adjustment by an arbitration panel in the third quarter of 2013, as discussed below.  As a result of the arbitration panel s findings, however, PM USA had already recorded   $54 million   in pre-tax earnings in respect of those two states for the 2003 NPM Adjustment before they joined the settlement, leaving an additional   $26 million   to be recorded when they joined the settlement. The   $54 million   already recorded consisted of   $37 million   recorded as a reduction to cost of sales and   $17 million   recorded as interest income.  Because the   $80 million   settlement recovery would all be recorded as a reduction to cost of sales, upon these   two   states  joinder of the settlement in the second quarter of 2014, PM USA recorded a further   $43 million   reduction to cost of sales while also recording a   $17 million   reduction in interest income to reverse the earlier recording of interest income in that amount.  The result was a net increase in reported pre-tax earnings of   $26 million   in the second quarter of 2014. 
  In addition, the settlement provides that the NPM Adjustment provision will be revised and streamlined as to the signatory states for the years after 2012.  Under the revised provision, the 2013 and 2014 NPM Adjustments are  transition years,  for which the PMs receive specified payments.  PM USA has already received   $35 million   for the 2013 transition year pursuant to this revised provision in the form of a reduction to its MSA payment in 2014, resulting in a reduction to cost of sales in the first quarter of 2014.  PM USA also received an additional   $3 million   for the 2013 transition year as a result of the two additional states joining the settlement in the form of a reduction to its MSA payment in 2015.  In addition, PM USA received   $41 million   for the 2014 transition year in the form of a reduction to its MSA payment in 2015.  The original participating manufacturers have agreed that the amounts they receive under the settlement for the transition years and subsequent years will be allocated among them pursuant to a formula that modifies the MSA allocation formula in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments. 
  Many of the non-signatory states objected to the settlement before the arbitration panel hearing the 2003 NPM Adjustment dispute.  In March 2013, the panel issued a stipulated partial settlement and award (the  Stipulated Award ) rejecting the objections and permitting the settlement to proceed.  In the Stipulated Award, the arbitration panel also ruled that the total 2003 NPM Adjustment would be reduced pro rata by the aggregate allocable share of the signatory states to determine the maximum amount of the 2003 NPM Adjustment potentially available from the non-signatory states whose diligent enforcement claims the PMs continued to contest (the  pro rata judgment reduction ). 
    Fourteen   of the non-signatory states filed motions in their state courts to vacate and/or modify the Stipulated Award in  

whole or part.  Decisions by the Pennsylvania, Missouri and Maryland courts on such motions, and the subsequent appeals of those rulings, are discussed below.  One state s motion was denied without an appeal by the state.  Another state s motions remain pending in its state trial court.  As for the remaining states, rulings rejecting their motions to vacate the Stipulated Award have been affirmed on appeal, or the motions have been voluntarily dismissed or stayed pending further state action.  
  In October 2015, PM USA, along with the other MSA participating manufacturers, settled the 2004-2014 NPM Adjustment disputes with New York.  The New York settlement is separate from the settlement with the 24 signatory states and is different from that settlement in certain respects.  Pursuant to the New York settlement, PM USA expects to receive approximately   $126 million   for 2004-2014 in the form of a reduction to its MSA payment in 2016.  This amount is subject to verification by the MSA independent auditor.  PM USA recorded   $126 million   as a reduction to cost of sales in the third quarter of 2015 to reflect this new information in its estimate of MSA expenses related to prior years.  In addition, the New York settlement provides that the NPM Adjustment provision will be revised as to New York for the years after 2014.  The revised provision with respect to NPM cigarettes on which New York Excise Tax is paid is largely similar to the revised provision in the settlement with the 24 signatory states.  As to other NPM cigarettes, the New York settlement provides that, in lieu of the NPM Adjustment provision for years after 2014, New York will make annual payments tied to the number of NPM cigarettes on which New York did not collect New York Excise Tax that were sold on or through Native American reservations located in New York (or otherwise met the standard in the settlement agreement) during the year at issue to New York consumers.  These annual payments will be made in the form of reductions to future MSA payments by the participating manufacturers, beginning with the MSA payment in 2017.  The OPMs have agreed that the amounts they receive under the New York settlement for the years after 2014 will be allocated among them pursuant to a formula that modifies the MSA allocation formula in a manner favorable to PM USA, although the extent to which it remains favorable to PM USA will depend upon future developments.  Under the New York settlement, in return for the payments described above and other consideration described in the New York settlement, the MSA participating manufacturers have released New York from the NPM Adjustment provision for all years except as provided in the New York settlement. 
  2003-2014 NPM Adjustment Disputes - Continuing Disputes with Non-Signatory States other than New York  :  PM USA has continued to pursue the NPM Adjustments for 2003 and subsequent years with respect to the non-signatory states.  Under the MSA, once all conditions for the NPM Adjustment for a particular year are met (including the condition that the disadvantages of the MSA were a  significant factor  contributing to the PMs  collective loss of market share), each state may avoid an NPM Adjustment to its share of the PMs  MSA payments for that year by establishing that it diligently enforced a qualifying  

86 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     escrow statute during the entirety of that year.  Such a state s share of the NPM Adjustment would then be reallocated to any states that are found not to have diligently enforced for that year.  For 2003-2014, all conditions for the NPM Adjustment have been met, either by determination or agreement among the parties (although the parties  agreement provides that the  significant factor  condition for 2013 and 2014 will become effective in February 2016 and February 2017), respectively. 
  2003 NPM Adjustment  .  With one exception (Montana), the courts have ruled that the states  claims of diligent enforcement are to be submitted to arbitration.  PM USA and other PMs entered into an agreement with most of the MSA states and territories concerning the 2003 NPM Adjustment, under which such states and territories would receive a partial liability reduction of   20%   for the 2003 NPM Adjustment in the event the arbitration panel determined that they did not diligently enforce during 2003.  The Montana state courts ruled that Montana may litigate its diligent enforcement claims in state court, rather than in arbitration.  In June 2012, the PMs and Montana entered a consent decree pursuant to which Montana would not be subject to the 2003 NPM Adjustment. 
  In September 2013, the arbitration panel issued rulings regarding the   15   states and territories whose diligent enforcement the PMs contested that had not as of that time joined the settlement, ruling that   six   of them (Indiana, Kentucky, Maryland, Missouri, New Mexico and Pennsylvania) did not diligently enforce during 2003 and that   nine   of them did.  Based on this ruling, the PMs were entitled to receive from the   six   non-diligent states the entire 2003 NPM Adjustment remaining after the pro rata judgment reduction.  PM USA believed it was entitled to receive an NPM Adjustment for 2003 based on this ruling, after reflecting the   20%   partial liability reduction noted above, of approximately   $145 million  . PM USA recorded this   $145 million   as a reduction to cost of sales, which increased its reported pre-tax earnings in the third quarter of 2013.  In addition, PM USA believed it would be entitled to interest on this amount of approximately   $89 million  .  PM USA recorded   $64 million   of this amount as interest income, which reduced interest and other debt expense, net in the first quarter of 2014, but did not yet record the remaining   $25 million   based on its assessment of a certain dispute concerning interest discussed below. 
  After PM USA recorded these amounts,   two   of the   six   non-diligent states (Indiana and Kentucky) joined the settlement and became signatory states.  Those   two   states account for (i)   $37 million   of the   $145 million   NPM Adjustment for 2003 that PM USA recorded and (ii)   $17 million   of the interest that PM USA recorded.  PM USA has retained those amounts from the   two   states, and has received additional amounts as part of the settlement recoveries for the 2003-2012 NPM Adjustment disputes described above.  The remaining   four   states account for approximately (i)   $108 million   of the   $145 million   2003 NPM Adjustment that PM USA recorded and (ii)   $66 million   of the   $89 million   of interest to which PM USA believes it would be entitled on the   $145 million   (and   $47 million   of the   $64 million   of interest that PM USA recorded).  Each of these   four   states has filed a  

motion in its state court to (i) vacate the panel s ruling as to its diligence and (ii) to modify the pro rata judgment reduction and to substitute a reduction method more favorable to the state.  These   four   states have also raised a dispute concerning the independent auditor s calculation of interest.  In addition, another OPM has raised a dispute concerning the allocation of the interest and disputed payments account earnings among the OPMs. 
  In April 2014, a Pennsylvania state trial court denied Pennsylvania s motion to vacate the arbitration panel s ruling that Pennsylvania had not diligently enforced, but granted Pennsylvania s motion to modify, with respect to Pennsylvania, the pro rata judgment reduction.  In April 2015, a Pennsylvania intermediate appellate court affirmed the trial court s modification, with respect to Pennsylvania, of the pro rata judgment reduction.  On December 23, 2015, the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania denied PM USA s petition for further judicial review of the Pennsylvania intermediate appellate court decision.  In May 2014, a Missouri state trial court denied Missouri s motion to vacate the arbitration panel s ruling that Missouri had not diligently enforced, but granted Missouri s motion to modify, with respect to Missouri, the pro rata judgment reduction.  In September 2015, however, a Missouri intermediate appellate court reversed the Missouri state trial court s ruling that modified the pro rata judgment reduction, effectively reinstating the application of that reduction method to Missouri.  The Supreme Court of Missouri granted Missouri s request for review of the intermediate appellate court decision.  In July 2014, a Maryland state trial court denied both Maryland s motion to vacate the arbitration panel s ruling that Maryland had not diligently enforced and Maryland s motion to vacate or modify the pro rata judgment reduction.  Maryland appealed both decisions.  In October 2015, a Maryland intermediate appellate court reversed the Maryland trial court s ruling on the pro rata judgment reduction method and applied a judgment reduction method that is more favorable to the state.  PM USA is seeking further discretionary review of this decision of the Maryland intermediate appellate court.  The motions filed by the fourth state, New Mexico, remain pending in its state trial court. 
  As a result of the Pennsylvania state trial court ruling, the total 2014 MSA payment credit PM USA received on account of the 2003 NPM Adjustment from the   four   states was reduced from   $108 million   to   $79 million  , and the interest PM USA received from the   four   states was   $48 million   rather than the   $66 million   in interest to which PM USA believed it would be entitled from those   four   states.  As a result of the denial by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania of PM USA s petition for review of the intermediate appellate court ruling on the modification of the pro rata judgment reduction method, PM USA reversed   $29 million   of the reduction to cost of sales and   $13 million   of the interest income that had been previously recorded in respect of Pennsylvania for the 2003 NPM Adjustment, which reduced its reported pre-tax earnings by approximately   $42 million   in the fourth quarter of 2015.  Because the Missouri state trial court ruling post-dated PM USA s April 2014 MSA payment, that ruling did not reduce the credit that PM USA received against that payment.  If Missouri is successful on further judicial review of  

87 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     the Missouri intermediate appellate court s ruling reversing the Missouri trial court ruling, PM USA will be required to return approximately   $12 million   of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and   $7 million   of the interest it received (in each case subject to confirmation by the independent auditor), plus applicable interest, and would need to make corresponding reversals to amounts previously recorded.  In connection with its appeal of the Missouri state trial court s ruling, PM USA posted a bond in the amount of   $22 million  , which will remain in place despite the reversal of the Missouri state trial court s ruling by the intermediate appellate court until all appeals are exhausted.  Because the Maryland intermediate appellate court ruling post-dated PM USA s April 2014 MSA payment, that ruling did not reduce the credit that PM USA received against that payment.  If PM USA is not successful in obtaining further discretionary review of the Maryland intermediate appellate court ruling, or if PM USA is not successful in any further discretionary review that may be granted, it will be required to return approximately   $12 million   of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and   $7 million   of the interest it received (plus interest on those amounts) and would need to make corresponding reversals to amounts previously recorded.  In addition, the other litigation and disputes discussed above could further reduce PM USA s recovery on the 2003 NPM Adjustment or recovery of interest and potentially require PM USA to return amounts previously received and/or reverse amounts previously recorded.  No assurance can be given that the outcome of Missouri s appeal to the Supreme Court of Missouri of the Missouri intermediate appellate court decision, PM USA s request for discretionary review of the Maryland intermediate appellate decision (or the outcome of any further discretionary review that may be granted) or the other litigation and disputes discussed above will be resolved in a manner favorable to PM USA. 
  2004-2014 NPM Adjustments  .  Proceedings regarding state diligent enforcement claims for 2004-2014 have not yet been scheduled.  PM USA believes that the MSA requires these claims to be determined in a multi-state arbitration, although a number of non-signatory states have filed motions in their state courts contending that the claims are to be determined in separate arbitrations for individual states or that there is no arbitrable dispute for 2004.  In September 2015, a Missouri intermediate appellate court ruled that Missouri was entitled to a single-state arbitration to determine whether Missouri diligently enforced for 2004.  PM USA appealed this ruling, and the Supreme Court of Missouri granted review.  No assurance can be given that the outcome of such appeal will be favorable to PM USA.  On December 9, 2015, a Wisconsin trial court ruled that Wisconsin must arbitrate its claim of diligent enforcement for 2004.  No assurance can be given as to when proceedings for 2004-2014 will be scheduled or the precise form those proceedings will take. 
  In June 2015, PM USA entered into an agreement with 17 of the non-signatory states to form an arbitration panel to conduct an arbitration regarding the 2004 NPM Adjustment.  Pursuant to that agreement, in July 2015 PM USA and the   17   states each appointed its respective side s arbitrator for that arbitration panel.   

On December 29, 2015, the two appointed arbitrators selected the third arbitrator for a three-arbitrator panel required by the MSA.  Other PMs declined to participate in appointing the arbitrators, and instead filed motions in courts in each of the 17 states seeking to compel these states to participate in an arbitration of the 2004 NPM Adjustment dispute between the states and the PMs that would also include disputes solely between the OPMs regarding the allocation of NPM Adjustments as between them.  Several of the 17 states and PM USA have filed cross-motions objecting to the motions filed by the other PMs and seeking to confirm the arbitrators selected by them in July 2015 as properly selected pursuant to the MSA to resolve the 2004 NPM Adjustment dispute between the 17 states and the PMs.  This litigation currently is ongoing.  No assurance can be given as to how these motions and cross-motions ultimately will be resolved, when the full arbitration panel for 2004 will be empanelled, when that arbitration will commence or whether that arbitration will include the disputes between the OPMs regarding allocation of NPM Adjustments. 
  The independent auditor has calculated that PM USA s share of the maximum potential NPM Adjustments for these years is (exclusive of interest or earnings):    $388 million   for 2004,   $181 million   for 2005,   $154 million   for 2006,   $185 million   for 2007,   $250 million   for 2008,   $211 million   for 2009,   $218 million   for 2010,   $166 million   for 2011,   $211 million   for 2012,   $219 million   for 2013 and   $247 million   for 2014.  These maximum amounts will be reduced by a judgment reduction to reflect the settlement with the signatory states and the New York settlement.  The judgment reduction for the 2004-2014 NPM Adjustments has not yet been determined.  In addition, these maximum amounts may also be further reduced by other developments, including agreements that may be entered in the future, disputes that may arise or recalculation of the NPM Adjustment amounts by the independent auditor.  Further, the maximum amount for 2004 may also be reduced due to a dispute raised by another OPM regarding the allocation of the maximum potential 2004 NPM Adjustment among the OPMs.  Finally, PM USA s recovery of these amounts, even as reduced, is dependent upon subsequent determinations of non-signatory states  diligent enforcement claims.  The availability and amount of any NPM Adjustment for 2004-2014 from the non-signatory states will not be finally determined in the near term.  There is no assurance that the OPMs and other MSA-participating manufacturers will ultimately receive any adjustment from the non-signatory states as a result of these proceedings.  PM USA s receipt of amounts on account of the 2003 NPM Adjustment and interest from non-signatory states does not provide any assurance that PM USA will receive any NPM Adjustment amounts (or associated interest or earnings) for 2004 or any subsequent year.  PM USA may enter into settlement discussions regarding the NPM Adjustment disputes with any non-signatory state if PM USA believes it is in its best interests to do so. 
     Other Disputes Under the State Settlement Agreements:    The payment obligations of the tobacco product manufacturers that are parties to the State Settlement Agreements, as well as the  

88 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     allocations of any NPM Adjustments received by them pursuant to the MSA or the settlements of NPM Adjustment disputes with certain states described above, may be affected by R.J. Reynolds s acquisition of Lorillard and the related divestiture of certain cigarette brands by R.J. Reynolds to Imperial Tobacco.  PM USA intends carefully to review all calculations reflecting such payment obligations and allocations, and to determine whether to dispute any calculation that it believes improperly increases PM USA s payment obligations under the State Settlement Agreements or improperly decreases PM USA s allocation of NPM Adjustments received pursuant to the MSA or any such settlement in a manner inconsistent with the respective applicable agreements.  PM USA can neither predict the amount by which its payment obligations may be increased or its allocation of NPM Adjustments decreased, nor provide any assurance that it will be successful in any such dispute that it may raise. 
     Other MSA-Related Litigation:    Since the MSA s inception, NPMs and/or their distributors or customers have filed a number of challenges to the MSA and related legislation.  They have named as defendants the states and their officials, in an effort to enjoin enforcement of important parts of the MSA and related legislation, and/or participating manufacturers, in an effort to obtain damages.  To date, no such challenge has been successful, and the U.S. Courts of Appeals for the Second, Third, Fourth, Fifth, Sixth, Eighth, Ninth and Tenth Circuits have affirmed judgments in favor of defendants in   16   such cases.   
     Federal Government s Lawsuit:    In 1999, the United States government filed a lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia against various cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA, and others, including Altria Group, Inc., asserting claims under three federal statutes, namely the Medical Care Recovery Act ( MCRA ), the MSP provisions of the Social Security Act and the civil provisions of RICO.  Trial of the case ended in June 2005.  The lawsuit sought to recover an unspecified amount of health care costs for tobacco-related illnesses allegedly caused by defendants  fraudulent and tortious conduct and paid for by the government under various federal health care programs, including Medicare, military and veterans  health benefits programs, and the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.  The complaint alleged that such costs total more than   $20 billion   annually.  It also sought what it alleged to be equitable and declaratory relief, including disgorgement of profits that arose from defendants  allegedly tortious conduct, an injunction prohibiting certain actions by defendants, and a declaration that defendants are liable for the federal government s future costs of providing health care resulting from defendants  alleged past tortious and wrongful conduct.  The case ultimately proceeded only under the civil provisions of RICO. 
  The government alleged that disgorgement by defendants of approximately   $280 billion   is an appropriate remedy and the trial court agreed.  In February 2005, however, a panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit held that disgorgement is not a remedy available to the government under the civil provisions of RICO.  In October 2005, the United States  

Supreme Court denied the government s petition for   writ of certiorari  . 
  In August 2006, the federal trial court entered judgment in favor of the government.  The court held that certain defendants, including Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA, violated RICO and engaged in seven of the eight  sub-schemes  to defraud that the government had alleged.  Specifically, the court found that:   
             
    defendants falsely denied, distorted and minimized the significant adverse health consequences of smoking;  
                
    defendants hid from the public that cigarette smoking and nicotine are addictive;  
                
    defendants falsely denied that they control the level of nicotine delivered to create and sustain addiction;  
                
    defendants falsely marketed and promoted  low tar/light  cigarettes as less harmful than full-flavor cigarettes;  
                
    defendants falsely denied that they intentionally marketed to youth;  
                
    defendants publicly and falsely denied that ETS is hazardous to non-smokers; and  
                
    defendants suppressed scientific research.  
     The court did not impose monetary penalties on defendants, but ordered the following relief: (i) an injunction against  committing any act of racketeering  relating to the manufacturing, marketing, promotion, health consequences or sale of cigarettes in the United States; (ii) an injunction against participating directly or indirectly in the management or control of the Council for Tobacco Research, the Tobacco Institute, or the Center for Indoor Air Research, or any successor or affiliated entities of each; (iii) an injunction against  making, or causing to be made in any way, any material false, misleading, or deceptive statement or representation or engaging in any public relations or marketing endeavor that is disseminated to the United States public and that misrepresents or suppresses information concerning cigarettes  (iv) an injunction against conveying any express or implied health message or health descriptors on cigarette packaging or in cigarette advertising or promotional material, including  lights,   ultra lights  and  low tar,  which the court found could cause consumers to believe one cigarette brand is less hazardous than another brand; (v) the issuance of  corrective statements  in various media regarding the adverse health effects of smoking, the addictiveness of smoking and nicotine, the lack of any significant health benefit from smoking  low tar  or  light  cigarettes, defendants  manipulation of cigarette design to ensure optimum nicotine delivery and the adverse health effects of exposure to environmental tobacco smoke; (vi) the disclosure on defendants  public document websites and in the Minnesota document repository of all documents produced to the government in the lawsuit or produced in any future court or administrative action concerning smoking and health until 2021, with certain additional requirements as to documents withheld from production under a claim of privilege or  

89 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     confidentiality; (vii) the disclosure of disaggregated marketing data to the government in the same form and on the same schedule as defendants now follow in disclosing such data to the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) for a period of 10 years; (viii) certain restrictions on the sale or transfer by defendants of any cigarette brands, brand names, formulas or cigarette businesses within the United States; and (ix) payment of the government s costs in bringing the action. 
  Defendants appealed and, in May 2009, a three judge panel of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit issued a   per curiam   decision largely affirming the trial court s judgment against defendants and in favor of the government. Although the panel largely affirmed the remedial order that was issued by the trial court, it vacated the following aspects of the order:  
             
    its application to defendants  subsidiaries;  
                
    the prohibition on the use of express or implied health messages or health descriptors, but only to the extent of extraterritorial application;  
                
    its point-of-sale display provisions; and  
                
    its application to Brown   Williamson Holdings.  
     The Court of Appeals panel remanded the case for the trial court to reconsider these four aspects of the injunction and to reformulate its remedial order accordingly.  Furthermore, the Court of Appeals panel rejected all of the government s and intervenors  cross-appeal arguments and refused to broaden the remedial order entered by the trial court.  The Court of Appeals panel also left undisturbed its prior holding that the government cannot obtain disgorgement as a permissible remedy under RICO. 
  In July 2009, defendants filed petitions for a rehearing before the panel and for a rehearing by the entire Court of Appeals.  Defendants also filed a motion to vacate portions of the trial court s judgment on the grounds of mootness because of the passage of the Family Smoking Prevention and Tobacco Control Act ( FSPTCA ), granting the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ) broad authority over the regulation of tobacco products.  In September 2009, the Court of Appeals entered three   per curiam   rulings.  Two of them denied defendants  petitions for panel rehearing or for rehearing   en banc  .      In the third   per curiam   decision, the Court of Appeals denied defendants  suggestion of mootness and motion for partial   vacatur  .  In February 2010, PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. filed their   certiorari   petitions with the United States Supreme Court.  In addition, the federal government and the intervenors filed their own   certiorari   petitions, asking the court to reverse an earlier Court of Appeals decision and hold that civil RICO allows the trial court to order disgorgement as well as other equitable relief, such as smoking cessation remedies, designed to redress continuing consequences of prior RICO violations.  In June 2010, the United States Supreme Court denied all of the parties  petitions.  In July 2010, the Court of Appeals issued its mandate lifting the stay of the trial court s judgment and remanding the case to the trial court.  As a result of the mandate, except for those matters remanded to the trial court for further proceedings,  

defendants are now subject to the injunction discussed above and the other elements of the trial court s judgment. 
  In February 2011, the government submitted its proposed corrective statements and the trial court referred issues relating to a document repository to a special master.  Defendants filed a response to the government s proposed corrective statements and filed a motion to vacate the trial court s injunction in light of the FSPTCA, which motion was denied in June 2011.  Defendants appealed the trial court s ruling to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  In July 2012, the Court of Appeals affirmed the district court s denial of defendants  motion to vacate the district court s injunction. 
  Remaining issues pending include:  (i) the content of the court-ordered corrective communications and (ii) the requirements related to point-of-sale signage.  In November 2012, the district court issued its order specifying the content of the corrective communications described above.  The district court s order required the parties to engage in negotiations with the special master regarding implementation of the corrective communications remedy for television, newspapers, cigarette pack onserts and websites.  In January 2013, defendants filed a notice of appeal from the order on the content and vehicles of the corrective communications and a motion to hold the appeal in abeyance pending completion of the negotiations, which the U.S. Court of Appeals granted in February 2013. In January 2014, the parties submitted a motion for entry of a consent order in the district court, setting forth their agreement on the implementation details of the corrective communications remedy.  The agreement provides that the  trigger date  for implementation is after the appeal on the content of the communications has been exhausted.  Also in January 2014, the district court convened a hearing and ordered further briefing.  A number of   amici   who sought modification or rejection of the agreement for a variety of reasons were given leave to appear.  In April 2014, the parties filed an amended proposed consent order and accompanying submission in the district court seeking entry of a revised agreement on the implementation details of the corrective communications remedy.  In June 2014, the district court approved the April 2014 proposed consent order.  Also in June 2014, defendants filed a notice of appeal of the consent order solely for the purpose of perfecting the U.S. Court of Appeals  jurisdiction over the pending appeal relating to the content and vehicles of the corrective communications and, in July 2014, defendants moved to consolidate this appeal with the appeal filed in January 2013.  The U.S. Court of Appeals granted the motion to consolidate in August 2014.   
  In May 2015, the U.S. Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in part, concluding that certain portions of the statements exceeded the district court s jurisdiction under RICO, but upheld other portions challenged by defendants.  The Court of Appeals remanded the case to the trial court for further proceedings.  In July 2015, the government filed a petition for panel rehearing, which the U.S. Court of Appeals denied on August 2015.  In October 2015, the district court ordered further briefing on the content of the corrective communications reversed by the U.S.  

90 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     Court of Appeals and any implementation changes the parties propose.   
  In the second quarter of 2014, Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA recorded provisions on each of their respective balance sheets totaling   $31 million   for the estimated costs of implementing the corrective communications remedy.  This estimate is subject to change due to several factors, including the outcome of further proceedings, though Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA do not expect any change in this estimate to be material. 
  The consent order approved by the district court in June 2014 did not address the requirements related to point-of-sale signage.  In May 2014, the district court ordered further briefing by the parties on the issue of corrective statements on point-of-sale signage, which was completed in June 2014. 
  In   December 2011  , the parties to the lawsuit entered into an agreement as to the issues concerning the document repository.  Pursuant to this agreement, PM USA agreed to deposit an amount of approximately   $3.1 million   into the district court in installments over a   five  -year period. 
   Lights/Ultra Lights  Cases 
     Overview:    Plaintiffs in certain pending matters seek certification of their cases as class actions and allege, among other things, that the uses of the terms  Lights  and/or  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law or statutory fraud, unjust enrichment or breach of warranty, and seek injunctive and equitable relief, including restitution and, in certain cases, punitive damages.  These class actions have been brought against PM USA and, in certain instances, Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries, on behalf of individuals who purchased and consumed various brands of cigarettes, including   Marlboro   Lights,   Marlboro   Ultra Lights,   Virginia Slims   Lights and Superslims,   Merit   Lights and   Cambridge   Lights. Defenses raised in these cases include lack of misrepresentation, lack of causation, injury and damages, the statute of limitations, non-liability under state statutory provisions exempting conduct that complies with federal regulatory directives, and the First Amendment.  As of January 26, 2016, a total of   11   such cases are pending in various U.S. state courts. 
     The   Good   Case:    In May 2006, a federal trial court in Maine granted PM USA s motion for summary judgment in   Good  , a purported  Lights  class action, on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims are preempted by the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act ( FCLAA ) and dismissed the case.  In December 2008, the United States Supreme Court ruled that plaintiffs  claims are not barred by federal preemption.  Although the Court rejected the argument that the FTC s actions were so extensive with respect to the descriptors that the state law claims were barred as a matter of federal law, the Court s decision was limited: it did not address the ultimate merits of plaintiffs  claim, the viability of the action as a class action or other state law issues. The case was returned to the federal court in Maine and consolidated with other federal cases in the multidistrict litigation proceeding discussed below.  In June 2011, the plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the case without prejudice after the district  

court denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification, concluding the litigation. 
     Federal Multidistrict Proceeding and Subsequent Developments:    Since the December 2008 United States Supreme Court decision in   Good  , and through January 26, 2016,   26   purported  Lights  class actions were served upon PM USA and, in certain cases, Altria Group, Inc.  These cases were filed in   15   states, the U.S. Virgin Islands and the District of Columbia.  All of these cases either were filed in federal court or were removed to federal court by PM USA and were transferred and consolidated by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation ( JPMDL ) before the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine for pretrial proceedings ( MDL proceeding ). 
  In November 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding denied plaintiffs  motion for class certification in   four   cases, covering the jurisdictions of California, the District of Columbia, Illinois and Maine.  These jurisdictions were selected by the parties as sample cases, with   two   selected by plaintiffs and   two   selected by defendants.  Plaintiffs sought appellate review of this decision but, in February 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit denied plaintiffs  petition for leave to appeal.  Later that year, plaintiffs in   13   cases voluntarily dismissed their cases without prejudice.  In April 2012, the JPMDL remanded the remaining   four   cases (  Phillips  ,   Tang  ,   Wyatt   and   Cabbat  ) back to the federal district courts in which the suits originated.  These cases were ultimately resolved in a manner favorable to PM USA. 
      Lights  Cases Dismissed, Not Certified or Ordered De-Certified:    As of January 26, 2016, in addition to the federal district court in the MDL proceeding,   19   courts in   20    Lights  cases have refused to certify class actions, dismissed class action allegations, reversed prior class certification decisions or have entered judgment in favor of PM USA. 
  Trial courts in Arizona, Hawaii, Illinois, Kansas, New Jersey, New Mexico, Ohio, Oregon, Tennessee, Washington and Wisconsin have refused to grant class certification or have dismissed plaintiffs  class action allegations.  Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed a case in Michigan after a trial court dismissed the claims plaintiffs asserted under the Michigan Unfair Trade and Consumer Protection Act.  Several appellate courts have issued rulings that either affirmed rulings in favor of Altria Group, Inc. and/or PM USA or reversed rulings entered in favor of plaintiffs.   
  In Florida, an intermediate appellate court overturned an order by a trial court that granted class certification in   Hines.    The Florida Supreme Court denied review in January 2008.  The Supreme Court of Illinois overturned a judgment that awarded damages to a certified class in the   Price   case, although plaintiffs are seeking reinstatement of the judgment.  See   The Price Case   below for further discussion.  In Louisiana, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed a purported  Lights  class action (  Sullivan  ) on the grounds that plaintiffs  claims were preempted by the FCLAA.  In New York, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit overturned a trial court decision in   Schwab   that granted plaintiffs  motion for certification of a nationwide class of all U.S. residents that purchased cigarettes in  

91 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     the United States that were labeled  Light  or  Lights.  In July 2010, plaintiffs in   Schwab   voluntarily dismissed the case with prejudice.  In Ohio, the Ohio Supreme Court overturned class certifications in the   Marrone   and   Phillips   cases.  Plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed both cases without prejudice in August 2009, but refiled in federal court as the   Phillips   case discussed above.  The Supreme Court of Washington denied a motion for interlocutory review filed by the plaintiffs in the   Davies   case that sought review of an order by the trial court that refused to certify a class.  Plaintiffs subsequently voluntarily dismissed the   Davies   case with prejudice.  In August 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit affirmed the Illinois federal district court s dismissal of  Lights  claims brought against PM USA in the   Cleary   case.  In   Curtis  , a certified class action, in May 2012, the Minnesota Supreme Court affirmed the trial court s entry of summary judgment in favor of PM USA, concluding this litigation. 
  In   Lawrence  , in August 2012, the New Hampshire Supreme Court reversed the trial court s order to certify a class and subsequently denied plaintiffs  rehearing petition.  In October 2012, the case was dismissed after plaintiffs filed a motion to dismiss the case with prejudice, concluding this litigation.   
     State Trial Court Class Certifications:    State trial courts have certified classes against PM USA in several jurisdictions.  Over time, several such cases have been dismissed by the courts at the summary judgment stage, but others remain pending.  Significant developments in these pending cases include:  
  Aspinall  : In August 2004, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the class certification order.  In August 2006, the trial court denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment and granted plaintiffs  cross-motion for summary judgment on the defenses of federal preemption and a state law exemption to Massachusetts  consumer protection statute.  On motion of the parties, the trial court subsequently reported its decision to deny summary judgment to the appeals court for review and stayed further proceedings pending completion of the appellate review.  In March 2009, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court affirmed the order denying summary judgment to PM USA and granting the plaintiffs  cross-motion.  In January 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to liability claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   described above).  In March 2012, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion. In February 2013, the trial court, upon agreement of the parties, dismissed without prejudice plaintiffs  claims against Altria Group, Inc.  PM USA is now the sole defendant in the case.  In September 2013, the case was transferred to the Business Litigation Session of the Massachusetts Superior Court.  Also in September 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion for partial summary judgment on the scope of remedies available in the case, which the Massachusetts Superior Court denied in February 2014, concluding that plaintiffs cannot obtain disgorgement of profits as an equitable remedy and that their recovery is limited to actual damages or   $25   per class member if they cannot prove actual damages greater than   $25  .   

Plaintiffs filed a motion asking the trial court to report its February 2014 ruling to the Massachusetts Appeals Court for review, which the trial court denied.  In March 2014, plaintiffs petitioned the Massachusetts Appeals Court for review of the ruling, which the appellate court denied.  In August 2015, the trial court denied various pre-trial motions filed by PM USA, including a motion for summary judgment on the ground that plaintiffs have no proof of injury.  Trial began in October 2015 and concluded in November 2015.  On December 18, 2015, PM USA filed a motion to decertify the class.  
  Brown  :  In June 1997, plaintiffs filed suit in California state court alleging that domestic cigarette manufacturers, including PM USA and others, violated California law regarding unfair, unlawful and fraudulent business practices.  In May 2009, the California Supreme Court reversed an earlier trial court decision that decertified the class and remanded the case to the trial court.  At that time, the class consisted of individuals who, at the time they were residents of California, (i) smoked in California one or more cigarettes manufactured by PM USA that were labeled and/or advertised with the terms or phrases  light,   medium,   mild,   low tar,  and/or  lowered tar and nicotine,  but not including any cigarettes labeled or advertised with the terms or phrases  ultra light  or  ultra low tar,  and (ii) who were exposed to defendant s marketing and advertising activities in California.  Plaintiffs are seeking restitution of a portion of the costs of  light  cigarettes purchased during the class period and injunctive relief ordering corrective communications.  In September 2012, at the plaintiffs  request, the trial court dismissed all defendants except PM USA from the lawsuit.  Trial began in April 2013.  In May 2013 the plaintiffs redefined the class to include California residents who smoked in California one or more of defendant s   Marlboro   Lights cigarettes between January 1, 1998 and April 23, 2001, and who were exposed to defendant s marketing and advertising activities in California.  In June 2013, PM USA filed a motion to decertify the class.  Trial concluded in July 2013.  In September 2013, the court issued a final Statement of Decision, in which the court found that PM USA violated California law, but that plaintiffs had not established a basis for relief.  On this basis, the court granted judgment for PM USA.   The court also denied PM USA s motion to decertify the class.  In October 2013, the court entered final judgment in favor of PM USA.  In November 2013, plaintiffs moved for a new trial, which the court denied.  In December 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal and PM USA filed a conditional cross-appeal.  In February 2014, the trial court awarded PM USA   $764,553   in costs and plaintiffs appealed the costs award.  Oral argument occurred in September 2015 and subsequently the Court of Appeal affirmed the trial court judgment and dismissed PM USA s conditional cross-appeal as moot.  The court also affirmed the cost award in favor of PM USA.  On November 6, 2015, plaintiffs filed a petition for review with the California Supreme Court, which the court denied on December 9, 2015.  
  Larsen  :  In August 2005, a Missouri Court of Appeals affirmed the class certification order.  In December 2009, the trial court denied plaintiffs  motion for reconsideration of the period during  

92 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     which potential class members can qualify to become part of the class.  The class period remains 1995-2003.  In June 2010, PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment regarding plaintiffs  request for punitive damages was denied.  In April 2010, plaintiffs moved for partial summary judgment as to an element of liability in the case, claiming collateral estoppel from the findings in the case brought by the Department of Justice (see   Health Care Cost Recovery Litigation - Federal Government s Lawsuit   described above).  The plaintiffs  motion was denied in December 2010.  In June 2011, PM USA filed various summary judgment motions challenging the plaintiffs  claims.  In August 2011, the trial court granted PM USA s motion for partial summary judgment, ruling that plaintiffs could not present a damages claim based on allegations that   Marlboro   Lights are more dangerous than   Marlboro   Reds.  The trial court denied PM USA s remaining summary judgment motions.  Trial in the case began in September 2011 and, in October 2011, the court declared a mistrial after the jury failed to reach a verdict.  In January 2014, the trial court reversed its prior ruling granting partial summary judgment against plaintiffs   more dangerous  claim and allowed plaintiffs to pursue that claim.  In October 2014, PM USA filed motions to decertify the class and for partial summary judgment on plaintiffs   more dangerous  claim, which the court denied in June 2015.  Re-trial is scheduled to begin on March 2, 2016. 
  Miner  :      In June 2007, the United States Supreme Court reversed the lower court rulings in   Miner   (formerly known as   Watson  ) that denied plaintiffs  motion to have the case heard in a state, as opposed to federal, trial court.  The Supreme Court rejected defendants  contention that the case must be tried in federal court under the  federal officer  statute.  Following remand, the case was removed again to federal court in Arkansas and transferred to the MDL proceeding discussed above.  In November 2010, the district court in the MDL proceeding remanded the case to Arkansas state court.  In December 2011, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed their claims against Altria Group, Inc. without prejudice.  In March 2013, plaintiffs filed a class certification motion.  In November 2013, the trial court granted class certification.  The certified class includes those individuals who, from November 1, 1971 through June 22, 2010, purchased   Marlbor  o Lights and   Marlboro   Ultra Lights for personal consumption in Arkansas.  PM USA filed a notice of appeal of the class certification ruling to the Arkansas Supreme Court in December 2013.  In February 2015, the Arkansas Supreme Court affirmed the trial court s class certification order.  In May 2015, PM USA filed a motion for partial summary judgment seeking to foreclose any recovery for cigarette purchases prior to 1999, when a private right of action was added to the consumer protection statute under which plaintiffs are suing.  The trial court denied the motion in July 2015.  Trial is currently scheduled to begin on August 2, 2016. 
     Other Developments:    In Oregon (  Pearson  ), a state court denied plaintiffs  motion for interlocutory review of the trial court s refusal to certify a class.  In February 2007, PM USA filed a motion for summary judgment based on federal preemption and the Oregon statutory exemption.  In September 2007, the district  

court granted PM USA s motion based on express preemption under the FCLAA, and plaintiffs appealed this dismissal and the class certification denial to the Oregon Court of Appeals.  In June 2013, the Oregon Court of Appeals reversed the trial court s denial of class certification and remanded to the trial court for further consideration of class certification. In July 2013, PM USA filed a petition for reconsideration with the Oregon Court of Appeals, which was denied in August 2013.  PM USA filed its petition for review to the Oregon Supreme Court in October 2013, which the court accepted in January 2014.  In October 2015, the Oregon Supreme Court affirmed the trial court s order denying class certification, thereby reversing the decision of the Oregon Court of Appeals.  On November 5, 2015, plaintiffs filed a motion for reconsideration with the Oregon Supreme Court, which the court denied on December 10, 2015.  On December 28, 2015, the Oregon Supreme Court entered its judgment denying class certification and remanding the claims of the individual plaintiffs for further proceedings. 
  In December 2009, the state trial court in   Carroll   (formerly known as   Holmes  ) (pending in Delaware) denied PM USA s motion for summary judgment based on an exemption provision in the Delaware Consumer Fraud Act.  In January 2011, the trial court allowed the plaintiffs to file an amended complaint substituting class representatives and naming Altria Group, Inc. and PMI as additional defendants.  In February 2013, the trial court approved the parties  stipulation to the dismissal without prejudice of Altria Group, Inc. and PMI, leaving PM USA as the sole defendant in the case.  In March 2015, plaintiffs moved for class certification and, in July 2015, PM USA filed a summary judgment motion seeking to dismiss plaintiffs  claims in their entirety on preemption grounds. 
     The   Price   Case:    Trial in   Price   commenced in state court in Illinois in January 2003 and, in   March 2003  , the judge found in favor of the plaintiff class and awarded   $7.1 billion   in compensatory damages and   $3.0 billion   in punitive damages against PM USA. In December 2005, the Illinois Supreme Court reversed the trial court s judgment in favor of the plaintiffs.  In November 2006, the United States Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  petition for   writ of certiorari   and, in   December 2006  , the Circuit Court of Madison County enforced the Illinois Supreme Court s mandate and dismissed the case with prejudice. 
  In December 2008, plaintiffs filed with the trial court a petition for relief from the final judgment that was entered in favor of PM USA.  Specifically, plaintiffs sought to vacate the judgment entered by the trial court on remand from the 2005 Illinois Supreme Court decision overturning the verdict on the ground that the United States Supreme Court s December 2008 decision in   Good   demonstrated that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision was  inaccurate.  PM USA filed a motion to dismiss plaintiffs  petition and, in February 2009, the trial court granted PM USA s motion on the basis that the petition was not timely filed.  In March 2009, the   Price   plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial District of the Appellate Court of Illinois.  In February 2011, the intermediate appellate court ruled that the petition was timely filed and reversed the trial court s dismissal of  

93 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     the plaintiffs  petition and, in September 2011, the Illinois Supreme Court declined PM USA s petition for review.  As a result, the case was returned to the trial court for proceedings on whether the court should grant the plaintiffs  petition to reopen the prior judgment.  In February 2012, plaintiffs filed an amended petition, which PM USA opposed.  Subsequently, in responding to PM USA s opposition to the amended petition, plaintiffs asked the trial court to reinstate the original judgment.  The trial court denied plaintiffs  petition in December 2012.  In January 2013, plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal with the Fifth Judicial District.  In January 2013, PM USA filed a motion asking the Illinois Supreme Court to immediately exercise its jurisdiction over the appeal.  In February 2013, the Illinois Supreme Court denied PM USA s motion.  In April 2014, the Fifth Judicial District reversed and ordered reinstatement of the original   $10.1 billion   trial court judgment against PM USA.  In May 2014, PM USA filed in the Illinois Supreme Court a petition for a supervisory order and a petition for leave to appeal.  The filing of the petition for leave to appeal automatically stayed the Fifth District s mandate pending disposition by the Illinois Supreme Court.  Also in May 2014, plaintiffs filed a motion seeking recusal of Justice Karmeier, one of the Illinois Supreme Court justices, which PM USA opposed.  In September 2014, the Illinois Supreme Court granted PM USA s motion for leave to appeal and took no action on PM USA s motion for a supervisory order.  Justice Karmeier denied plaintiffs  motion seeking his recusal.  In February 2015, plaintiffs filed a new motion seeking recusal or disqualification of Justice Karmeier.  In March 2015, the Illinois Supreme Court denied plaintiffs  request that it order the disqualification of Justice Karmeier and referred the recusal request to Justice Karmeier to decide.  On November 4, 2015, the Illinois Supreme Court vacated the Fifth Judicial District s decision, finding that the plaintiffs  petition was improper, and dismissed the cause of action without prejudice to plaintiffs to file a motion to recall the mandate in the Illinois Supreme Court.  On the same day, Justice Karmeier denied the recusal motion.  On November 18, 2015, the plaintiffs filed motions in the Illinois Supreme Court seeking to recall the 2005 mandate issued in PM USA s favor and for recusal of Justice Karmeier, both of which the court denied on January 11, 2016.  On January 22, 2016, plaintiffs filed a petition for   writ of certiorari   with the United States Supreme Court on the question of whether Justice Karmeier should have recused himself. 
       In June 2009, the plaintiff in an individual smoker lawsuit (  Kelly  ) brought on behalf of an alleged smoker of  Lights  cigarettes in Madison County, Illinois state court filed a motion seeking a declaration that his claims under the Illinois Consumer Fraud Act are not (i) barred by the exemption in that statute based on his assertion that the Illinois Supreme Court s decision in   Price   is no longer good law in light of the decisions by the United States Supreme Court in   Good   and   Watson  , and (ii) preempted in light of the United States Supreme Court s decision in   Good.    In September 2009, the court granted plaintiff s motion as to federal preemption, but denied it with respect to the state statutory exemption. 

Certain Other Tobacco-Related Litigation 
     Ignition Propensity Cases:    PM USA and Altria Group, Inc. are currently facing litigation alleging that a fire caused by cigarettes led to individuals  deaths.  In a Kentucky case (  Walker  ), the federal district court denied plaintiffs  motion to remand the case to state court and dismissed plaintiffs  claims in February 2009.  Plaintiffs subsequently filed a notice of appeal.  In October 2011, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit reversed the portion of the district court decision that denied remand of the case to Kentucky state court and remanded the case to Kentucky state court.  The Sixth Circuit did not address the merits of the district court s dismissal order.  Defendants  petition for rehearing with the Sixth Circuit was denied in December 2011.  Defendants filed a renewed motion to dismiss in state court in March 2013.  Based on new evidence, in June 2013, defendants removed the case for a second time to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Kentucky and re-filed their motion to dismiss in June 2013.  In July 2013, plaintiffs filed a motion to remand the case to Kentucky state court, which was granted in March 2014. 
     False Claims Act Case:    PM USA is a defendant in a   qui tam   action filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia (  United States ex rel. Anthony Oliver  ) alleging violation of the False Claims Act in connection with sales of cigarettes to the U.S. military.  The relator contends that PM USA violated  most favored customer  provisions in government contracts and regulations by selling cigarettes to non-military customers in overseas markets at more favorable prices than it sold to the U.S. military exchange services for resale on overseas military bases in those same markets.  The relator has dropped Altria Group, Inc. as a defendant and has dropped claims related to post-MSA price increases on cigarettes sold to the U.S. military.  In July 2012, PM USA filed a motion to dismiss, which was granted on jurisdictional grounds in June 2013, and the case was dismissed with prejudice.  In July 2013, the relator appealed the dismissal to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  In August 2014, the Court of Appeals reversed the jurisdictional issue and remanded the case to the district court for further proceedings, including consideration of PM USA s alternative grounds for dismissal.  In October 2014, PM USA filed a second motion to dismiss in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia for lack of subject matter jurisdiction based on issues left unresolved by the opinion of the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  In April 2015, the district court granted PM USA s second motion to dismiss for lack of subject matter jurisdiction and again dismissed the case with prejudice.  The relator appealed the latest dismissal to the Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in May 2015.  Oral argument occurred on January 15, 2016 at the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit. 
     Argentine Grower Cases:    PM USA is a defendant in   six   cases (  Hupan  ,   Chalanuk  ,   Rodriguez Da Silva  ,   Aranda  ,   Taborda   and   Biglia  ) filed in Delaware state court against multiple defendants by the parents of Argentine children born with alleged birth defects.  Plaintiffs in these cases allege that they grew  

94 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     tobacco in Argentina under contract with Tabacos Norte S.A., an alleged subsidiary of PMI, and that they and their infant children were exposed directly and   in utero   to hazardous herbicides and pesticides used in the production and cultivation of tobacco.  Plaintiffs seek compensatory and punitive damages against all defendants.  In December 2012, Altria Group, Inc. and certain other defendants were dismissed from the   Hupan  ,   Chalanuk   and   Rodriguez Da Silva   cases.  Altria Group, Inc. and certain other defendants were dismissed from   Aranda  ,   Taborda   and   Biglia   in May 2013, October 2013 and February 2014, respectively.  The   three   remaining defendants in the six cases are PM USA, Philip Morris Global Brands Inc. (a subsidiary of PMI) and Monsanto Company.  Following discussions regarding indemnification for these cases pursuant to the Distribution Agreement between PMI and Altria Group, Inc.,     PMI and PM USA have agreed to resolve conflicting indemnity demands after final judgments are entered.  See   Guarantees and Other Similar Matters   below for a discussion of the Distribution Agreement.  In April 2014, all three defendants in the   Hupan   case filed motions to dismiss for failure to state a claim, and PM USA and Philip Morris Global Brands filed separate motions to dismiss based on the doctrine of   forum non conveniens  .  All proceedings in the other   five   cases were stayed pending the court s resolution of the motions to dismiss filed in   Hupan  .  On December 1, 2015, the trial court granted PM USA s motion to dismiss on   forum non conveniens   grounds.  Plaintiff filed a motion for clarification or re-argument on December 7, 2015.  
  UST Litigation 
     Claims related to smokeless tobacco products generally fall within the following categories:  
  First, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries have been named in certain actions in West Virginia (See   In re: Tobacco Litigation   above) brought by or on behalf of individual plaintiffs against cigarette manufacturers, smokeless tobacco manufacturers and other organizations seeking damages and other relief in connection with injuries allegedly sustained as a result of tobacco usage, including smokeless tobacco products.  Included among the plaintiffs are   five   individuals alleging use of USSTC s smokeless tobacco products and alleging the types of injuries claimed to be associated with the use of smokeless tobacco products. USSTC, along with other non-cigarette manufacturers, has remained severed from such proceedings since December 2001. 
  Second, UST and/or its tobacco subsidiaries has been named in a number of other individual tobacco and health suits over time.  Plaintiffs  allegations of liability in these cases are based on various theories of recovery, such as negligence, strict liability, fraud, misrepresentation, design defect, failure to warn, breach of implied warranty, addiction and breach of consumer protection statutes.  Plaintiffs seek various forms of relief, including compensatory and punitive damages, and certain equitable relief, including but not limited to disgorgement.  Defenses raised in these cases include lack of causation, assumption of the risk, comparative fault and/or contributory negligence, and statutes of  

limitations.  USSTC is currently named in   one   such action in Florida (  Vassallo  ).  There is currently no trial date set in this case. 
  Environmental Regulation 
  Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) are subject to various federal, state and local laws and regulations concerning the discharge of materials into the environment, or otherwise related to environmental protection, including, in the United States: the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act and the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (commonly known as  Superfund ), which can impose joint and several liability on each responsible party.  Subsidiaries (and former subsidiaries) of Altria Group, Inc. are involved in several matters subjecting them to potential costs of remediation and natural resource damages under Superfund or other laws and regulations.  Altria Group, Inc. s subsidiaries expect to continue to make capital and other expenditures in connection with environmental laws and regulations. 
  Altria Group, Inc. provides for expenses associated with environmental remediation obligations on an undiscounted basis when such amounts are probable and can be reasonably estimated.  Such accruals are adjusted as new information develops or circumstances change.  Other than those amounts, it is not possible to reasonably estimate the cost of any environmental remediation and compliance efforts that subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. may undertake in the future.  In the opinion of management, however, compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including the payment of any remediation costs or damages and the making of related expenditures, has not had, and is not expected to have, a material adverse effect on Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated results of operations, capital expenditures, financial position or cash flows. 
  Guarantees and Other Similar Matters 
  In the ordinary course of business, certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. have agreed to indemnify a limited number of third parties in the event of future litigation.  At   December 31, 2015  , Altria Group, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries (i) had   $62 million   of unused letters of credit obtained in the ordinary course of business; (ii) were contingently liable for   $21 million   of guarantees, consisting primarily of surety bonds, related to their own performance; and (iii) had a redeemable noncontrolling interest of   $37 million   recorded on its consolidated balance sheet.  In addition, from time to time, subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. issue lines of credit to affiliated entities.  These items have not had, and are not expected to have, a significant impact on Altria Group, Inc. s liquidity. 
  Under the terms of a distribution agreement between Altria Group, Inc. and PMI (the  Distribution Agreement ), entered into as a result of Altria Group, Inc. s 2008 spin-off of its former subsidiary PMI, liabilities concerning tobacco products will be allocated based in substantial part on the manufacturer.  PMI will indemnify Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA for liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PMI or contract manufactured for PMI by PM USA, and PM USA will indemnify PMI for  

95 

     Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

     liabilities related to tobacco products manufactured by PM USA, excluding tobacco products contract manufactured for PMI.  Altria Group, Inc. does not have a related liability recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at   December 31, 2015   as the fair value of this indemnification is insignificant. 
  As more fully discussed in   Note 19  .   Condensed Consolidating Financial Information  , PM USA has issued guarantees relating to Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under the Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program. 
  Redeemable Noncontrolling Interest 
  In September 2007, Ste. Michelle completed the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars through one of its consolidated subsidiaries, Michelle-Antinori, LLC ( Michelle-Antinori ), in which Ste. Michelle holds an   85%   ownership interest with a   15%   noncontrolling interest held by Antinori California ( Antinori ).  In connection with the acquisition of Stag s Leap Wine Cellars, Ste. Michelle entered into a put arrangement with Antinori.  The put arrangement, as later amended, provides Antinori with the right to require Ste. Michelle to purchase its 15% ownership interest in Michelle-Antinori at a price equal to Antinori s initial investment of   $27 million  .  The put arrangement became exercisable in September 2010 and has no expiration date.  As of December 31, 2015, the redemption value of the put arrangement did not exceed the noncontrolling interest balance.  Therefore, no adjustment to the value of the redeemable noncontrolling interest was recognized on the consolidated balance sheet for the put arrangement. 
  The noncontrolling interest put arrangement is accounted for as mandatorily redeemable securities because redemption is outside of the control of Ste. Michelle.  As such, the redeemable noncontrolling interest is reported in the mezzanine equity section on the consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2015 and 2014. 
    Note 19  .  Condensed Consolidating Financial Information 
  PM USA, which is a 100% owned subsidiary of Altria Group, Inc., has guaranteed Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under its outstanding debt securities, borrowings under its Credit Agreement and amounts outstanding under its commercial paper program (the  Guarantees ).  Pursuant to the Guarantees, PM USA fully and unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor, the payment and performance of Altria Group, Inc. s obligations under the guaranteed debt instruments (the  Obligations ), subject to release under certain customary circumstances as noted below. 
  The Guarantees provide that PM USA guarantees the punctual payment when due, whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise, of the Obligations.  The liability of PM USA under the Guarantees is absolute and unconditional irrespective of: any lack of validity, enforceability or genuineness of any provision of any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any change in the time, manner or place of payment of, or in any other term of, all or any of the Obligations, or any other  

amendment or waiver of or any consent to departure from any agreement or instrument relating thereto; any exchange, release or non-perfection of any collateral, or any release or amendment or waiver of or consent to departure from any other guarantee, for all or any of the Obligations; or any other circumstance that might otherwise constitute a defense available to, or a discharge of, Altria Group, Inc. or PM USA. 
  The obligations of PM USA under the Guarantees are limited to the maximum amount as will not result in PM USA s obligations under the Guarantees constituting a fraudulent transfer or conveyance, after giving effect to such maximum amount and all other contingent and fixed liabilities of PM USA that are relevant under Bankruptcy Law, the Uniform Fraudulent Conveyance Act, the Uniform Fraudulent Transfer Act or any similar federal or state law to the extent applicable to the Guarantees.  For this purpose,  Bankruptcy Law  means Title 11, U.S. Code, or any similar federal or state law for the relief of debtors. 
  PM USA will be unconditionally released and discharged from the Obligations upon the earliest to occur of: 
     the date, if any, on which PM USA consolidates with or merges into Altria Group, Inc. or any successor; 
     the date, if any, on which Altria Group, Inc. or any successor consolidates with or merges into PM USA; 
     the payment in full of the Obligations pertaining to such Guarantees; and 
     the rating of Altria Group, Inc. s long-term senior unsecured debt by Standard   Poor s of A or higher. 
  At   December 31, 2015  , the respective principal 100% owned subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA were not limited by long-term debt or other agreements in their ability to pay cash dividends or make other distributions with respect to their equity interests. 
  The following sets forth the condensed consolidating balance sheets as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , condensed consolidating statements of earnings and comprehensive earnings for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013  , and condensed consolidating statements of cash flows for the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014   and   2013   for Altria Group, Inc., PM USA and, collectively, Altria Group, Inc. s other subsidiaries that are not guarantors of Altria Group, Inc. s debt instruments (the  Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries ).  The financial information is based on Altria Group, Inc. s understanding of the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) interpretation and application of Rule 3-10 of SEC Regulation S-X. 
  The financial information may not necessarily be indicative of results of operations or financial position had PM USA and the Non-Guarantor Subsidiaries operated as independent entities.  Altria Group, Inc. and PM USA account for investments in their subsidiaries under the equity method of accounting. 

96 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________   

97 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________ 

98 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets  
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________ 

99 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheets (Continued) 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  ____________________________ 

100 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

101 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________   

102 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Earnings 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

103 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

104 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

105 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

Condensed Consolidating Statements of Cash Flows 
  (in millions of dollars) 
  _____________________________ 

106 

       Table of Contents  
  Altria Group, Inc. and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  _________________________ 

   Note 20  .  Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 

During   2015   and   2014  , the following pre-tax charges or (gains) were included in net earnings attributable to Altria Group, Inc.:   

  As discussed in   Note 14  .   Income Taxes  , Altria Group, Inc. has recognized income tax benefits and charges in the consolidated statements of earnings during 2015 and 2014 as a result of various tax events. 
      Note 21  .  Subsequent Event 
  On January 27, 2016, the Board of Directors approved a productivity initiative designed to maintain Altria Group, Inc. s operating companies  leadership and cost competitiveness.  The initiative, which will reduce spending on certain selling, general and administrative infrastructure and implement a leaner organizational structure, is expected to deliver approximately   $300 million   in annualized productivity savings by the end of  

2017.  Altria Group, Inc. estimates total pre-tax restructuring charges in connection with the initiative of approximately   $140 million  , or   $0.05   per share, substantially all of which is expected to be recorded in the first quarter of 2016.  The estimated charges, substantially all of which will result in cash expenditures, relate primarily to employee separation costs of approximately   $120 million   and other associated costs of approximately   $20 million  .  These estimated charges do not reflect the non-cash impact that may result from pension settlement and curtailment accounting. 

107 

       Table of Contents  

     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm                 

To the Board of Directors and 
  Stockholders of Altria Group, Inc.: 
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive earnings, stockholders  equity, and cash flows, present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31,   2015   and   2014  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2015   in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, Altria Group, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2015  , based on criteria established in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Altria Group, Inc. s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable  

assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  Richmond, Virginia 
  January 28, 2016 

108 

       Table of Contents  

     Report of Management On Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 

Management of Altria Group, Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Internal control over financial reporting includes those written policies and procedures that: 
  n      pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of Altria Group, Inc.; 
  n      provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America; 
  n      provide reasonable assurance that receipts and expenditures of Altria Group, Inc. are being made only in accordance with the authorization of management and directors of Altria Group, Inc.; and 
  n      provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 
  Internal control over financial reporting includes the controls themselves, monitoring and internal auditing practices and actions taken to correct deficiencies as identified. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Management assessed the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2015  .  Management based this assessment on criteria for effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  Management s assessment included an evaluation of the design of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting and testing of the operational effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting.  Management reviewed the results of its assessment with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors. 

Based on this assessment, management determined that, as of December 31,   2015  , Altria Group, Inc. maintained effective internal control over financial reporting. 
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of Altria Group, Inc. included in this report, has audited the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2015  , as stated in their report herein. 
    
  January 28, 2016 

109 

       Table of Contents  

     Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  . 
  None. 
    
    Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  .  
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures    
  Altria Group, Inc. carried out an evaluation, with the participation of Altria Group, Inc. s management, including Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) under the Exchange Act, as amended) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Based upon that evaluation, Altria Group, Inc. s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer  

concluded that Altria Group, Inc. s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.   
  There have been no changes in Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting during the most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, Altria Group, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting. 
  The Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and the Report of Management on Internal Control over Financial Reporting are included in Item 8. 
    Item 9B. Other Information  .  
   None.  

Part III 
  Except for the information relating to the executive officers set forth in Item 10, the information called for by Items 10-14 is hereby incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s definitive proxy statement for use in connection with its Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 19, 2016 that will be filed with the SEC on or about April 7, 2016 (the  proxy statement ), and, except as indicated therein, made a part hereof.  
    
    Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.    
  Refer to  Proposals Requiring Your Vote - Proposal 1 - Election of Directors,   Ownership of Equity Securities of the Company - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  and  Board and Governance Matters - Committees of the Board of Directors  sections of the proxy statement.  
  Executive Officers as of February 12, 2016:  
                   Name 
    Office 
    Age 
      Martin J. Barrington 
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
    62 
      Daniel J. Bryant 
    Vice President and Treasurer 
    46 
      James E. Dillard III 
    Senior Vice President, Research, Development and Regulatory Affairs 
    52 
      Ivan S. Feldman 
    Vice President and Controller 
    49 
      Clifford B. Fleet 
    President and Chief Executive Officer, Philip Morris USA Inc. 
    45 
      William F. Gifford, Jr. 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    45 
      Craig A. Johnson 
    President and Chief Executive Officer, Altria Group Distribution Company 
    63 
      Denise F. Keane 
    Executive Vice President and General Counsel 
    63 
      Salvatore Mancuso 
    Senior Vice President, Strategy, Planning and Accounting 
    50 
      Brian W. Quigley 
    President and Chief Executive Officer, U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC 
    42 
      W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr.  
    Corporate Secretary and Senior Assistant General Counsel 
    50 
      Charles N. Whitaker 
    Senior Vice President, Human Resources, Compliance   Information Services and Chief Compliance Officer 
    49 
      Howard A. Willard III 
    Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 
    52 

All of the above-mentioned officers have been employed by Altria Group, Inc. or its subsidiaries in various capacities during the past five years.   
  Effective January 1, 2016, Mr. Dillard, previously Senior Vice President, Regulatory Affairs and Chief Innovation Officer, Altria Client Services LLC, was appointed Senior Vice President,  

Research, Development and Regulatory Affairs, Altria Group, Inc.  
  Mr. Whitaker s wife and Mr. Surgner s wife are first cousins. 

110 

     Table of Contents  

     Codes of Conduct and Corporate Governance    
  Altria Group, Inc. has adopted the Altria Code of Conduct for Compliance and Integrity, which complies with requirements set forth in Item 406 of Regulation S-K.  This Code of Conduct applies to all of its employees, including its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, and persons performing similar functions.  Altria Group, Inc. has also adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to the members of its Board of Directors.  These documents are available free of charge on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.  
  Any waiver granted by Altria Group, Inc. to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer or controller under the Code of Conduct, and certain amendments to the Code of  

Conduct, will be disclosed on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com within the time period required by applicable rules.  
  In addition, Altria Group, Inc. has adopted corporate governance guidelines and charters for its Audit, Compensation and Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committees and the other committees of the Board of Directors.  All of these documents are available free of charge on Altria Group, Inc. s website at www.altria.com.   
  The information on the respective websites of Altria Group, Inc. and its subsidiaries is not, and shall not be deemed to be, a part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated into any other filings Altria Group, Inc. makes with the SEC.  

Item 11.  Executive Compensation  .  
  Refer to  Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee Matters - Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,   Compensation Committee Matters - Compensation Committee Report for the Year Ended   December 31, 2015    and  Board and Governance Matters - Directors - Director Compensation  sections of the proxy statement. 
    Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  .  
  The number of shares to be issued upon exercise or vesting and the number of shares remaining available for future issuance under Altria Group, Inc. s equity compensation plans at December 31,   2015  , were as follows: 

Number of Shares 
  to be Issued upon 
  Exercise of  
  Outstanding 
  Options and Vesting of 
  Deferred Stock    
  (a)  
    Weighted Average 
  Exercise Price of 
  Outstanding  
  Options    
  (b)  
    Number of Shares 
  Remaining Available for 
  Future Issuance Under Equity  
  Compensation  
  Plans    
  (c)  
      Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders    (1)  
    1,221,985    (2)  
    $  
    40,987,766    (3)  

(1)   
    The following plans have been approved by Altria Group, Inc. shareholders and have shares referenced in column (a) or column (c):  the 2010 Performance Incentive Plan, the 2015 Performance Incentive Plan and the 2015 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. 
       Refer to  Ownership of Equity Securities of the Company - Directors and Executive Officers  and  Ownership of Equity Securities of the Company - Certain Other Beneficial Owners  sections of the proxy statement.  
    Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  .  
  Refer to  Related Person Transactions and Code of Conduct  and  Board and Governance Matters - Directors - Director Independence Determinations  sections of the proxy statement.  
    Item 14.  Principal Accounting Fees and Services  .  
  Refer to  Audit Committee Matters - Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s Fees  and  Audit Committee Matters - Pre-Approval  Policy  sections of the proxy statement.  
      
  111 

       Table of Contents  

   Part IV 
  Item 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  . 
  (a) Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 

Schedules have been omitted either because such schedules are not required or are not applicable. 
    
    (b)  The following exhibits are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K:  
                       
    2.1 
      
    Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Kraft Foods Inc. (now known as Mondel z International, Inc.), dated as of January 31, 2007. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 31, 2007 (File No. 1-08940). 

2.2 
      
    Distribution Agreement by and between Altria Group, Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., dated as of January 30, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 30, 2008 (File No. 1-08940). 

2.3 
      
    Agreement and Plan of Merger by and among UST Inc., Altria Group, Inc., and Armchair Merger Sub, Inc., dated as of September 7, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 8, 2008 (File No. 1-08940). 

2.4 
      
    Amendment No. 1 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of September 7, 2008, by and among UST Inc., Altria Group, Inc., and Armchair Merger Sub, Inc., dated as of October 2, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 3, 2008 (File No. 1-08940). 

3.1 
      
    Articles of Amendment to the Restated Articles of Incorporation of Altria Group, Inc. and Restated Articles of Incorporation of Altria Group, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 (File No. 1-08940). 

3.2 
      
    Amended and Restated By-laws of Altria Group, Inc., effective as of October 28, 2015.  Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 29, 2015 (File No. 1-08940). 

4.1 
      
    Indenture between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of December 2, 1996. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3/A filed on January 29, 1998 (No. 333-35143). 

112 

     Table of Contents  

4.2 
      
    First Supplemental Indenture to Indenture, dated as of December 2, 1996, between Altria Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York (as successor in interest to JPMorgan Chase Bank, formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as Trustee, dated as of February 13, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 15, 2008 (File No. 1-08940). 

4.3 
      
    Indenture among Altria Group, Inc., as Issuer, Philip Morris USA Inc., as Guarantor, and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, as Trustee, dated as of November 4, 2008. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed on November 4, 2008 (No. 333-155009). 

4.4 
      
    Amended and Restated 5-Year Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of August 19, 2013, among Altria Group, Inc. and the Initial Lenders named therein and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents.  Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 23, 2013 (File No. 1-08940).  

4.5 
      
    Extension Agreement, effective August 19, 2014, among Altria Group, Inc. and the lenders thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents.  Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2014 (File No. 1-08940).  

4.6 
      
    Extension Agreement, effective August 19, 2015, among Altria Group, Inc. and the lenders thereto and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agents.  Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on August 21, 2015 (File No. 1-08940).  

4.7 
      
    The Registrant agrees to furnish copies of any instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries that does not exceed 10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its consolidated subsidiaries to the Commission upon request. 

10.1 
      
    Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of October 17, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.2 
      
    Settlement Agreement related to settlement of Florida health care cost recovery action, dated August 25, 1997. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 3, 1997 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.3 
      
    Comprehensive Settlement Agreement and Release related to settlement of Texas health care cost recovery action, dated as of January 16, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 28, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.4 
      
    Settlement Agreement and Stipulation for Entry of Judgment regarding the claims of the State of Minnesota, dated as of May 8, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.5 
      
    Settlement Agreement and Release regarding the claims of Blue Cross and Blue Shield of Minnesota, dated as of May 8, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.6 
      
    Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Agreed Order regarding the settlement of the Mississippi health care cost recovery action, dated as of July 2, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.7 
      
    Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Consent Decree regarding the settlement of the Texas health care cost recovery action, dated as of July 24, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

10.8 
      
    Stipulation of Amendment to Settlement Agreement and For Entry of Consent Decree regarding the settlement of the Florida health care cost recovery action, dated as of September 11, 1998. Incorporated by reference to Altria Group, Inc. s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 1998 (File No. 1-08940). 

113 

     Table of Contents  

114 

     Table of Contents  

115 

     Table of Contents  

*  Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which directors or executive officers are eligible to participate.  

116 

      SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  

ALTRIA GROUP, INC. 

By: 
    /s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 

(Martin J. Barrington 
  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President) 

Date: February 25, 2016 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated:  
    
                         Signature 

Title 

Date 

/s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON       
      (Martin J. Barrington) 
      
    Director, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
      
    February 25, 2016 

/s/ WILLIAM F. GIFFORD, JR.     
      (William F. Gifford, Jr.) 
      
    Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
      
    February 25, 2016 

/s/ IVAN S. FELDMAN 
      (Ivan S. Feldman) 
      
    Vice President and Controller 
      
    February 25, 2016 

* GERALD L. BALILES, 
  JOHN T. CASTEEN III, 
  DINYAR S. DEVITRE, 
  THOMAS F. FARRELL II, 
  THOMAS W. JONES, 
  DEBRA J. KELLY-ENNIS, 
  W. LEO KIELY III,  
  KATHRYN B. MCQUADE, 
  GEORGE MU OZ, 
  NABIL Y. SAKKAB 
      
    Directors 

*By: 
    /s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 
  (MARTIN J. BARRINGTON  
  ATTORNEY-IN-FACT) 

February 25, 2016 

117 

<EX-10.27>
 2
 exhibit1027deferredfeeplan.htm
 DEFERRED FEE PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS, AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.27 
    
  Altria Group, Inc. 
  Deferred Fee Plan for Non-Employee Directors 
  (as amended and restated effective October 28, 2015) 
    
  SECTION 1.        Purposes; Definitions. 
    
  The purpose of the Plan is to afford each Non-Employee Director the option to elect to defer the receipt of all or part of his or her Compensation until such future date as he or she may elect pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan. 
    
  This Plan was previously named the 1992 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  This Plan is hereby amended and restated effective October 28, 2015, and shall govern the rights of Participants on and after such date. 
    
  For purposes of the Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below: 
    
           a. 
     Account    means an unfunded deferred compensation account established by the Company pursuant to the Deferred Fee Program, consisting of one or more Subaccounts established in accordance with Section 3.2.2. 
       
           b. 
     Allocation Date    means any date on which an amount representing all or a part of a Participant s Compensation is to be credited to his or her Account pursuant to an effective Election Form.  The Allocation Date for the Retainer shall be the last business day of each calendar quarter.  
       
           c. 
     Beneficiary    means any person or entity designated as such in a current Election Form. If there is no valid designation or if no designated Beneficiary survives the Participant, the Beneficiary is the Participant s estate. 
       
           d. 
     Board    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
       
           e. 
     Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. 
       
           f. 
     Committee    means the Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee of the Board or a subcommittee thereof, any successor thereto or such other committee or subcommittee as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan. 
       
           g. 
     Common Stock    means the common stock of the Company. 
       
           h. 
     Company    means Altria Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any successor thereto. 
       
           i. 
     Compensation    means the sum of the Retainers payable by the Company to each Participant.  
       1 

j. 
     Deferral Election    means the election by a Participant     on an Election Form to defer the payment of all or part of his or her Compensation to be earned and payable after the applicable effective date set forth in Sections 3.1.1 or 3.1.2. 
       
           k. 
     Deferred Amount    means the amount of Compensation (determined as a percentage of the Retainers) subject to a current Deferral Election. 
       
           l. 
     Deferred Fee Program    means the provisions of the Plan that permit Participants to defer all or part of their Compensation. 
       
           m. 
     Disability    means permanent and total disability within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
       
           n. 
     Distribution Date    means the date designated by a Participant in accordance with Sections 3.3.1 and 3.3.2 for the commencement of payment of amounts credited to his or her Account. 
       
           o. 
     Election Date    means the date an Election Form is received by the Secretary of the Company. 
       
           p. 
     Election Form    means a valid Deferred Fee Program Initial Election Form or Modified Election Form properly completed and signed. 
       
           q. 
       Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as from time to time amended. 
       
           r. 
     Extraordinary Distribution Request Form    means the Deferred Fee Program Extraordinary Distribution Request Form properly completed and executed by a Participant or Beneficiary who wishes to request an extraordinary distribution of amounts credited to his or her Account in accordance with Section 3.3.3. 
       
           s. 
     Fund    means any one of the investment vehicles in which the trust fund established under the trust agreement, as amended from time to time, entered into by the Company in connection with the Profit-Sharing Plan, is invested. 
       
           t. 
     Investment Transfer Election Date    means the date set forth on an Investment Transfer Election Form. 
       
           u. 
     Investment Transfer Election Form    means a valid Deferred Fee Program Investment Transfer Election Form completed and signed by a Participant or Beneficiary. 
       
           v. 
     Non-Employee Director    means each member of the Board who is not a full-time employee of the Company   (  or any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing at least fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote in the election of directors in such corporation  )  . 
       
    2 

w. 
     Participant    means a Non-Employee Director.  A Participant shall also include a person who was, but is no longer, a member of the Board as long as an Account is being maintained for his or her benefit. 
       
           x. 
     Plan    means this Altria Group, Inc. Deferred Fee Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended from time to time. 
       
           y. 
     Profit-Sharing Plan    means the Altria Group, Inc. Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan for Salaried Employees, effective as of January 1, 1956, as amended from time to time. 
       
           z. 
     Retainer    means the portion of a Participant s Compensation that is fixed and paid without regard to his or her attendance at meetings, but shall not include amounts credited to a Participant s account under the 2015 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors or the Unit Plan for Incumbent Non-Employee Directors. 
       
           aa. 
     Subaccount    means one of the bookkeeping accounts established within each Participant s Account in accordance with Section 3.2.2. 

SECTION 2.        Eligibility. 
    
  Each Non-Employee Director shall be eligible to participate in the Deferred Fee Program. 

SECTION 3.        Deferred Fee Program. 

3.1.1        Deferral Elections. 
    
  A Non-Employee Director may elect to defer all or a part of his or her Compensation to be earned and payable thereafter by completing and executing an Election Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company.  Any Deferral Election relating to a Retainer shall be in integral multiples of twenty-five percent (25%) of the Retainer.   
    
  The Participant shall indicate on the Initial Election Form: 
    
  a.    the percentage of each type of Retainer that he or she wishes to defer; 
    
  b.    the Distribution Date; 
    
  c.    whether distributions are to be in a lump sum, in installments or a  
  combination thereof;  
    
  d.    the Participant s Beneficiary or Beneficiaries; and 
    
    3 

e.    the Subaccounts to which the Deferred Amount is to be allocated. 
    
  A Deferral Election shall become effective with respect to a Participant s selected Retainer(s) accruing on and after the first day of the calendar year following the Election Date and shall remain in effect with respect to all future Compensation until a new Deferral Election made by the Participant in accordance with Section 3.1.2 or Section 3.1.3 becomes effective.  In the case of a newly eligible Participant, however, a Deferral Election may be made no later than 30 days after first becoming eligible for this Plan and any other Plan required to be aggregated with this Plan under Code Section 409A and the regulations and other guidance thereunder, and shall not be effective with respect to Compensation to which the Participant becomes entitled as a result of services performed on or before the Election Date. 
    
    3.1.2        Change of Deferral Election.  
    
  A Participant may change his or her Deferral Election with respect to Compensation to be earned and payable in a subsequent calendar year by completing and executing a Modified Election Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company.  A change to increase or decrease the amount of future Retainer(s) to be deferred shall be effective only with respect to Compensation accruing on and after the first day of the calendar year following the Election Date.       
    
    3.1.3        Cessation of Deferrals. 
    
  A Participant may cease to defer future Compensation in the Deferred Fee Program by completing and executing a Modified Election Form, and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company.  An election by a Participant to cease deferrals in the Deferred Fee Program shall become effective with respect to a Participant s Retainer(s) on or after the first day of the first calendar year that begins after the Election Date.   
    
    3.1.4        Beneficiary Election Modification. 
    
  A Participant shall be permitted at any time to modify his or her Beneficiary election, effective as of the Election Date, by completing and executing a Modified Election Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company. 
    
  3.2        Investments. 
    
    3.2.1        Accounts. 
    
  The Company shall establish an Account for each Participant and for each Beneficiary to whom installment distributions are being made.  On each Allocation Date, the Company shall allocate to each Participant s Account an amount equal to his or her Deferred Amount. 

4 

3.2.2        Subaccounts. 
    
  The Company shall establish within each Account one or more Subaccounts.  The Subaccounts shall correspond to the Funds, as the same may change from time to time, under the Profit-Sharing Plan.  The Subaccounts shall be credited with earnings and charged with losses, if any, on the same basis as the corresponding Fund under the Profit-Sharing Plan, except that the Subaccount corresponding to the Common Stock Fund shall have a value based on a theoretical investment in the number of shares of Common Stock determined by dividing the Deferred Amount by the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date the Deferred Amount is credited to the Subaccount, and the Mondel z International, Inc. stock Fund, the Philip Morris International Inc. stock Fund, and The Kraft Heinz Company stock Fund shall have a value based on a theoretical investment on the determination date in the number of shares existing in each such Subaccount as of such date. 
    
  To the extent additional funds are provided under the Profit-Sharing Plan, the Secretary of the Company or his or her designee is authorized to establish corresponding Subaccounts under the Plan.  The Secretary or his or her designee is authorized to limit or prohibit new investments or transfers into any Subaccount.  In connection with the spin-off from the Company of Kraft Foods Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., each Participant with a Subaccount relating to Common Stock at the time of such spin-offs had new Subaccounts established and credited with shares of those respective companies in the same manner as if the Participant were a Company shareholder.  In connection with the spin-off from Kraft Foods Inc. (renamed Mondel z International Inc.) of Kraft Foods Group, Inc., each Participant with a Subaccount holding Kraft Foods, Inc. (renamed Mondel z International, Inc.) at the time of such spin-off had a new Subaccount established and credited with shares of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. in the same manner as if the Participant were a Kraft Foods Inc. (renamed Mondel z International, Inc.) shareholder.  In connection with the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. with H.J. Heinz Holding Company to form The Kraft Heinz Company, each Participant with a Subaccount holding Kraft Foods Group, Inc. at the time of such merger had shares of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. in that Subaccount converted to an equal number of shares of The Kraft Heinz Company in the same manner as if the Participant were a Kraft Foods Group, Inc. shareholder.  New investments and transfers into the Subaccounts relating to shares of Mondel z International, Inc., Philip Morris International Inc., and The Kraft Heinz Company are not permitted. 
    
  Subject to the provisions of Sections 3.2.3 and 3.2.4, on each Allocation Date, each Participant s Subaccounts shall be credited with an amount equal to the Deferred Amount designated by the Participant for allocation to such Subaccounts.  Each Subaccount shall be credited with earnings and charged with losses as if the amounts allocated thereto had been invested in the corresponding Fund, provided that the Subaccount corresponding to the Common Stock Fund shall be credited with additional shares of Common Stock based on the amount of cash dividends that are paid from time to time on the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which the Subaccount s value is determined, and provided further that dividends credited with respect to the Subaccounts relating to shares of Mondel z International, Inc., Philip Morris International Inc., and The Kraft Heinz Company and dividends credited with respect to any other rights or amounts measured by reference to an individual stock other than Common Stock that a Participant has received or receives with respect to any Subaccount shall be allocated  
    5 

among and treated as invested proportionately in the Subaccounts most recently in effect for the investment of  Compensation deferred by the Participant (as determined by reference to such Participant s Election Form then in effect). 
    
  Except as provided with respect to certain dividends in the preceding paragraph, the value of any Subaccount at any relevant time shall be determined as if all amounts credited thereto had been invested in the corresponding Fund. 
    
    3.2.3        Investment Directions. 
    
  In connection with his or her initial Deferral Election, each Participant shall make an investment direction on his or her Initial Election Form with respect to the portion of such Participant s Deferred Amount that is to be allocated to a Subaccount.  Any apportionment of Deferred Amounts (and of increases or decreases in Deferred Amounts) among the Subaccounts shall be in integral multiples of one percent (1%).  An investment direction shall become effective with respect to any Subaccount on the first day of the calendar month following the Election Date.  All investment directions shall be irrevocable and shall remain in effect with respect to all future Deferred Amounts until a new irrevocable investment direction made by the Participant in accordance with Section 3.2.4 becomes effective. 
    
    3.2.4        New Investment Directions. 
    
  A Participant may make a new investment direction with respect to his or her Deferred Amount only by completing and executing a Modified Election Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company.  A new investment direction shall become effective with respect to any Subaccount on the first day of the calendar month following the Election Date. 
    
    3.2.5        Investment Transfers. 
    
  A Participant or a Beneficiary (after the death of the Participant) may transfer to one or more different Subaccounts all or a part (not less than one percent (1%)) of the amounts credited to a Subaccount by completing and executing an Investment Transfer Election Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company; provided that any such transfer involving the Subaccount relating to the Common Stock Fund may only be made to the extent that such transfer would not result in a violation of Section 10(b) or Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act or any other applicable securities law.   
    
  Any transfer of amounts among Subaccounts shall become effective on the first day of the calendar month following the Investment Transfer Election Date. 

6 

3.3        Distributions. 
    
    3.3.1        Distribution Elections. 
    
  Each Participant shall designate on his or her Election Form one of the following dates as a Distribution Date with respect to amounts credited to his or her Account thereafter: 
    
           a. 
    the fifteenth day of the calendar month following the Participant s separation from service as a member of the Board, including by reason of Disability or the Participant s death; 
       
           b. 
    the fifteenth day of the calendar month following the earlier of (i) a calendar month and year specified by the Participant which is at least six months after the Election Date or (ii) the Participant s death; or 
       
           c. 
    the earlier to occur of a or b. 
       
  A Distribution Date election shall be effective only with respect to amounts attributable to service by the Participant on and after the Election Date and subsequent earnings credited with respect to such amounts.  Any election by a Participant for his or her Account to be paid upon his or her separation from service as a member of the Board shall be applied in accordance with Code Section 409A. 
    
  A Participant may request on his or her Election Form that distributions from his or her Account be made in (i) a lump sum, (ii) no more than one-hundred eighty (180) monthly, sixty (60) quarterly or fifteen (15) annual installments or (iii) a combination of (i) and (ii).  Each installment shall be determined by dividing the Account balance by the number of remaining installments.  If a Participant receives a distribution from a Subaccount on an installment basis, amounts remaining in such Subaccount before payment shall continue to accrue earnings and incur losses in accordance with the terms of Section 3.2.2.  Except as stated in the next paragraph, all distributions shall be made to the Participant. 
    
  Upon the Participant s death, the balance remaining in the Participant s Account shall be payable to his or her Beneficiaries as set forth on the Participant s current Election Form or Forms.  Upon the death of a Beneficiary who is receiving distributions in installments, the balance remaining in the Account of the Beneficiary shall be payable to his or her estate in a lump sum, without interest, except to the extent that the Secretary of the Company permits a Participant to elect otherwise in accordance with the procedures of this Section 3.3, taking into account administrative feasibility and other constraints. 
    
  All distributions shall be paid in cash and, except as provided in Section 3.3.3, shall be deemed to have been made from each Subaccount pro rata. 

7 

3.3.2        Modified Distribution Elections. 
    
  A Participant may modify his or her election as to Distribution Date and distribution form with respect to Compensation attributable to future service, with such modification to be effective beginning with the next calendar year and continuing thereafter, by completing and executing a Modified Election Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company. 
    
    3.3.3        Extraordinary Distributions. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant or Beneficiary (after the death of the Participant) may request an extraordinary distribution of all or part of the amount credited to his or her Account because of hardship.  A distribution shall be deemed to be  because of hardship  if such distribution is necessary to alleviate or satisfy an immediate and heavy financial need of the Participant and otherwise satisfies the requirements for the occurrence of an  unforeseeable emergency  within the meaning of Code Section 409A(a)(2). 
    
  A request for an extraordinary distribution shall be made by completing and executing an Extraordinary Distribution Request Form and delivering it to the Secretary of the Company.  All extraordinary distributions shall be subject to approval by the Committee. 
    
  The Extraordinary Distribution Request Form shall indicate: 
    
           a. 
    the amount to be distributed from the Account;  
       
           b. 
    the Subaccount(s) from which the distribution is to be made; and 
       
           c. 
    the  hardship  requiring the distribution. 
       
  The amount of any extraordinary distribution shall not exceed the amount determined by the Committee to be required to meet the immediate financial need of the applicant. 
    
  An extraordinary distribution shall be made with respect to amounts credited to each Subaccount on the first day of the calendar month next following approval of the extraordinary distribution request by the Committee.  Upon approval of an extraordinary distribution request, any Deferral Election in place shall be cancelled prospectively.  A Participant may make a new Deferral Election for a future year in accordance with Section 3.1.2.  

SECTION 4.        General Provisions. 
    
  4.1        Unfunded Plan. 
    
  It is presently intended that the Plan constitute an  unfunded  plan for deferred compensation.  The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations  
    8 

created under the Plan to make payments; provided, however, that, unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the  unfunded  status of the Plan. 
    
  4.2        Rules of Construction. 
    
  The Plan and all actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.  Participants and Beneficiaries are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Virginia to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan. 
    
  Headings are given to the sections of the Plan solely as a convenience to facilitate reference.  The reference to any statute, regulation, or other provision of law shall be construed to refer to any amendment to or successor of such provision of law.   
    
  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, the Plan shall be construed to reflect the intent of the Company that all elections to defer, distributions, and other aspects of the Plan shall comply with Code Section 409A and any regulations and other guidance thereunder.  Each Election Form shall be deemed to be part of the Plan for purposes of Code Section 409A.  All references to separation from service or similar terms in the Plan and an Election Form shall be interpreted to refer to a  separation from service  within the meaning of Code Section 409A. 
    
  The Plan is also intended to be construed so that participation in the Plan will be exempt from Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act pursuant to regulations and interpretations issued from time to time by the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
    
  4.3        Withholding. 
    
  No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includible in the gross income of the Participant for income tax purposes with respect to any participation under the Plan, the Participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind required by law or applicable regulations to be withheld with respect to such amount. 
    
  4.4        Plan Amendment and Termination. 
    
  At any time, the Board may amend or terminate the Plan and the Committee may adopt any modifications, procedures, or subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with the laws, regulations, or accounting practices of a foreign country applicable to Participants subject to the laws of such foreign country; provided, however, that no such amendment or adoption shall be made without shareholder approval if such approval is required under applicable law, regulation, or stock exchange rule. Notwithstanding the foregoing, except as necessary to comply with applicable law or avoid adverse tax consequences to some or all Participants, no amendment or  
    9 

termination of the Plan may materially and adversely affect any outstanding Account under the Plan without the Participant s consent. 
    
  4.5        Duration of Plan. 
    
  The Company hopes to continue the Plan indefinitely, but reserves the right to terminate the Plan by appropriate action of the Board at any time.  Upon termination of the Plan, amounts then credited to each Account shall be paid in accordance with the distribution election then governing such Account or as otherwise provided in Section 3.3.1. 
    
  4.6        Assignability and Successors. 
    
  Except as required by law, no Participant or Beneficiary shall have the right to assign, pledge or otherwise transfer any payments to which such Participant or Beneficiary may be entitled under the Plan other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  The terms of the Plan shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, and any permitted successors or assigns of a Participant. 
    
  4.7        Administration. 
    
  Except for the administrative authority specifically granted to the Secretary of the Company herein, the Committee shall administer the Plan and shall have the power to interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules and guidelines for carrying out the Plan and appoint such delegates as it may deem appropriate.  Any determination made by the Committee or the Secretary, as applicable, in accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee or Secretary, and all decisions made by the Committee or Secretary pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and Plan Participants. 
    
    10 

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.28>
 3
 exhibit10282015stockcompen.htm
 STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS, AS AMENDED AND RESTATED

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.28 
    
  2015 STOCK COMPENSATION PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS 
  (as amended and restated October 28, 2015) 
    
  SECTION 1.        Purpose; Definitions. 
    
  The purposes of the Plan are (i) to assist the Company in promoting the identity of interest between the Company s Non-Employee Directors and the Company s shareholders; and (ii) to assist the Company in attracting and retaining Non-Employee Directors by affording them an opportunity to share in the future successes of the Company. 
  For purposes of the Plan, the following terms are defined as set forth below: 
           (a) 
     Award  means the grant under the Plan (or, to the extent relevant, under any Prior Directors Plan) of Common Stock, Stock Options, or Other Stock-Based Awards. 
              (b) 
     Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
              (c) 
     Committee  means the Nominating, Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility Committee of the Board or a subcommittee thereof, any successor thereto or such other committee or subcommittee as may be designated by the Board to administer the Plan. 
              (d) 
     Common Stock  or  Stock  means the Common Stock of the Company. 
              (e) 
     Company  means Altria Group, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, or any successor thereto. 
              (f) 
     Deferred Stock  means an unfunded obligation of the Company, represented by an entry on the books and records of the Company, to issue one share of Common Stock on the date of distribution with respect to each participant who elects to participate in the Deferred Stock Program. 
              (g) 
     Deferred Stock Account  means the unfunded deferred compensation account established by the Company with respect to each participant who elects to participate in the Deferred Stock Program. 
              (h) 
     Deferred Stock Program  means the provisions of Section 7 of the Plan that permit participants to defer all or part of any Award of Common Stock granted pursuant to Section 5(a) of the Plan. 
              (i) 
     Fair Market Value  means, as of any given date, the mean between the highest and lowest reported sales prices of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange-Composite Transactions.  If no such sale of Common Stock is reported on such date, the fair market value of the Stock shall be determined by the Committee in good faith; provided, however, that the Committee may in its discretion designate the actual sales price as Fair Market Value in the case of dispositions of Common Stock under the Plan.  In the case of Stock Options or similar Other Stock-Based Awards, for purposes of Section 5(a), Fair Market Value means, as of any given date, the Black-Scholes or similar value determined based on the assumptions used for purposes of the Company s most recent financial reporting. 
       1 

(j) 
     Non-Employee Director  means each member of the Board who is not a full-time employee of the Company or of any corporation in which the Company owns, directly or indirectly, stock possessing at least 50% of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock entitled to vote in the election of directors in such corporation. 
              (k) 
     Other Stock-Based Award  means an Award, other than a Stock Option, that is denominated in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on or related to, Common Stock.  Neither an Award of fully-vested Common Stock nor any Deferred Stock relating to such Award pursuant to Section 7 shall be an Other Stock-Based Award. 
              (l) 
     Plan  means this 2015 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended from time to time. 
              (m) 
     Plan Year  means the period commencing at the opening of business on the day on which the Company s annual meeting of shareholders is held and ending on the day immediately preceding the day on which the Company s next annual meeting of shareholders is held. 
              (n) 
     Prior Directors Plans  means the Company s 1992 Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors; the 2000 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors; the 2005 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors; the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective August 31, 2007; the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective February 24, 2010; the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective February 29, 2012; the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective October 1, 2012; the Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended and restated effective January 29, 2014; the 2015 Stock Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, effective May 21, 2015 (the pre-amendment version of this Plan); and any subplans thereof. 
              (o) 
     Stock Option  means a right granted to a Non-Employee Director to purchase a share of Stock at a price equal to the Fair Market Value on the date of grant.  Any Stock Options granted pursuant to the Plan shall be non-qualified stock options. 

SECTION 2.        Administration. 
    
  The Committee shall administer the Plan and shall have the power to interpret the Plan and to adopt such rules and guidelines for carrying out the Plan and appoint such delegates as it may deem appropriate.  Any determination made by the Committee in accordance with the provisions of the Plan with respect to any Award shall be made in the sole discretion of the Committee, and all decisions made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be final and binding on all persons, including the Company and Plan participants. 

2 

SECTION 3.        Eligibility. 
    
  Only Non-Employee Directors shall be granted Awards under the Plan. 

SECTION 4.        Common Stock Subject to the Plan. 
    
           (a) 
    Common Stock Available  .  The total number of shares of Common Stock reserved and available for distribution pursuant to the Plan shall be 1,000,000.  To the extent any Award under this Plan is exercised or cashed out or terminates or expires or is forfeited without a payment being made to the participant in the form of Common Stock, the shares subject to such Award that were not so paid, if any, shall not again be available for distribution in connection with Awards under the Plan.  Upon the exercise of an Other Stock-Based Award that is a stock appreciation right or similar Award that is based on the difference between the price of Common Stock at grant and at exercise, the total number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which such Award is granted (rather than only the net number of Shares issued) will be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of Shares available for delivery under the Plan.  Any shares of Common Stock that are used as full or partial payment of withholding or other taxes or as payment for the exercise or conversion price of an Award under the Plan shall not again be available for distribution in connection with Awards under the Plan.  
              (b) 
    Adjustments for Certain Corporate Transactions  .  In the event of any merger, share exchange, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, reclassification, distribution, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, spin-off, issuance of rights or warrants or other similar transaction or event affecting the Common Stock or any other securities by reference to which any portion of an Award or the Deferred Stock Account is measured, the Committee is authorized to and shall make such adjustments or substitutions with respect to the Plan and any Prior Directors Plan and to Awards granted thereunder as it deems appropriate to reflect the occurrence of such event, including, but not limited to, adjustments (A) to the aggregate number and kind of securities reserved for issuance under the Plan, (B) to the Award amounts set forth in Section 5(a), and (C) to the number and kind of securities subject to outstanding Awards and, if applicable, to the grant or exercise price of outstanding Awards. In connection with any such event, the Committee is also authorized to provide for the payment of any outstanding Awards in cash, including, but not limited to, payment of cash in lieu of any fractional Awards.  In the event of any conflict between this Section 4(b) and other provisions of the Plan or the Prior Directors Plans, the provisions of this section shall control. 
     In connection with the spin-off from the Company of Kraft Foods Inc. and Philip Morris International Inc., each participant holding Deferred Stock at the time of such spin-offs had shares of those respective companies credited to the participant s Deferred Stock Account in the same manner as if the participant were a Company shareholder.  In connection with the spin-off from Kraft Foods Inc. (renamed Mondel z International, 
    3 

Inc.) of Kraft Foods Group, Inc., each participant holding shares of Kraft Foods Inc. (renamed Mondel z International, Inc.) in the participant s Deferred Stock Account at the time of such spin-off had shares of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. credited to the participant s Deferred Stock Account in the same manner as if the participant were a Kraft Foods Inc. (renamed Mondel z International, Inc.) shareholder.  In connection with the merger of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. with H.J. Heinz Holding Company to form The Kraft Heinz Company, each participant holding shares of Kraft Foods Group, Inc. in the participant s Deferred Stock Account at the time of such merger had shares of The Kraft Heinz Company credited to the participant s Deferred Stock Account in the same manner as if the participant were a Kraft Foods Group, Inc. shareholder. 

SECTION 5.        Awards 
    
           (a) 
    Annual Awards  .  On the first day of each Plan Year, each Non-Employee Director serving as such immediately after the annual meeting held on such day shall receive an Award having a Fair Market Value equal to $175,000 (with any fractional share being rounded up to the next whole share) or such greater amount as the Board or Committee determines in its discretion.  Such Award shall be made in the form of Common Stock, Stock Options, Other Stock-Based Awards, or a combination of the foregoing as the Committee determines in its discretion. 
     (b)        Terms of Awards  . 
           (i) 
    Awards pursuant to Section 5(a) that are denominated in Common Stock are eligible for participation in the Deferred Stock Program described in Section 7. 
              (ii) 
    The term of each Stock Option or similar Other Stock-Based Award shall be ten years.  Each Stock Option or Other Stock-Based Award shall vest in not less than twelve months (or such longer period set forth in the Award agreement) and shall be forfeited if the participant does not continue to be a Non-Employee Director for the duration of the vesting period, unless the participant ceases to be a Non-Employee Director by reason of the participant s death or disability.  For the avoidance of doubt, an Award of fully-vested Common Stock and any Deferred Stock relating to such Award pursuant to Section 7 are not subject to the minimum twelve-month vesting requirement.  Subject to the applicable Award agreement, Stock Options or similar Other Stock-Based Awards may be exercised, in whole or in part, by giving written notice of exercise specifying the number of shares to be purchased.  Such notice shall be accompanied by payment in full of the purchase price by certified or bank check or such other instrument as the Company may accept (including, to the extent the Committee determines such a procedure to be acceptable, a copy of instructions to a broker or bank acceptable to the Company to deliver promptly to the Company an amount of sale or loan proceeds sufficient to pay the purchase price).  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, payment in full or in part may also be made in the form of Common Stock already owned by the participant valued at Fair Market Value. 

4 

SECTION 6.        Award Agreements. 
    
  Each Award of a Stock Option or Other Stock-Based Award under the Plan shall be evidenced by a written agreement (which need not be signed by the Award recipient unless otherwise specified by the Committee) that sets forth the terms, conditions and limitations for each such Award.  For the avoidance of doubt, an Award of fully-vested Common Stock and any Deferred Stock relating to such Award pursuant to Section 7 need not be evidenced by a written agreement. 

SECTION 7.        Payments and Payment Deferrals. 
    
           (a) 
    Each participant may elect to participate in the Deferred Stock Program with respect to Awards of Common Stock granted under Section 5(a).  The Deferred Stock Program shall be administered in accordance with the terms of this Section 7, provided that the Committee may modify the terms of the Deferred Stock Program or may require deferral of the payment of Awards under such rules and procedures as it may establish.  Any deferral election shall be made at a time and for such period as shall satisfy the requirements of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A(a)(4). 
              (b) 
    Any election to have the Company establish a Deferred Stock Account shall be made in terms of integral multiples of 25% of the number of shares of Common Stock that the participant otherwise would have been granted on each date of grant, shall be made no later than the last day of the calendar year preceding the calendar year in which services are performed for which the compensation is paid (or in the case of a participant who is first becoming eligible for this Plan and any other Plan required to be aggregated with this Plan under Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the regulations and other guidance thereunder, no later than 30 days after the participant first becomes eligible and before services are performed for which the compensation is paid), and shall specify the time and form of distribution of the participant s Deferred Stock Account in a manner complying with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A(a)(2) and (3). Any such election (including an existing election to participate in the Deferred Stock Program under the Prior Directors Plans) shall remain in effect for purposes of the Plan until the participant executes (i) a new election applicable to any grants denominated in Common Stock to be made in years after the year in which the new election is made or (ii) an election not to participate in the Deferred Stock Program for Common Stock grants in such future years.  New elections pursuant to clause (i) of the preceding sentence may be made only to the extent permitted under rules and procedures established by the Committee taking into account administrative feasibility and other constraints.   
              (c) 
    The Deferred Stock Account of a participant who elects to participate in the Deferred Stock Program shall be unfunded, but shall be credited with shares of Deferred Stock equal to the number of shares of Common Stock that the participant elected to receive as Deferred Stock.  The Deferred Stock Account shall thereafter be credited with amounts equal to the cash dividends that would have been paid had the participant held a number 
       5 

of shares of Common Stock equal to the number of shares of Deferred Stock in the participant s Deferred Stock Account, and any such amounts shall be treated as invested in additional shares of Deferred Stock.  As of the effective date of this Plan, a participant s Deferred Stock Account shall include any Deferred Stock held in the participant s Deferred Stock Account under a Prior Directors Plan immediately before such effective date. 
           (d) 
    If as a result of adjustments or substitutions in connection with an event described in Section 4(b) of this Plan, a participant has received or receives with respect to the participant s Deferred Stock Account rights or amounts measured by reference to stock other than Common Stock (including, without limitation, amounts measured by reference to Mondel z International, Inc., Philip Morris International Inc., or The Kraft Heinz Company), (i) such rights or amounts shall be treated as subject to elections made, crediting of the participant s account, and any other matters relating to this Plan in a manner parallel to the treatment of Deferred Stock under the Plan, provided that any crediting of amounts to reflect dividends with respect to such other stock shall be treated as invested in additional Deferred Stock rather than such other stock, and (ii) the participant shall be offered the opportunity to convert the portion of his or her account measured by reference to such other stock to Deferred Stock with the same Fair Market Value (rounded as necessary to reflect fractional shares) as of the date of such conversion, provided that such conversion may only be made to the extent that such conversion would not result in a violation of Section 10(b) or Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or any other applicable securities law.   
              (e) 
    Amounts under the Deferred Stock Program shall be paid in the form of Common Stock (and cash for any fractional shares) upon distribution; provided, however, that any amounts in the participant s Deferred Stock Account that are measured by reference to stock other than Common Stock shall be paid in cash upon distribution. 
              (f) 
    The Deferred Stock Program shall be administered under such rules and procedures as the Committee or its delegate may from time to time establish, including rules with respect to elections to defer, beneficiary designations and distributions under the Deferred Stock Program. 
              (g) 
    This Plan and the Deferred Stock Program are intended to comply with Internal Revenue Code Section 409A and the regulations and other guidance thereunder, and the Plan and Deferred Stock Program shall be administered and interpreted in accordance with such intent.  The election forms under the Deferred Stock Program shall be deemed to be part of the Plan for purposes of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A.  All references to separation from service or similar terms in the Plan and election forms thereunder shall refer to a  separation from service  within the meaning of Internal Revenue Code Section 409A. 

SECTION 8.        Plan Amendment and Termination. 
    
           (a) 
    Amendment and Termination Authority  .  At any time without shareholder approval, the Board may amend or terminate the Plan and the Committee may amend any Award  
       6 

hereunder or adopt any modifications, procedures, or subplans as may be necessary or desirable to comply with the laws, regulations, or accounting practices of a foreign country applicable to participants subject to the laws of such foreign country; provided, however, that no such amendment or adoption shall be made without shareholder approval if such approval is required under applicable law, regulation, or stock exchange rule. 
           (b) 
    Prohibition on Repricing and Other Actions  .  Notwithstanding Section 8(a), neither the Plan nor any Award hereunder may be amended without shareholder approval in a manner that would: (i) reprice an outstanding Award in any manner that reduces the grant price of an outstanding Stock Option or similar Other Stock-Based Award; (ii) cancel, exchange, substitute, buy out or surrender outstanding Stock Options or similar Other Stock-Based Awards that have a grant price that is higher than Fair Market Value on the date of such transaction in exchange for cash, other Awards, or Stock Options or similar Other Stock-Based Awards with a lower grant price, except as may be necessary to comply with a change in the laws, regulations, or accounting principles of a foreign country applicable to participants subject to the laws of such foreign country; or (iii) increase the total number of shares of Common Stock that may be distributed under the Plan. 
              (c) 
    Limitation on Amendment and Termination  .  Notwithstanding Section 8(a), except as set forth in any Award agreement or as necessary to comply with applicable law or avoid adverse tax consequences to some or all Award recipients, no amendment or termination of the Plan may materially and adversely affect any outstanding Award under the Plan without the Award recipient s consent. 

SECTION 9.        Transferability. 
    
  Except as provided in the applicable Award agreement or otherwise required by law, Awards shall not be transferable or assignable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. 

SECTION 10.  Unfunded Status of Plan. 
    
  It is presently intended that the Plan constitute an  unfunded  plan for incentive and deferred compensation.  The Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver Common Stock or make payments; provided, however, that, unless the Committee otherwise determines, the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the  unfunded  status of the Plan. 

SECTION 11.  General Provisions. 
    
           (a) 
    The Committee may require each participant acquiring shares of Common Stock pursuant to an Award to represent to and agree with the Company in writing that such participant is acquiring the shares without a view to the distribution thereof.  The certificates for such  
       7 

shares, if any, may include any legend that the Committee deems appropriate to reflect any restrictions on transfer. 
  Shares of Common Stock or other securities delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such stock transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (or any successor agency), any stock exchange upon which the Common Stock is then listed, and any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law.  Further, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates for shares of Common Stock or other securities to make appropriate reference to such restrictions. 
           (b) 
    Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Company from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements for Non-Employee Directors. 
              (c) 
    Nothing in the Plan or in any Award agreement shall confer upon any grantee the right to continued service as a member of the Board. 
              (d) 
    No later than the date as of which an amount first becomes includable in the gross income of the participant for income tax purposes with respect to any Award under the Plan, the participant shall pay to the Company, or make arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding the payment of, any federal, state, local or foreign taxes of any kind that are required by law or applicable regulation to be withheld with respect to such amount.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, withholding obligations arising from an Award may be settled with Common Stock, including Common Stock that is part of, or is received upon exercise of the Award that gives rise to the withholding requirement, subject to any restrictions imposed by securities laws, other applicable laws, or accounting principles.  The obligations of the Company under the Plan shall be conditional on such payment or arrangements, and the Company, shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment otherwise due to the participant.  The Committee may establish such procedures as it deems appropriate, including the making of irrevocable elections, for the settling of withholding obligations with Common Stock. 
              (e) 
    The Plan and all Awards made and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, excluding any conflicts or choice of law rule or principle that might otherwise refer construction or interpretation of the Plan to the substantive law of another jurisdiction.  Unless otherwise provided in an Award, recipients of an Award under the Plan are deemed to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue of the federal or state courts of Virginia, to resolve any and all issues that may arise out of or relate to the Plan or any related Award.  
              (f) 
    If any provision of the Plan is held invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be enforced and construed as if such provision had not been included. 
              (g) 
    The terms of the Plan and any Awards hereunder shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or  
       8 

substantially all of the business and/or assets of the Company, and any permitted successors or assigns of a participant. 
           (h) 
    The Plan became effective on the day following the 2015 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Except as otherwise provided by the Board, no Awards shall be made after the Awards made immediately following the 2025 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, provided that any Awards granted prior to that date may extend beyond it. 

9 

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.41>
 4
 exhibit1041timesharingagre.htm
 TIME SHARING AGREEMENT WITH MARTIN J. BARRINGTON DATED NOVEMBER 19, 2015

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.41 

TIME SHARING AGREEMENT 

This TIME SHARING AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is made and entered into effective as of the 19th day of November, 2015, by and between   Altria Client Services LLC,   with an address of 6601 West Broad Street; Richmond, VA 23230 ("Operator") and   Martin J. Barrington,   with an address of 6601 West Broad Street; Richmond, VA 23230 ("Lessee"). 
    
  WHEREAS, Operator owns the aircraft more particularly described on Exhibit A attached hereto (collectively, the "Company Aircraft"); 
    
  WHEREAS, Operator employs a fully qualified flight crew to operate the Company Aircraft; 
    
  WHEREAS, Lessee is required to use Company Aircraft for all travel for reasons of safety and security; 
    
  WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee of the Altria Group, Inc. Board of Directors has approved a certain annual allowance for personal use of the Company Aircraft (the  Flight Allowance  and the Operator and Lessee agree that any personal use of Company Aircraft by Lessee and his accompanying guests which exceeds the Flight Allowance shall be charged to Lessee in accordance with this Agreement.  Lessee s personal use includes use of the Company Aircraft by Lessee s accompanying guests in accordance with the Company Aircraft Usage Policy and Aircraft Usage Procedure; and 
    
  WHEREAS, Operator desires to lease said Company Aircraft with flight crew to Lessee for Lessee s personal use and Lessee desires to lease said Company Aircraft with flight crew from Operator from time-to-time for his personal use on a time sharing basis pursuant to Section 91.501(b)(6) of the Federal Aviation Regulations (the "FARs"). 
    
  NOW THEREFORE, Operator and Lessee declaring their intention to enter into and be bound by this Agreement, and for the good and valuable consideration set forth below, hereby covenant and agree as follows: 
    
  1.  Operator agrees to lease the Company Aircraft to Lessee pursuant to the provisions of FAR Section 91.501(b)(6) and to provide a fully qualified flight crew for all operations on a non-continuous basis commencing on the first date set forth herein  
    1 

above and continuing unless and until terminated. Either party may terminate this Agreement by giving 30 days  written notice to the other party. 
    
  2.  Lessee may use the Company Aircraft from time to time, subject to the prior permission and approval of Operator and in accordance with the Company Aircraft Usage Policy and Aircraft Usage Procedure, for any and all purposes allowed by FAR Section 91.501(b)(6).   
    
  3.  For all flights or portions thereof made in connection with Lessee s personal use and operated under this Agreement (including deadhead flights associated with personal use), the Operator shall, in accordance with this Agreement and consistent with the Company Aircraft Usage Policy and Aircraft Usage Procedure, debit Lessee s Flight Allowance until such Flight Allowance has been reduced to zero, and thereafter invoice Lessee an amount not to exceed the lesser of Operator s incremental cost for each such flight or portion thereof and the maximum charge authorized by FAR Section 91.501(d).   
    
  (a)        Incremental cost includes flight-related crew lodging and meals away from the Company Aircraft s base of operations; in-flight food and beverages; landing and ground handling fees away from the Company Aircraft s base of operations; hourly maintenance contract costs; hangar or aircraft parking fees away from the Company Aircraft s base of operations; fuel cost (based on the average monthly cost of fuel per hour flown); and documented additional variable costs.   Incremental cost does not include fixed costs, for example:  Company Aircraft purchase costs; depreciation; maintenance not related to specific flights conducted for Lessee for his personal travel; and flight crew salaries. 
    
  (b)        The maximum charge authorized by FAR Section 91.501(d) is, as of the date hereof, the sum of the following: 
    
  (i)        twice the cost of fuel, oil, lubricants and other additives; 
    
  (ii)        travel expenses of the crew, including food, lodging and ground transportation; 
    
  (iii)        hangar and tie down costs away from the Company Aircraft s base of operations; 
    
  (iv)        insurance obtained for the specific flight; 
    
  (v)        landing fees, airport taxes and similar assessments; 
    
  (vi)        customs, foreign permit and similar fees directly related to the flight; 

2 

(vii)        in flight food and beverages; 
    
  (viii)        passenger ground transportation; and 
    
  (ix)        flight planning and weather contract services. 
    
  (c)        The parties acknowledge that, with the exception of the expenses for in-flight food and beverages and passenger ground transportation, any payments under  this Section 3 are subject to the federal excise tax imposed under Section 4261 of the Internal Revenue Code associated with such flight(s).  Operator agrees to collect and remit to the Internal Revenue Service for the benefit of Lessee all such federal excise taxes.  
    
  4.  Operator will provide a monthly invoice to Lessee for the fees and applicable taxes due from Lessee as determined in accordance with Section 3 above. Lessee shall pay or remit to Operator such amounts within 30 days of receipt of the invoice therefore.  
    
  5.  Lessee will provide Operator with requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules as far in advance of any given flight as possible. Requests for flight time and proposed flight schedules shall be made in accordance with the Company Aircraft Usage Policy and Aircraft Usage Procedure. In addition to proposed schedules and flight times, Lessee shall provide at least the following information for each proposed flight at some time prior to scheduled departure as required by Operator or Operator's flight crew: 
    
           (a) 
    proposed departure point; 
              (b) 
    destination; 
              (c) 
    date and time of flight; 
              (d) 
    the number and names of anticipated passengers; 
              (e) 
    designation of each passenger's trip purpose (personal, business, or mixed business/personal); 
              (f) 
    the nature and extent of unusual luggage and/or cargo to be carried; 
              (g) 
    the date and time of a return flight, if any; and 
              (h) 
    any other information concerning the proposed flight that may be pertinent or required by Operator or Operator s flight crew. 
       
  Operator shall have final authority over the scheduling of the Company Aircraft and each use of the Company Aircraft by the Lessee shall be subject to Operator s prior approval and in accordance with the Company Aircraft Usage Policy and Aircraft Usage Procedure.  Lessee acknowledges that business utilization of the Company Aircraft will take precedence over Lessee s personal use.   

3 

6.        Lessee agrees that when, in the reasonable view of Operator or the pilots of the Company Aircraft, safety may be compromised, Operator or the pilots may terminate a flight, refuse to commence a flight, or take other action necessitated by such safety considerations without liability for loss, injury, damage, or delay.  Operator shall not be liable to Lessee or any other person for loss, injury, or damage occasioned by the delay or failure to furnish the Company Aircraft and crew pursuant to this Agreement for any reason. 
    
  7.        Operator shall pay all expenses related to the ownership and operation of Company Aircraft subject to the reimbursements provided for herein.  Operator shall be solely responsible for securing qualified flight crew, maintenance, preventive maintenance and required or otherwise necessary inspections on the Company Aircraft, and shall take such requirements into account in scheduling the Company Aircraft.  No period of maintenance, preventive maintenance or inspection shall be delayed or postponed for the purpose of scheduling the Company Aircraft, unless said maintenance or inspection can be safely conducted at a later time in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, and within the sound discretion of the pilot in command. 
    
  8.        Operator shall be responsible for the physical and technical operation of the Company Aircraft and the safe performance of all flights and shall retain full authority and control, including exclusive operational control, and possession, command and control of the Company Aircraft at all times during the term of this Agreement.  In accordance with applicable FAR, the qualified flight crew provided by Operator will exercise all required and/or appropriate duties and responsibilities in regard to the safety of each flight conducted hereunder.  The pilot-in-command shall have absolute discretion in all matters concerning the preparation of the Company Aircraft for flight and the flight itself, the load carried and its distribution, the decision whether or not a flight shall be undertaken, the route to be flown, the place where landings shall be made and all other matters relating to operation of the Company Aircraft.  Lessee specifically agrees that the flight crew shall have final and complete authority to delay or cancel any flight for any reason or condition which, in sole judgment of the pilot-in-command, could compromise the safety of the flight and to take any other action which, in the sole judgment of the pilot-in-command, is necessitated by considerations of safety.  No such action of the pilot-in-command shall create or support any liability to Lessee or any other person for loss, injury, damages or delay.  
    
  9.        Operator may maintain such insurance coverage with respect to the Company Aircraft and any flights made under this Agreement as Operator may elect, in its sole discretion.  Operator will provide such additional insurance coverage as Lessee shall request or require; provided, however, that the cost of such additional insurance will be borne by Lessee. 
    
  10.        Lessee warrants that: 
    
    4 

(a) 
    he will use the Company Aircraft for and on account of himself, his accompanying personal guests and his own personal business only, and will not accept any compensation whatsoever for any flight or portion thereof conducted under this Agreement; 
              (b) 
    during the term of this Agreement, he will abide by and conform to all such laws, governmental and airport orders, rules and regulations, as shall from time to time be in effect relating in any way to the operation and use of the Company Aircraft by a time sharing Lessee; and 
              (c) 
    Lessee shall not, directly or indirectly, create or incur any kind of lien or security interest on or affecting the Company Aircraft or do anything or take any action that might result in the creation of such a lien, and Lessee shall, at Lessee s own expense, promptly take such action as may be necessary to discharge any such lien. 
       
  11.        Lessee agrees that the insurance specified in Section 9 shall provide Lessee s sole recourse against Operator, its employees, agents, parents and affiliates, for all claims, losses, liabilities, obligations, demands, suits, judgments or causes of action, penalties, fines, costs and expenses of any nature whatsoever, including attorneys  fees and expenses for or on account of or arising out of, or in any way connected with the use of the Company Aircraft by Lessee or Lessee s guests, including injury to or death of any persons, including Lessee and Lessee s guests, which may result from or arise out of the use or operation of the Company Aircraft during the term of this Agreement.  This Section 11 shall survive termination of this Agreement. 
    
  12.        OPERATOR, ITS EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, PARENTS AND AFFILIATES, SHALL IN NO EVENT BE LIABLE TO LESSEE OR LESSEE S EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, REPRESENTATIVES, GUESTS, OR INVITEES FOR ANY INDIRECT, SPECIAL, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES AND/OR PUNITIVE DAMAGES OF ANY KIND OR NATURE UNDER ANY CIRCUMSTANCES OR FOR ANY REASON INCLUDING ANY DELAY OR FAILURE TO FURNISH THE COMPANY AIRCRAFT OR CAUSED OR OCCASIONED BY THE PERFORMANCE OR NON-PERFORMANCE OF ANY SERVICES COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT. 
    
  13.        NEITHER OPERATOR NOR ITS PARENTS, AFFILIATES, EMPLOYEES OR AGENTS MAKES, HAS MADE OR SHALL BE DEEMED TO MAKE OR HAVE MADE ANY WARRANTY OR REPRESENTATION, EITHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, WRITTEN OR ORAL, WITH RESPECT TO ANY AIRCRAFT TO BE USED HEREUNDER OR ANY ENGINE OR COMPONENT THEREOF INCLUDING, WITHOUT LIMITATION, ANY WARRANTY AS TO DESIGN, COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, QUALITY OF MATERIALS OR WORKMANSHIP, MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE, USE OR OPERATION, OR AIRWORTHINESS. 
    5 

14.        Neither this Agreement nor either party's interest herein shall be assignable to any other party. Any purported assignment shall be null and void. This Agreement shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto, their heirs, representatives and successors. 
    
  15.  This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the transactions contemplated by this Agreement.  No provision of this Agreement may be amended unless such amendment is agreed to in writing and signed by the parties.  If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 
    
  16.  Nothing herein shall be construed to create a partnership, joint venture, franchise, employer-employee relationship or to create any relationship of principal and agent. 
    
  17.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to its choice of law provisions. 
    
  18.  All notices and other communications required or permitted to be given hereunder shall be (as elected by the party giving such notice) (i) personally delivered to the party to whom it is to be given, (ii) transmitted by email, telecopy or facsimile, (iii) transmitted by postage prepaid certified mail, return receipt requested, or (iv) delivered by a recognized overnight courier service, in each case at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice) or to the email address or telecopy number of the party: 
    
  (a)  If to Operator: 
    
  To:          Altria Client Services LLC 
  6601 West Broad Street 
  Richmond, VA  23230 
  Attn:  Jeffrey A. Sands 
    
  (b)        If to Lessee: 
    
    To:        Martin J. Barrington 
    6601 West Broad Street 
    Richmond, VA  23230       
       
  19.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts each of which will be deemed an original, all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement.  
    
    6 

20.  TRUTH IN LEASING STATEMENT UNDER SECTION 91.23 OF THE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS ("FAR"). 
    
           (A) 
    ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES LLC ("OPERATOR") HEREBY CERTIFIES THAT THE COMPANY AIRCRAFT HAVE BEEN INSPECTED AND MAINTAINED WITHIN THE 12 MONTH PERIOD PRECEDING THE DATE OF THIS AGREEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE PROVISIONS OF FAR PART 91 AND ALL APPLICABLE REQUIREMENTS FOR THE MAINTENANCE AND INSPECTION THEREUNDER HAVE BEEN MET. 
              (B) 
    ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES LLC WITH AN ADDRESS OF 6601 WEST BROAD STREET; RICHMOND, VA 23230 ("OPERATOR") AGREES, CERTIFIES AND KNOWINGLY ACKNOWLEDGES THAT WHEN THE COMPANY AIRCRAFT ARE OPERATED UNDER THIS AGREEMENT, IT SHALL BE KNOWN AS, CONSIDERED, AND SHALL IN FACT BE THE OPERATOR OF THE COMPANY AIRCRAFT, AND THAT ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES LLC UNDERSTANDS ITS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPLIANCE WITH APPLICABLE FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS. 
              (C) 
    THE PARTIES UNDERSTAND THAT AN EXPLANATION OF FACTORS AND PERTINENT FEDERAL AVIATION REGULATIONS BEARING ON OPERATIONAL CONTROL CAN BE OBTAINED FROM THE NEAREST FAA FLIGHT STANDARDS DISTRICT OFFICE. 
              (D) 
    LESSEE AND OPERATOR CERTIFY THAT THEY SHALL COMPLY WITH THE TRUTH-IN-LEASING REQUIREMENTS DEFINED IN EXHIBIT B ATTACHED HERETO. 
       
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written. The persons signing below warrant their authority to sign. 
    
                         Operator: 
      
    Lessee: 

ALTRIA CLIENT SERVICES LLC 

By:   /s/ Rodger W. Rolland 
      
    /s/ Martin J. Barrington 
      Name: 
    Rodger W. Rolland 
      
    Martin J. Barrington 
      Title: 
    Vice President, Compensation, 

Benefits   HR Services 

7 

EXHIBIT A 

8 

EXHIBIT B 
  INSTRUCTIONS FOR COMPLIANCE WITH  
  TRUTH IN LEASING REQUIREMENTS 
    
           1. 
    Mail a copy of the Time Sharing Agreement to the following address via certified mail, return receipt requested, immediately upon execution of the Agreement (14 C.F.R.  91.23(c)(1) requires that the copy be sent   within twenty-four (24) hours after it is signed): 
       
                     Federal Aviation Administration 
      
      Aircraft Registration Branch 
      
      ATTN: Technical Section 
      
      P.O. Box 25724 
      
      Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 73125 

2. 
    At least forty-eight (48) hours prior to the first flight made under this Agreement, Operator (on behalf of Lessee) shall give notice of the proposed flight by telephone, fax or in person to the FAA Flight Standards District Office located nearest the flight. 
       
           3. 
    Operator shall carry a copy of the Agreement in the Company Aircraft at all times when the Company Aircraft is being operated under the Agreement. The Agreement shall be made available for review upon request by the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration.  

9 

</EX-10.41>

<EX-12>
 5
 exhibit12computationofrati.htm
 STATEMENTS REGARDING COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12 

1 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 exhibit21altriagroupincsub.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF ALTRIA GROUP, INC.

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
  ALTRIA GROUP, INC. SUBSIDIARIES 
       
  Certain subsidiaries of Altria Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2015 and their respective state of incorporation or organization are listed below.  The names of certain other subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as of December 31, 2015, a  significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X.                         
    Name 
      
    State of Incorporation or   Organization 

Philip Morris USA Inc. 
      
    Virginia 

U.S. Smokeless Tobacco Company LLC 
      
    Virginia 

UST LLC 
      
    Virginia 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 exhibit23consentofindepend.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23  
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-Effective Amendment No. 13 to the Registration Statement on Form S-14 (File No. 2-96149) and in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (File No. 333-199694) and Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-28631, 33-10218, 33-13210, 33-14561, 33-48781, 33-59109, 333-43478, 333-43484, 333-128494, 333-139523, 333-148070, 333-156188, 333-167516, 333-170185 and 333-204477) of Altria Group, Inc. of our report dated January 28, 2016 relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP  
  Richmond, Virginia  
  February 25, 2016  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 exhibit24powersofattorney2.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Exhibit 

Exhibit 24 
  POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ GERALD L. BALILES 
    Gerald L. Baliles 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ JOHN T. CASTEEN III 
    John T. Casteen III 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ DINYAR S. DEVITRE 
    Dinyar S. Devitre 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ THOMAS F. FARRELL II 
    Thomas F. Farrell II 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ THOMAS W. JONES 
    Thomas W. Jones 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set her hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ DEBRA J. KELLY-ENNIS 
    Debra J. Kelly-Ennis 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ W. LEO KIELY III 
    W. Leo Kiely III 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, her true and lawful attorney, for her and in her name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set her hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ KATHRYN B. MCQUADE 
    Kathryn B. McQuade 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ GEORGE MU OZ 
    George Mu oz 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENT THAT   the undersigned, a Director of Altria Group, Inc., a Virginia corporation (the  Company ), does hereby constitute and appoint Martin J. Barrington, Denise F. Keane, William F. Gifford, Jr., and W. Hildebrandt Surgner, Jr., or any one or more of them, his true and lawful attorney, for him and in his name, place and stead, to execute, by manual or facsimile signature, electronic transmission or otherwise, the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015 and any amendments or supplements to said Annual Report and to cause the same to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, together with any exhibits, financial statements and schedules included or to be incorporated by reference therein, hereby granting to said attorneys full power and authority to do and perform all and every act and thing whatsoever requisite or desirable to be done in and about the premises as fully to all intents and purposes as the undersigned might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things which said attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of these present. 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the undersigned has hereunto set his hand and seal this 25th day of February, 2016. 

/s/ NABIL Y. SAKKAB 
    Nabil Y. Sakkab 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 exhibit311q42015.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1 
    
  Certifications 
    
  I, Martin J. Barrington, certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  
       
  Date:    February 25, 2016 

/s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 
        
    Martin J. Barrington 
        
    Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 exhibit312q42015.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)/15D-14(A)

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2 
    
  Certifications 
    
  I, William F. Gifford, Jr., certify that: 
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Altria Group, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
       
           5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  
       
  Date:    February 25, 2016 
                   
    /s/ WILLIAM F. GIFFORD, JR. 
        
    William F. Gifford, Jr. 
        
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 exhibit321q42015.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2015   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Martin J. Barrington, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
    (1)        the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
    
    (2)        the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ MARTIN J. BARRINGTON 
  Martin J. Barrington 
  Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President 
  February 25, 2016 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 exhibit322q42015.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. 1350

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Altria Group, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended   December 31, 2015   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, William F. Gifford, Jr., Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
    (1)        the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
    
    (2)        the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ WILLIAM F. GIFFORD, JR. 
  William F. Gifford, Jr. 
  Executive Vice President and 
  Chief Financial Officer 
  February 25, 2016 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 13
 exhibit991q42015.htm
 CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS

Exhibit 

Exhibit 99.1 

CERTAIN LITIGATION MATTERS 
    
  As described in Item 3.   Legal Proceedings   in the Annual Report on Form 10-K to which this Exhibit 99.1 is attached ( Item 3 ) and in   Note 18  .   Contingencies   to Altria Group, Inc. s consolidated financial statements in Item 8 of such Annual Report on Form 10-K (   Note 18   ), there are legal proceedings covering a wide range of matters pending or threatened in various United States and foreign jurisdictions against Altria Group, Inc., its subsidiaries, including Philip Morris USA Inc. ( PM USA ), and their respective indemnitees.  Various types of claims may be raised in these proceedings, including product liability, consumer protection, antitrust, tax, contraband shipments, patent infringement, employment matters, claims for contribution and claims of competitors or distributors.  Pending claims related to tobacco products generally fall within the following categories: (i) smoking and health cases alleging personal injury brought on behalf of individual plaintiffs, (ii) smoking and health cases primarily alleging personal injury or seeking court-supervised programs for ongoing medical monitoring and purporting to be brought on behalf of a class of individual plaintiffs, including cases in which the aggregated claims of a number of individual plaintiffs are to be tried in a single proceeding, (iii) health care cost recovery cases brought by governmental (both domestic and foreign) plaintiffs seeking reimbursement for health care expenditures allegedly caused by cigarette smoking and/or disgorgement of profits, (iv) class action suits alleging that the uses of the terms  Lights  and  Ultra Lights  constitute deceptive and unfair trade practices, common law fraud or statutory fraud, unjust enrichment, breach of warranty, or violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, (v) international cases, and (vi) other tobacco-related litigation. 
    
  The following lists certain of the pending claims against Altria Group, Inc., PM USA, UST LLC ( UST ) and/or UST s subsidiaries included in these categories. 
    
  SMOKING AND HEALTH LITIGATION 
    
  The following lists the consolidated individual smoking and health cases as well as smoking and health class actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates, as of February 22, 2016.  See   International Cases   below for a list of smoking and health class actions pending in Canada. 
    
  Consolidated Individual Smoking and Health Case 
    
  In re: Tobacco Litigation (Individual Personal Injury cases), Circuit Court, Ohio County, West Virginia, consolidated January 11, 2000.    See     Note 18   for a discussion of this litigation. 
    
  Flight Attendant Litigation 
    
  The settlement agreement entered into in 1997 in the case of   Broin, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al.  , which was brought by flight attendants seeking damages for personal injuries allegedly caused by environmental tobacco smoke, allowed members of the   Broin   class to file individual lawsuits seeking compensatory damages, but prohibited them from seeking punitive damages.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this litigation. 
    
  Domestic Class Actions 
    
  Engle, et al. v. R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Co., et al., Circuit Court, Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Dade County, Florida, filed May 5, 1994.    See     Note 18   for a discussion of this case (which has concluded) and the   Engle   progeny litigation. 
    
  Young, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Civil District Court, Orleans Parish, Louisiana, filed November 12, 1997. 
    
  Parsons, et al. v. A C   S, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Kanawha County, West Virginia, filed February 27, 1998. 
    
  Cypret, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, et al., Circuit Court, Jackson County, Missouri, filed December 22, 1998. 
    
  Donovan, et al. v. Philip Morris, United States District Court, District of Massachusetts, filed March 2, 2007.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 

1 

      HEALTH CARE COST RECOVERY LITIGATION 
    
  The following lists the health care cost recovery actions pending against PM USA and, in some cases, Altria Group, Inc. and/or its other subsidiaries and affiliates as of February 22, 2016.  See   International Cases   below for a list of international health care cost recovery actions. 
    
  Possible Adjustments in MSA Payments for 2003 to 2014 and Other Disputes Related to MSA Payments 
    
  State of Indiana v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Marion County, Indiana, filed June 7, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Commonwealth of Kentucky v. Brown   Williamson Tobacco Corp., et al., Franklin Circuit Court, Division No. 1, Kentucky, filed June 10, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  State of Maryland v. Philip Morris Inc. et al., Circuit Court, Baltimore County, Maryland, filed March 26, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  State of Missouri v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Twenty-Second Judicial Circuit, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed June 7, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  State of New Mexico v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., First Judicial District, Santa Fe County, New Mexico, filed June 10, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  State of New York v. Philip Morris Inc., et al., Supreme Court, New York County, New York, filed April 12, 2013. 
    
  Commonwealth of Pennsylvania v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Court of Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, First Judicial District, Pennsylvania, filed April 3, 2013.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  State of Wisconsin v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Branch 11, Dane County, Wisconsin, filed June 18, 2014. 
    
  District of Columbia v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Superior Court, District of Columbia, filed September 12, 2013. 
    
  Department of Justice Case 
    
  The United States of America v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed September 22, 1999  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
   LIGHTS/ULTRA LIGHTS  CASES 
    
  The following lists the  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries and others as of February 22, 2016.  
    
  Brown, et al. v. The American Tobacco Company, Inc., et al., Superior Court, San Diego County, California, filed June 10, 1997.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
  Aspinall, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc. and Philip Morris Incorporated, Superior Court, Suffolk County, Massachusetts, filed November 24, 1998  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Price, et al. v. Philip Morris Inc., Circuit Court, Third Judicial Circuit, Madison County, Illinois, filed February 10, 2000.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Larsen, et al. v. Philip Morris Inc. (formerly Craft, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al.), Circuit Court, City of St. Louis, Missouri, filed February 14, 2000  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Hines, et al. v. Philip Morris Companies Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Fifteenth Judicial Circuit, Palm Beach County, Florida, filed February 23, 2001  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Moore, et al. v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Marshall County, West Virginia, filed September 17, 2001. 
    
    2 

      Pearson v. Philip Morris Incorporated, et al., Circuit Court, Multnomah County, Oregon, filed November 20, 2002  .  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Virden v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Hancock County, West Virginia, filed March 28, 2003. 
    
  Stern, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, Middlesex County, New Jersey, filed April 4, 2003. 
    
  Arnold, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed May 5, 2003. 
    
  Miner, et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al. (formerly Watson, et al. v. Altria Group, Inc., et al.), Circuit Court, Pulaski County, Arkansas, filed May 29, 2003.    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Carroll (formerly Holmes), et al. v. Philip Morris USA Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed August 18, 2003.    See     Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Kelly v. Martin   Bayley, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Madison County, Illinois, filed February 4, 2005.   This case is an individual  Lights  case, not a class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  INTERNATIONAL CASES 
    
  The following lists cases pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its subsidiaries in foreign jurisdictions as of February 22, 2016. 
    
  Canada 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of British Columbia v. Imperial Tobacco Limited, et al., Supreme Court, British Columbia, Vancouver Registry, Canada, filed January 24, 2001.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province of New Brunswick v. Rothmans, Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of New Brunswick Judicial District of Fredericton, Canada, filed March 13, 2008.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Dorion v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, Canada, filed on or about June 17, 2009  .  Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
  Semple v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, Canada, filed on or about June 18, 2009.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Kunta v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Manitoba, Winnipeg Judicial Centre, Canada, filed on an unknown date in June 2009  .  Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
  Adams v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council, et al., Court of Queen s Bench for Saskatchewan, Judicial Centre of Regina, Canada, filed on or about July 10, 2009.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Ontario v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Superior Court of Justice of Ontario, Canada, filed on or about September 30, 2009.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Bourassa v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court of British Columbia, Victoria Registry, Canada, filed on or about June 25, 2010.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  McDermid v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Supreme Court of British Columbia, Victoria Registry, Canada, filed on or about June 25, 2010.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Attorney General of Newfoundland and Labrador v. Rothmans Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Newfoundland and Labrador, Trial Division, Canada, filed February 8, 2011  .  Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case.  
    
  Attorney General of Quebec v. Imperial Tobacco Canada Limited, et al., Superior Court of Quebec, Montreal District, Canada, filed June 8, 2012  .  Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    3 

Her Majesty in Right of Alberta v. Altria Group, Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Alberta, Judicial District of Calgary, Canada, filed June 8, 2012  .  Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in the Right of Manitoba v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Manitoba, Winnipeg Judicial Centre, Canada, filed May 31, 2012.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of Saskatchewan v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges Inc., et al., Court of Queen s Bench of Saskatchewan, Judicial Centre of Saskatoon, Canada, filed on June 8, 2012.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty in the Right of the Province of Prince Edward Island v. Rothmans, Benson   Hedges, Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Prince Edward Island, filed on September 10, 2012.    Health care cost recovery action  .    See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Her Majesty the Queen in Right of the Province of Nova Scotia v. Benson   Hedges, Inc., et al., Supreme Court of Nova Scotia, filed on January 2, 2015.    Health care cost recovery action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Jacklin v. Canadian Tobacco Manufacturers  Council et al., Ontario Superior Court of Justice, Case No. 5379412, Ontario, Canada, filed on or about June 27, 2012.    Smoking and health class action.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  CERTAIN OTHER TOBACCO-RELATED ACTIONS 
    
  The following lists certain other tobacco-related litigation pending against Altria Group, Inc. and/or its various subsidiaries as of February 22, 2016.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of these cases. 
    
  Ignition Propensity Case 
    
  Walker, et al. v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., et al., Circuit Court, Nelson County, Kentucky, filed February 1, 2008  . 
    
  False Claims Act Case 
    
  United States ex. rel. Anthony Oliver v. Philip Morris USA, Inc., United States District Court, District of Columbia, filed under seal September 12, 2008 and unsealed by the district court on September 13, 2011. 
    
  Argentine Grower Cases 
    
  Hupan, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on February 14, 2012. 
    
  Chalanuk, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on April 14, 2012. 
    
  Clarisa Rodriguez Da Silva, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on October 25, 2012. 
    
  Alfredo Aranda, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware filed on March 1, 2013. 
    
  Taborda, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware filed on August 9, 2013.  
    
  Biglia, et al. v. Alliance One International, Inc., et al., Superior Court, New Castle County, Delaware, filed on January 1, 2014. 
    
    4 

      UST LITIGATION 
    
  The following action is pending against UST and/or its subsidiaries as of February 22, 2016.  See   Note 18   for a discussion of this case. 
    
  Vassallo v. United States Tobacco Co., et al  .,   Circuit Court of the Eleventh Judicial District, Miami-Dade County, Florida  ,   filed November 12, 2002. 
    
    5 

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 14
 exhibit992q42015.htm
 TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 99.2 

TRIAL SCHEDULE FOR CERTAIN CASES  
    
  Below is a schedule, as of February 22, 2016, setting forth by month the number of individual smoking and health cases and  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases against Philip Morris USA Inc. that are scheduled for trial through April 31, 2016.  
    
  2016 
    
  Engle   progeny                           

As of February 22, 2016, there were two   Engle   progeny cases in trial. 
    
  Other Individual Smoking   Health  

As of February 22, 2016, there were no non-  Engle   progeny cases in trial. 
    
   Lights/Ultra Lights   

As of February 22, 2016, there were no  Lights/Ultra Lights  cases in trial. 

</EX-99.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 15
 mo-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 16
 mo-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 17
 mo-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 18
 mo-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 19
 mo-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 20
 mo-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

