<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080702_10-K_edgar_data_1341439_0000950134-08-012257_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1957677</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>425395</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6339</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1107567</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>6</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950134-08-012257.hdr.sgml : 20080702
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080702060147
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950134-08-012257
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		8
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20080531
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080702
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080702

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ORACLE CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001341439
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				542185193
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0531

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-51788
		FILM NUMBER:		08931557

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 ORACLE PARKWAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 5 OP 7
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065
		BUSINESS PHONE:		6505067000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 ORACLE PARKWAY
		STREET 2:		MAIL STOP 5 OP 7
		CITY:			REDWOOD CITY
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94065

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	Ozark Holding Inc.
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20051013

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ESiKcF90hZNGLpqwcPaCls2UKbs18loAJG/OWXH0SZAP3GvkQNWQ2WSW0gmmTc10
 KtFzGXo0bFVqfdjZua7OlQ==

 0000950134-08-012257.txt : 20080702

10-K
 1
 f41477e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K  

Commission file number: 000-51788 

Oracle Corporation  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

54-2185193 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)   

500 Oracle Parkway 

Redwood City, California 94065 

(Address of principal executive
    offices, including zip code)  

(650) 506-7000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of Each Class  

Name of Each Exchange on Which
    Registered  

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share

The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: 

None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  YES         NO   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  YES         NO   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  YES         NO   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer ,  accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large Accelerated
    filer    

Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated
    filer       (Do
    not check if a smaller reporting company)

Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  YES         NO   

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
    non-affiliates of the registrant was $80,698,061,000 based on
    the number of shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant as
    of May 31, 2008, and based on the closing sale price of
    common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market on
    November 30, 2007, which is the last business day of the
    registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.
    This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons
    are affiliates for any other purposes.

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of June 27,
    2008: 5,155,842,000

Documents Incorporated by Reference: 

Part III Portions of the registrant s definitive
    proxy statement to be issued in conjunction with
    registrant s annual stockholders  meeting to be held
    on October 10, 2008.

ORACLE
    CORPORATION  

FISCAL
    YEAR 2008 
     FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT 

TABLE OF
    CONTENTS  

Page 

PART I. 

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

13

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

21

Item 2. 

Properties 

21

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

22

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

22

PART II. 

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

23

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

25

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

25

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

56

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

59

Item 9. 

Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

59

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

60

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

61

PART III. 

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

61

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

61

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

61

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

62

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

62

PART IV. 

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

62

Signatures 

112

EXHIBIT 12.01    
     EXHIBIT 21.01    
     EXHIBIT 23.01    
     EXHIBIT 31.01    
     EXHIBIT 31.02    
     EXHIBIT 32.01    

Table of Contents   

Forward-Looking
    Statements  

For purposes of this Annual Report, the terms
     Oracle,   we,   us  and
     our  refer to Oracle Corporation and its consolidated
    subsidiaries. In addition to historical information, this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and
    uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ
    materially. Factors that might cause or contribute to such
    differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in
    Item 1A. Risk Factors. When used in this report, the words
     expects,   anticipates, 
     intends,   plans,   believes, 
     seeks,   estimates  and similar expressions
    are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements.
    You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking
    statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of
    this Annual Report. We undertake no obligation to publicly
    release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after
    the date of this document. You should carefully review the risk
    factors described in other documents we file from time to time
    with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including
    the Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    to be filed by us in our 2009 fiscal year, which runs from
    June 1, 2008 to May 31, 2009.

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

General  

We are the world s largest enterprise software company. We
    develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database
    and middleware software as well as applications software
    designed to help our customers manage and grow their business
    operations.

Our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and
    integrated software solutions that improve transactional
    efficiencies, adapt to an organization s unique needs and
    allow better ways to access and manage information at a lower
    total cost of ownership. We seek to be an industry leader in
    each of the specific product categories in which we compete and
    to expand into new and emerging markets.

We believe our internal or organic growth and continued
    innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and
    applications technologies provide the foundation for our
    long-term strategic plan. In fiscal 2008, we invested
    $2.7 billion on research and development to enhance our
    existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new
    products, features and services.

An active acquisition program is another important element of
    our corporate strategy. Over the last four fiscal years, we have
    invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in
    fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of complementary companies,
    products, services and technologies such as BEA Systems, Inc. in
    fiscal 2008, Hyperion Solutions Corporation in fiscal 2007,
    Siebel Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2006 and PeopleSoft, Inc. in
    fiscal 2005. We believe our acquisition program supports our
    long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive
    position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to
    accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and
    increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire
    companies, products, services and technologies.

Oracle Corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a Delaware
    corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun
    in June 1977.

Software
    and Services  

We are organized into two businesses, software and services,
    which are further divided into five operating segments. Our
    software business is comprised of two operating segments:
    (1) new software licenses and (2) software license
    updates and product support. Our services business is comprised
    of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) On
    Demand and (3) education. Our software and services
    businesses represented 80% and 20% of our total revenues,
    respectively, in both fiscal 2008 and 2006, and 79% and 21% of
    our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. See
    Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information related to our operating segments.

1

Table of Contents   

Software
    Business   

New
    Software Licenses   

New software licenses include the licensing of database and
    middleware software, which consists of Oracle Databases and
    Oracle Fusion Middleware, as well as applications software. Our
    technology and business solutions are based on an internet model
    comprised of interconnected databases, application servers, as
    well as mobile devices. This architecture enables users to
    access business data and applications through a web browser
    interface, while providing customers the most efficient and cost
    effective method of managing business information and
    applications.

In an internet model, database servers manage and protect the
    underlying business information, while application servers run
    the business applications that automate a myriad of business
    functions. We have focused on concepts such as global single
    instance application deployment that involve fewer, high quality
    databases of important business information. Our architecture
    provides high quality business information and can be adapted to
    the specific needs of any industry or application. Oracle
    technology operates on both single server and clustered server
    configurations, which we refer to as  grid  software,
    and supports a choice of operating systems including Linux,
    Windows and UNIX.

New software license revenues include fees earned from granting
    customers licenses to use our software products and exclude
    revenues derived from software license updates and product
    support. The standard end user software license agreement for
    our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in
    perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users
    or other metrics. We also have other types of software license
    agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license
    term. New software license revenues represented 34%, 33% and 34%
    of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Database
    and Middleware Software  

Our database and middleware software provides a cost-effective,
    high-performance platform for running and managing business
    applications for mid-size businesses and large global
    enterprises. With an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing
    their total cost of information technology (IT) infrastructure,
    our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop
    business environments, using clusters of low cost servers and
    storage that can incrementally scale as required. The ability to
    assign computing resources as required simplifies our
    customers  computing capacity, planning and procurement in
    order to support all of their business applications. With an
    Oracle grid infrastructure, our customers can lower their
    investment in IT hardware, reduce their risk of IT
    infrastructure downtime and more easily cope with sudden
    increases in demand on their IT environments during high traffic
    periods. New software license revenues from database and
    middleware products represented 68%, 71% and 73% of our new
    software license revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

Databases  

As the world s most popular database, Oracle Database
    enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all
    forms of data, including business application and analytics
    data, and unstructured data in the form of XML files, office
    documents, images, video and spatial data. Designed for
    enterprise grid computing, the Oracle Database is available in
    four editions: Express Edition, Standard Edition One, Standard
    Edition and Enterprise Edition. All editions are built using the
    same underlying code, which means that our database software can
    easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of
    multi-processor servers.

Options to Oracle Database Enterprise Edition are available to
    meet specific requirements in the areas of performance and
    scalability, high availability, data security and compliance,
    data warehousing, unstructured data integration and systems
    management. Examples of these options include:

Oracle Real Application Clusters, which consolidates a single,
    scalable and fault tolerant database that is shared across
    interconnected clusters of servers;

Oracle Partitioning, which breaks down large transaction
    processing and business intelligence database tables into
    smaller segments for faster query performance and easier
    management of data throughout its lifecycle;

2

Table of Contents   

Oracle Warehouse Builder Enterprise and Data Quality Options,
    which help customers design, build and populate data warehouses
    with reliable, quality information from a variety of legacy
    repositories; and

Oracle In-Memory Database Cache, a new option that improves
    application performance by caching or storing performance
    critical parts of Oracle Database in the main memory of the
    application tier.

In addition to the four editions of Oracle Database, Oracle also
    offers a selection of specialized databases:

Oracle TimesTen In-Memory Database, which is a memory-optimized
    relational database that delivers low latency and high
    throughput for applications requiring real-time performance;

Oracle Berkeley DB, which is a family of open source,
    embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to
    incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within
    their applications; and

Oracle Database Lite, which is a comprehensive solution for
    developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and
    embedded environments. It consists of a small footprint
    relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a
    mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices
    and Oracle Database, and mobile application development tools.

We also offer products that are complementary to our database
    product offerings, including Oracle Enterprise Manager and
    Oracle Audit Vault.

Enterprise
    Manager

Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to deliver top-down
    applications and software infrastructure management. Our
    customers use Oracle Enterprise Manager to monitor and manage
    their applications and underlying software infrastructure,
    including both Oracle and non-Oracle infrastructure products.
    Oracle Enterprise Manager can be used to manage packaged
    applications, such as Siebel, PeopleSoft, Oracle
     E-Business 
    Suite or custom applications including Service-Oriented
    Architecture applications. In addition to managing Oracle
    software infrastructure products including the Oracle Database
    and Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Enterprise Manager also
    supports our recently acquired BEA Web Logic Server middleware
    product and other third-party infrastructure products.

Oracle Enterprise Manager is designed to monitor service levels
    and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration
    information, and provide change management in a unified way
    across groups of computers or grids. Oracle Enterprise
    Manager s provisioning automates the discovery, tracking
    and scheduling of software patches and allows IT administrators
    to apply patches without taking their system down. Additionally,
    IT administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an
    HTML browser or through wireless PDAs.

Audit Vault

Oracle Audit Vault reduces the cost and complexity of compliance
    reporting and of detection of unauthorized activities by
    automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise audit
    data. Oracle Database provides one of the most advanced auditing
    capabilities of any database management system. With Audit
    Vault, security and database administrators can manage audit
    policies across their enterprise and automatically collect audit
    data into a centralized, tamper resistant repository. This
    secure repository is built on Oracle s scalable
    architecture to allow retention and aggregation of terabytes of
    audit data for analysis and reporting. Audit Vault analyzes
    audit data in real-time based upon enterprise defined policies,
    issues alerts for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in
    reports for demonstrating the IT controls required to comply
    with internal control assessments, including provisions of the
    U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley Act and other data privacy and
    protection regulations.

Middleware  

Oracle Fusion Middleware is a broad product family that forms a
    reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build,
    deploy and integrate business applications and automate their
    business processes. Oracle Fusion Middleware includes:

Oracle Application Server;

Oracle Business Intelligence Suite;

Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite;

3

Table of Contents   

Oracle Enterprise Content Management Suite;

Oracle WebCenter;

Oracle JDeveloper and Oracle Service-Oriented Architecture
    Suite; and

Oracle Data Integration Suite.

Oracle Fusion Middleware is designed to protect customers 
    IT investments and work with both Oracle and non-Oracle
    database, middleware and applications products through its
     hot-pluggable  architecture (which enables customers
    to easily install and use Oracle Fusion Middleware products
    within their existing IT environments) and adherence to industry
    standards such as J2EE and Business Process Execution Language
    (BPEL).

By using Oracle Fusion Middleware, our customers increase their
    capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their
    risks related to security and compliance, increase user
    productivity and drive better business decisions. Specifically,
    Oracle Fusion Middleware enables customers to easily integrate
    heterogeneous business applications, automate business
    processes, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles
    of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence,
    while continuing to utilize their existing IT systems. In
    addition, Oracle Fusion Middleware supports multiple development
    languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy
    web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications.
    Oracle s Fusion Middleware is used to support Oracle
    applications, as well as other enterprise applications and
    independent software vendors that build their own custom
    applications.

On April 29, 2008, we acquired BEA, a leading provider of
    enterprise application and service infrastructure software
    solutions. Our acquisition of BEA further strengthened our
    leading technology in certain product areas within Oracle Fusion
    Middleware such as Java application server (WebLogic Server),
    transaction processing (Tuxedo), portal and Enterprise 2.0
    capabilities, Service-Oriented Architecture, IT governance and
    business process management. Our acquisition of BEA also
    increased the number of Java developers building applications
    for our middleware products. Additionally, BEA s business
    is complementary to other product areas within Oracle Fusion
    Middleware such as identity management, business intelligence
    and enterprise content management.

Application
    Server

The foundation of Oracle Fusion Middleware is Oracle Application
    Server. Designed for grid computing, Oracle Application Server
    incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases
    application reliability, performance, security and scalability.
    Oracle Application Server also provides a complete integration
    platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business,
    application and data integration projects. Our recent
    acquisition of BEA enables us to provide our customers with
    additional open-standards Java-based application infrastructure
    products such as WebLogic Server and scalable messaging and
    transaction processing platform products such as Tuxedo.

Business
    Intelligence

Oracle Business Intelligence (BI) provides visibility into how
    customers  businesses are performing and helps them plan
    and model to improve that performance. BI is a portfolio of
    technology and applications that provides an integrated
    end-to-end system called Enterprise Performance Management (EPM)
    that unites our BI foundation and data warehousing products with
    our BI and EPM applications (described further below) to offer
    our customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform.

Our BI foundation products include Oracle BI
    Suite Enterprise Edition Plus, Oracle BI Standard Edition
    One, Hyperion Essbase and Oracle BI Publisher. Our BI foundation
    products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business
    intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc
    query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced
    reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence,
    mobile analytics and desktop gadgets.

Our data warehousing products enable the extraction,
    transformation and loading of quality data in order for that
    data to be accurately searched and analyzed.

4

Table of Contents   

Identity and
    Access Management Suite

The Oracle Identity and Access Management suite makes it easier
    for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision
    users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage
    access privileges for customers, employees and partners. Our
    customers use Oracle Identity and Access Management Suite to
    secure their information from potential threats. In addition,
    our customers also use Oracle Identity and Access Management
    Suite to increase compliance levels, while lowering the total
    cost of their compliance efforts.

Enterprise
    Content Management Suite

Unstructured information, which is data that is not easily
    readable or has not been stored so that it can be used
    efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information
    residing in most businesses and public sector entities. Oracle
    Enterprise Content Management Suite provides a comprehensive set
    of capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and
    collaborate on, archive, retain, manage business process flows
    and manage information access rights to documents and other
    unstructured content file types. Oracle Enterprise Content
    Management Suite supports an extensive set of document and image
    formats. Our Web Content Management product s capabilities
    also enable customers to use external facing websites as
    strategic marketing assets and rapid communications channels.

WebCenter

Oracle WebCenter enables personalized, task-oriented web
    applications and portal sites to be rapidly developed and
    deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. Our
    customers can assemble portal sites using page regions or
    portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide
    access to web-based resources such as applications, business
    intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced
    software services. Oracle WebCenter also includes integrated
    Enterprise 2.0 capabilities, which enable customers to work
    together in teams via the internet and capitalize on
     collective intelligence  within their enterprise and
    with their partners and customers.

JDeveloper

Oracle JDeveloper is an integrated software development
    environment designed to facilitate rapid development of Java
    applications, portlets, web services, process models and Rich
    Internet Applications (RIA) such as Flash and AJAX, among
    others. Oracle JDeveloper provides a comprehensive Java
    development environment for modeling, building, debugging and
    testing enterprise-class J2EE applications and web
    services. It is also integrated with the Oracle Application
    Development Framework, which provides a framework for building
    applications, including a set of components that enable
    developers to build RIA based on Java user interface standards
    and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern RIA
    technologies.

Service-Oriented
    Architecture Suite

Service-Oriented Architecture (SOA) is an information technology
    strategy which allows users to interface with Internet-based
    portals and composite applications, which in turn interface with
    several enterprise applications. Oracle SOA Suite is a complete
    set of service infrastructure components for creating,
    deploying, and managing SOAs, including Oracle JDeveloper,
    Oracle BPEL Process Manager, Oracle Web Services Manager, Oracle
    Business Rules, Oracle Business Activity Monitoring, and Oracle
    Enterprise Service Bus. Oracle SOA Suite enables services to be
    created, managed and orchestrated into composite applications
    and reconfigurable business processes, reducing development time
    and costs and increasing flexibility and response time. Oracle
    SOA Suite is  hot-pluggable , enabling customers to
    easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of
    replacing existing investments.

Data
    Integration Suite

Through Oracle Data Integration Suite, we offer best-of-breed
    and unified data integration technologies that enable customers
    to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. Our Data
    Integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to
    unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into
    enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes.
    With our open and  hot-pluggable  data integration
    components, organizations can continue to

5

Table of Contents   

use and evolve their IT infrastructure instead of replacing it.
    The Data Integration Suite can extract data from one system and
    load it into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly
    transform the data into a new format. It also includes
    technology to address data quality and data profiling.

Applications
    Software  

Our applications software strategy is designed to provide
    customers with complete, integrated and open solutions for
    industry business process automation, supported by a robust,
    standards-based technology platform. Central to that strategy is
    our commitment to offer customers that purchase software license
    updates and product support contracts a choice as to when they
    wish to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own.
    Until our customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next
    generation of the products they own, we protect their
    investments in their applications by offering them the ability
    to purchase software license updates and product support
    contracts for their existing products. New technologies such as
    Oracle Fusion Middleware, Oracle Business Intelligence Suite,
    and Oracle WebCenter are designed to help customers extend the
    benefits of their IT investments in our applications, to reduce
    their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the
    next generation of enterprise software that best fits their
    needs.

Our applications software products combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based
    analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and
    workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business
    intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity.
    Our applications software products enable efficient management
    of all core business functions, including:

Customer relationship management (CRM)

Enterprise performance management (EPM)

Enterprise resource planning (ERP)

Product lifecycle management (PLM), and

Industry-specific applications.

Our applications software products are offered as integrated
    suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on
    open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration
    and open, multi-vendor integration. Our applications are
    available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of
    location specific requirements, enabling companies to support
    both global and local business practices and legal requirements.

Oracle Application Integration Architecture provides an open,
    standards-based framework for creating adaptable,
    cross-application business processes. For customers looking to
    quickly deploy integrations between Oracle applications, Oracle
    Application Integration Architecture also offers packaged
    integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of
    mission-critical business applications.

Customer
    Relationship Management (CRM)

We offer a complete set of CRM applications that manage all of
    the business processes and associated systems that touch a
    customer, including:

Billing and delivery;

Sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer
    and supply chain information; and

Service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by
    providing visibility into customer billing and order information.

Enterprise
    Performance Management (EPM)

We offer a full spectrum of EPM applications that are open,
    industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such
    as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality
    for delivering insight across the enterprise. Our business
    analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving
    customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business
    intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into a
    customer s operations and financial performance. With our
    acquisition of Hyperion in fiscal 2007, we added complementary
    products to our business

6

Table of Contents   

intelligence offerings, including a leading open enterprise
    planning system, financial consolidation products, and a
    multi-source OLAP server. Our acquisition of Hyperion combined
    with our BI analytics, BI foundation and data warehousing
    products enable us to offer our customers an integrated,
    end-to-end EPM system that spans planning, consolidation,
    operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools,
    reporting and data integration, all on a unified business
    intelligence platform.

Enterprise
    Resource Planning (ERP)

Companies use our ERP applications to automate and integrate a
    variety of their key global business processes, including:
    manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable,
    general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and
    human resources. Our ERP applications combine business
    functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and
    self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower
    the cost of their business operations by providing their
    customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet
    access to both transaction processing and critical business
    information. Our ERP applications are available in multiple
    languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both
    global and local business practices and legal requirements.

Product
    Lifecycle Management (PLM)

With our acquisition of Agile Software Corporation in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2008, we added PLM software solutions. Our PLM
    solutions manage the product innovation and introduction process
    in a variety of industries, including high technology, life
    sciences, industrial manufacturing and consumer packaged goods.
    Our PLM solutions help customers make better product portfolio
    decisions, collaborate across design and supply chain partners,
    accelerate new product introduction and manage compliance.

Industry
    Applications

Our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of
    industry-specific solutions. As a part of our strategy, we
    strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the
    major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in
    key industries. With our acquisition of Siebel, we gained
    expertise in the vertical markets in which Siebel offered
    industry solutions. We have also expanded our offerings in a
    number of other key industries we view as strategic to our
    future growth:

Retail, with our acquisitions of Retek, Inc., ProfitLogic, Inc.
    and several other companies;

Banking and financial services, with our acquisition of i-flex
    solutions limited;

Communications, with our acquisitions of Portal Software, Inc.
    and MetaSolv, Inc.; and

Utilities, with our acquisition of Lodestar Corporation and SPL
    WorldGroup, Inc.

These acquired industry applications are in addition to industry
    applications we developed for health sciences, insurance,
    manufacturing, education, professional services and the public
    sector.

We are currently building Oracle Fusion Applications, which are
    being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all
    Oracle applications in a complete suite. We believe this suite
    of applications will deliver a superior ownership experience
    through improved usability, adaptive business process
    automation, built-in business intelligence and industry-specific
    capabilities.

New software license revenues from applications software
    represented 32%, 29% and 27% of new software license revenues in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Software
    License Updates and Product Support   

We seek to protect and enhance our customers  current
    investments in Oracle technology and applications by offering
    lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. Software
    license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified
    software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches
    released during the term of the support period. Product support
    includes internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel located in our global support centers, as well as
    internet access to technical content. Software license updates
    and product

7

Table of Contents   

support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software
    license fees. Substantially all of our customers purchase
    software license updates and product support when they acquire
    new software licenses. In addition, substantially all of our
    customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually. We also offer Oracle Unbreakable
    Linux Support, which provides enterprise level support for the
    Linux operating system and, in fiscal 2008, we introduced
    support for Oracle VM server virtualization software.

Our software license updates and product support revenues
    represented 46% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Services
    Business    

Consulting   

Oracle Consulting assists our customers in successfully
    deploying our applications and technology products. Our
    consulting services include business strategy and analysis;
    business process optimization; product implementation,
    enhancements, and upgrades; and ongoing managed services. These
    services help our customers achieve measurable business results,
    manage their total cost of ownership and reduce their deployment
    risk.

Oracle Consulting deploys professionals globally utilizing our
    blended delivery capabilities, including use of onsite
    consultants and personnel from our global delivery centers and
    applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale
    for our customers. Consulting revenues represented 15%, 16% and
    15% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively.

On
    Demand   

On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced
    Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured
    software and hardware management, and maintenance services for
    customers that deploy over the internet our database, middleware
    and applications software delivered either at our data center
    facilities, at select partner data centers or at customer
    facilities. CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides
    our customers with our CRM software functionality delivered via
    a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. Advanced Customer
    Services consists of solution support centers, business critical
    assistance, technical account management, expert services,
    configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and
    annual
     on-site 
    technical services. On Demand revenues represented 3% of total
    revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006.

Education   

We provide training to customers, partners and employees as a
    part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our
    technology around the world. We currently offer thousands of
    courses covering all of our product offerings. Our training is
    provided primarily through public and private instructor-led
    classroom events, but is also made available through a variety
    of online courses and self paced media training on CD-ROMs. In
    addition, we also offer a certification program certifying
    database administrators, developers and implementers. Oracle
    University also offers user adoption services designed to
    provide comprehensive training services to help customers get
    the most out of their investment in Oracle. Our acquisition of
    BEA further enhanced our educational offerings in middleware.
    Education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006.

Marketing
    and Sales  

Sales
    Distribution Channels   

We directly market and sell our products and services primarily
    through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. In the
    United States our sales and service employees are based in our
    headquarters and in field offices throughout the United States.
    Outside the United States, our international subsidiaries
    license and support our products in their local countries as
    well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate
    through a direct sales subsidiary.

We also market our products worldwide through indirect channels.
    The companies that comprise our indirect channel network are
    members of the Oracle PartnerNetwork. The Oracle PartnerNetwork
    is a global program that

8

Table of Contents   

manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based
    network of companies, including independent software vendors,
    system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative
    solutions and services based upon our products. By offering our
    partners  access to our premier products, educational
    information, technical services, marketing and sales support,
    the Oracle PartnerNetwork program extends our market reach by
    providing our partners with the resources they need to be
    successful in delivering solutions to customers globally.

International
    Markets   

We sell our products and provide services globally. Our
    geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical
    expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our
    operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific
    economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage
    of new markets for our products. A summary of our domestic and
    international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in
    Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Seasonality
    and Cyclicality   

Our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale
    of our products and services, as our revenues are typically
    highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first
    fiscal quarter. General economic conditions also have an impact
    on our business and financial results. The markets in which we
    sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak
    economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues.
    See  Selected Quarterly Financial Data  in Item 7
    of this Annual Report for a more complete description of the
    seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues and expenses.

Customers   

Our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses
    of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. No single customer accounted for 10%
    or more of revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Competition  

The enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely
    competitive and evolving rapidly. We compete in various segments
    of this industry including, but not limited to:

database software;

middleware (including application server, business intelligence,
    application integration, content management, portal server and
    identity management);

collaboration;

development tools;

enterprise applications;

software as a service;

hosted and On Demand solutions;

operating systems;

virtualization software; and

consulting/systems integration.

Total cost of ownership, performance, scalability,
    functionality, ease of use, open standards-compliance, product
    reliability, Service-Oriented Architecture, security and quality
    of technical support are key competitive factors in each of the
    areas in which we compete. Our customers are also demanding less
    complexity and lower cost in the implementation, sourcing,
    integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise
    software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings
    (database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a
     stack  of software designed to work together.

9

Table of Contents   

Our product sales (and the relative strength of our products
    versus our competitors  products) are also affected by the
    broader  platform  competition between industry
    standard Java (J2EE) by Sun Microsystems, Inc. (Sun
    Microsystems) and Microsoft Corporation s .NET programming
    environments and by operating system competition among
    Microsoft s Windows Server, Unix (Sun Microsystem s
    Solaris, Hewlett Packard Company s (HP)-UX and
    International Business Machines Corporation s (IBM)-AIX)
    and Linux. Open source alternatives to commercial software are
    also impacting the competitive environment. These products are
    typically offered free of charge and are readily available over
    the internet. Finally, software-as-a-service (SaaS) offerings
    continue to alter the competitive landscape.

The following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete
    due to the nature of the enterprise software industry. The
    competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge,
    expand, are acquired and otherwise change.

In the sale of database software, scalability, reliability,
    availability and security are key competitive differentiators
    for us. Our competitors include IBM, Microsoft, Sybase, Inc.,
    NCR Corporation s Teradata division, SAS Institute, Inc.,
    Informatica Corporation, and the open source databases such as
    MySQL (recently acquired by Sun Microsystems) and PostgreSQL,
    among others. Our ability to continually innovate and
    differentiate our database product offerings has enabled us to
    maintain our leading position in database software over our
    competitors.

In the sale of middleware products, our offerings include
    application server, business intelligence, application
    integration, business process management, Service-Oriented
    Architecture, collaboration and content management, portal, and
    identity management software. Our ability to offer a full range
    of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture
    has been a key competitive differentiator. Our competitors
    include IBM, Microsoft, SAP AG, Sun Microsystems, Progress
    Software, Fujitsu Software Corporation, Hitachi Software
    Engineering Co., Ltd., open source vendors such as Red Hat, Inc.
    (JBoss), Apache Geronimo, and Netezza Corporation, as well as
    several other competitors in each element of our packaged
    functions such as TIBCO Software, Inc., Software AG, Savvion,
    Inc., Microstrategy, Inc., CA, Inc., Informatica, Novell, Inc.,
    Lombardi Software, Inc. and Pegasystems, Inc., among others. Our
    middleware solutions have experienced rapid growth in recent
    years relative to our competitors.

In the sale of collaboration and content management products, we
    compete with Microsoft, IBM (Domino/Notes/FileNet), EMC
    Corporation (Documentum), Open Text Corporation, Interwoven,
    Inc., HP (Tower Software) and Vignette Corporation, among others.

In the sale of development tools, ease of use,
    standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated
    code generation) are key competitive differentiators. We compete
    against IBM (WebSphere Studio), Microsoft (VisualStudio.NET),
    Sun Microsystems (Sun Studio), Sybase (PowerBuilder) and others,
    including Eclipse Foundation, Inc. (Eclipse), an open source
    vendor. The success of our development tools is closely related
    to the relative popularity of our platform (database and
    middleware) compared to our competitors as well as the larger
    competition between Java and Microsoft s .NET.

The sale of applications software, in particular, is changing
    rapidly due to the development and deployment of
    Service-Oriented Architectures and web services, application
    integration middleware as well as software as a service
    offerings. As a result of our acquisitions of PeopleSoft and
    Siebel, we currently offer several product lines that are suited
    for different needs of customers in different industries. One of
    the main competitive differentiators in applications software is
    our ability to combine best-of-breed software, Suite software
    and our Application Integration Architecture, while shielding
    the end user from complexities. We compete against SAP AG,
    Lawson Software, Inc., Infor Global Solutions GmbH (SSA Global
    Technologies, Extensity), Microsoft Dynamics (Dynamics GP,
    Dynamics NAV, Dynamics CRM, Dynamics Snap, Dynamics SL), Sage,
    Inc., and IBM (Maximo, MOR Software, Ascential Software) as well
    as many other application providers and point solution providers.

We also provide applications specific to operations in
    particular industry verticals, such as retailing, financial
    services, communications, tax and utilities, health sciences,
    public sector and others. These applications are distinguished
    from enterprise resource planning (ERP) or customer relationship
    management (CRM) in that these industry-specific applications
    are focused on and limited to particular industry segments, as
    opposed to being designed for broad distribution across several
    industries. We typically compete with commercial software
    vendors  pre-packaged applications, applications developed
    in-house by customers, applications which were custom developed
    by other software vendors and applications consisting of
    discrete pieces of functionality from multiple

10

Table of Contents   

providers which have been customized and implemented by systems
    integrators. In some of these industries, complete industry
    solutions either do not exist or are addressed by dozens of
    software participants.

With service-oriented architecture, our packaged applications
    also compete with custom solutions developed either in-house or
    by large systems integrators such as Accenture Ltd. or IBM
    Global Services.

Our applications also compete against business process
    outsourcers including Automatic Data Processing, Inc., Fidelity
    Investments, Ceridian Corporation, Hewitt-Cyborg Limited and
    others.

In the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and
    service offering for Red Hat s open source Linux operating
    system in fiscal 2007. This placed us in competition with others
    who offer support for the Linux operating system, including Red
    Hat, Novell and Canonical Ltd. (Ubuntu); with IBM, Sun
    Microsystems, HP and others in the sale of Unix operating
    systems; and with Microsoft in the sale of Windows Server
    operating systems.

In the sale of virtualization products, we compete with VMware,
    Inc., IBM, Microsoft, Sun Microsystems and Citrix Systems, Inc.,
    among others, including other vendors of open source
    virtualization products.

In the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we
    both partner with and compete against Accenture, Electronic Data
    Systems Corporation (to be acquired by HP), IBM Global Services,
    Bearing Point, Inc., CapGemini Group, and many others (both
    large and small).

In the sale of many of our products, we also compete with
    products and features developed internally by customers and
    their IT staff.

Research
    and Development  

We develop the substantial majority of our products internally.
    In addition, we have acquired technology through business
    acquisitions. We also purchase or license intellectual property
    rights in certain circumstances. Internal development allows us
    to maintain technical control over the design and development of
    our products. We have a number of United States and foreign
    patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects
    of our products and technology. While we believe that our
    patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to
    any of our principal business segments.

Research and development expenditures were $2.7 billion,
    $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion, or 12%, 12% and 13% of
    total revenues, in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As
    a percentage of new software license revenues, research and
    development expenditures were 36%, 37% and 38% in fiscal 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. Rapid technological advances in
    hardware and software development, evolving standards in
    computer hardware and software technology, changing customer
    needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements
    characterize the software markets in which we compete. We plan
    on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to
    research and development efforts to maintain and improve our
    current product offerings including our database, middleware and
    applications software products.

Employees  

As of May 31, 2008, we employed 84,233 full-time
    employees, including 19,465 in sales and marketing, 7,642 in
    software license updates and product support, 28,215 in
    services, 20,607 in research and development and 8,304 in
    general and administrative positions. Of these employees, 28,079
    were located in the United States and 56,154 were employed
    internationally. None of our employees in the United States is
    represented by a labor union; however, in certain international
    subsidiaries workers  councils represent our employees.

Available
    Information  

Our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    Quarterly Reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    Current Reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to reports filed pursuant to Sections 13(a)
    and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
    are available, free of charge, on our Investor Relations web
    site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably
    practicable after we electronically file such material with, or
    furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. The
    information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this
    Annual Report.

11

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Our executive officers are listed below.

Name 

Office(s) 

Lawrence J. Ellison

Chief Executive Officer and Director

Jeffrey O. Henley

Chairman of the Board of Directors

Safra A. Catz

President, Chief Financial Officer and Director

Charles E. Phillips, Jr. 

President and Director

Keith G. Block

Executive Vice President, North America Sales and Consulting

Sergio Giacoletto

Executive Vice President, Europe, Middle East and Africa Sales
    and Consulting

Juergen Rottler

Executive Vice President, Oracle Customer Services

Charles A. Rozwat

Executive Vice President, Product Development

Derek H. Williams

Executive Vice President, Japan Sales and Consulting

Dorian E. Daley

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

William Corey West

Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer

Mr. Ellison, 63, has been Chief Executive Officer and a
    Director since he founded Oracle in June 1977. He served as
    Chairman of the Board from May 1995 to January 2004.

Mr. Henley, 63, has served as the Chairman of the Board
    since January 2004 and as a director since June 1995. He served
    as an Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from
    March 1991 to July 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Callwave, Inc.

Ms. Catz, 46, has been Chief Financial Officer since
    November 2005 and a President since January 2004. She has served
    as a Director since October 2001. She was Interim Chief
    Financial Officer from April 2005 until July 2005. She served as
    an Executive Vice President from November 1999 to January 2004
    and Senior Vice President from April 1999 to October 1999. She
    also serves as a director of HSBC Holdings plc.

Mr. Phillips, 49, has been a President and has served as a
    Director since January 2004. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Strategy, Partnerships, and Business Development,
    from May 2003 to January 2004. He also serves as a director of
    Morgan Stanley and Viacom, Inc.

Mr. Block, 47, has been Executive Vice President, North
    America Sales and Consulting since September 2002 and Executive
    Vice President, North America Consulting since February 2002. He
    served as Senior Vice President of North America Commercial
    Consulting and Global Service Lines from June 1999 until January
    2002. He served as Senior Vice President of the Commercial
    Consulting Practice from April 1999 until May 1999.
    Mr. Block was Group Vice President, East Consulting from
    June 1997 until March 1999.

Mr. Giacoletto, 58, has been Executive Vice President,
    Europe, Middle East and Africa Sales and Consulting since June
    2000 and served as Senior Vice President, Business Solutions
    from November 1998 to June 2000. He was Vice President,
    Alliances and Technology from March 1997 to November 1998.
    Before joining us, he had been President of AT T Solutions
    for Europe since August 1994.

Mr. Rottler, 41, has been Executive Vice President, Oracle
    Customer Services since September 2006. He was Executive Vice
    President, Oracle Support and Oracle On Demand, from January
    2005 to September 2006 and was Executive Vice President, Oracle
    On Demand, from September 2004 to January 2005. Prior to joining
    us, he served as Senior Vice President, Public Sector, Customer
    Solutions Group at Hewlett-Packard Company (HP), from December
    2003 to September 2004, where he was responsible for HP s
    worldwide Public Sector, Health and Education business. He also
    held various other global and regional executive positions in
    HP s Services and Software business units since 1997.

Mr. Rozwat, 60, has been Executive Vice President, Product
    Development, since October 2007. He served as Executive Vice
    President, Server Technologies from November 1999 to October
    2007 and served as Senior Vice President, Database Server from
    December 1996 to October 1999. He served as Vice President of
    Development from December 1994 to November 1996.

12

Table of Contents   

Mr. Williams, 63, has been Executive Vice President, Japan
    Sales and Consulting since June 2008 and was Executive Vice
    President, Asia Pacific Sales and Consulting from October 2000
    to May 2008. He served as Senior Vice President, Asia Pacific
    from July 1993 to October 2000 and as Vice President, Asia
    Pacific from April 1991 to July 1993. He joined Oracle United
    Kingdom in October 1988 and served as Regional Director,
    Strategic Accounts from October 1988 to April 1991.

Ms. Daley, 49, has been Senior Vice President, General
    Counsel and Secretary since October 2007. She served as Vice
    President, Legal, Associate General Counsel and Assistant
    Secretary from June 2004 to October 2007, as Associate General
    Counsel and Assistant Secretary from October 2001 to June 2004,
    and as Associate General Counsel from February 2001 to October
    2001. She joined Oracle s Legal Department in 1992.

Mr. West, 46, has been Senior Vice President, Corporate
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since February 2008 and
    was Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer from April 2007 to February 2008. Prior to joining us,
    he served as Intuit Inc. s Director of Accounting from
    August 2005 to March 2007, as The Gap, Inc. s Assistant
    Controller from April 2005 to August 2005, and as Vice
    President, Finance, at Cadence Design Systems, Inc. s
    product business from June 2001 to April 2005. He also spent
    14 years with Arthur Andersen LLP, most recently as a
    partner.

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors  

We operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological
    environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are
    driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. The
    following discussion, as well as our  Critical Accounting
    Policies and Estimates  discussion in Item 7,
    highlights some of these risks.

Economic, political and market conditions can adversely
    affect our revenue growth and
    profitability.    Our business is influenced by
    a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have
    no comparative advantage in forecasting. These include:

general economic and business conditions;

the overall demand for enterprise software and services;

governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government
    spending priorities; and

general political developments.

A general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in,
    the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate
    spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. In
    addition, the war on terrorism, the war in Iraq and the
    potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world,
    potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to
    contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty
    that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of
    operations. These factors generally have the strongest effect on
    our sales of software licenses and related services and, to a
    lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software
    license updates and product support.

We may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to
    inaccurate sales forecasts or other
    factors.    Our revenues, and particularly our
    new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and,
    as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate
    substantially. We use a  pipeline  system, a common
    industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business.
    Our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and
    estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the
    dollar amount of the sale. These estimates are aggregated
    periodically to generate a sales pipeline. Our pipeline
    estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular
    quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the
     conversion rate  of the pipeline into contracts can
    be very difficult to estimate. A contraction in the conversion
    rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or
    budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results
    of operations. In particular, a slowdown in IT spending or
    economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in
    particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced
    in amount or cancelled. The conversion rate can also be affected
    by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end
    of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable
    terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and
    execute these contracts in a timely manner. In addition, for
    newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how
    their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or
    two quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion
    rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their
    historical conversion rate.

13

Table of Contents   

A substantial portion of our new software license revenue
    contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a
    significant percentage of these are large orders. Because our
    cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue
    shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on
    our profitability. The number of large new software license
    transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our
    quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of
    these transactions could cause our quarterly new software
    licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions.

Our success depends upon our ability to develop new
    products and services, integrate acquired products and services
    and enhance our existing products and
    services.    Rapid technological advances and
    evolving standards in computer hardware, software development
    and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly
    sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product
    introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise
    software market in which we compete. If we are unable to develop
    new products and services, or to enhance and improve our
    products and support services in a timely manner or to position
     and/or  price
    our products and services to meet market demand, customers may
    not buy new software licenses or renew software license updates
    and product support. In addition, IT standards from both
    consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de
    facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. We cannot
    provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to
    develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for
    business opportunities in emerging areas.

We are developing a next generation applications platform called
    Oracle Fusion Applications that is planned to combine the best
    features, flows and usability traits of our existing and
    acquired applications. We have also announced that we intend to
    extend the life of many of our acquired applications and will
    continue to provide long-term support for our acquired products,
    both of which require us to dedicate resources. If we do not
    develop and release these new or enhanced products and services
    within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in
    market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or
    service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product
    lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate,
    support or enhance acquired application lines or services, our
    business may be adversely affected.

Acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize
    the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the
    time of any transaction.    In the past four
    fiscal years, we have invested billions of dollars, including
    $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of
    companies, products, services and technologies. An active
    acquisition program is an important element of our overall
    corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make similar
    acquisitions in the future. Risks we may face in connection with
    our acquisition program include:

our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management s
    attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or
    integration activities;

an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we
    expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company or assets
    are worth;

our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the
    problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an
    acquired company or technology, including issues with the
    company s intellectual property, product quality or product
    architecture, revenue recognition or other accounting practices
    or employee, customer or partner issues;

we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax
    benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our
    integration activities;

we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a
    larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew
    software license updates and product support, if we are unable
    to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if
    contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to
    recognize revenues on a timely basis;

we may assume pre-existing contractual relationships of acquired
    companies that we would not have otherwise entered into, and
    exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to us or
    disruptive to customers;

we may face litigation or other claims in connection with, or
    may inherit claims or litigation risk as a result of, an
    acquisition, including claims from terminated employees,
    customers, former stockholders or other third parties;

14

Table of Contents   

our relationship with current and new employees, customers,
    partners and distributors could be impaired;

we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or
    products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform
    standards, controls, procedures and policies;

we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result
    of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported
    differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays;

we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support
    and development of acquired products;

we may assume pre-existing liabilities, whether known or
    unknown, of acquired companies which could be material;

we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental
    authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely
    basis, if it all, which could, among other things, prevent us
    from completing a transaction;

we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial
    acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to
    complete the acquisition in a timely manner;

our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other
    potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and
    retirement of outstanding indebtedness;

we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and
    debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for
    an acquisition;

we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may
    otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or
    other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar
    bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an
    acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans
    in certain jurisdictions; and

to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity
    securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing
    stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease.

The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material
    adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial
    condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger
    acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions.

We may not be able to protect our intellectual property
    rights.    We rely on copyright, trademark,
    patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures,
    controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual
    property rights. Despite our efforts, these protections may be
    limited. Unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse
    engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use
    our intellectual property. Any patents owned by us may be
    invalidated, circumvented or challenged. Any of our pending or
    future patent applications, whether or not being currently
    challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we
    seek, if at all. In addition, the laws of some countries do not
    provide the same level of protection of our intellectual
    property rights as do the laws and courts of the United States.
    If we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against
    unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may
    not remain competitive.

Third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim
    infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights
     and/or 
    breach of license agreement provisions.    We
    periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed
    against us by, others claiming infringement, or other misuse of
    their intellectual property rights
     and/or 
    breach of our agreements with them. We expect the number of such
    claims will increase as:

we continue to acquire companies;

the number of products and competitors in our industry segments
    grows;

the functionality of products overlap;

the use and support of third-party code (including open source
    code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry; and

the volume of issued software patents continues to increase.

Responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could:

be time-consuming, costly
     and/or 
    result in litigation;

15

Table of Contents   

divert management s time and attention from developing our
    business;

require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and
    licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable;

require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our
    products;

require us to release source code to third parties, possibly
    under open source license terms;

require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our
    customers; or

otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations,
    financial condition or cash flows.

Specific patent infringement cases are discussed under
    Note 15 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We may need to change our pricing models to compete
    successfully.    The intense competition we face
    in the sales of our products and services and general economic
    and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our
    prices. If our competitors offer deep discounts on certain
    products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other
    favorable terms in order to compete successfully. Any such
    changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating
    results. Our software license updates and product support fees
    are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software
    license fees. Our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing
    on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us
    to further discount our new license prices.

Any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could
    cause new software license and services revenues to decline or
    be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers
    adjust to the new pricing policies. Some of our competitors may
    bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a
    long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and
    product implementations. These practices could, over time,
    significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for
    certain of our products. If we do not adapt our pricing models
    to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in
    customer demand, our new software license revenues could
    decrease. Additionally, increased distribution of applications
    through application service providers, including
    software-as-a-service (SaaS) providers, may reduce the average
    price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our
    products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can
    offset price reductions with volume increases or lower spending.
    The increase in open source software distribution may also cause
    us to change our pricing models.

We may be unable to compete effectively within the highly
    competitive software industry.    Many vendors
    develop and market databases, internet application server
    products, application development tools, business applications,
    collaboration products and business intelligence products that
    compete with our offerings. In addition, several companies offer
    business process outsourcing (BPO) as a competitive alternative
    to buying software and customer interest in BPO solutions is
    increasing. Some of these competitors have greater financial or
    technical resources than we do. Our competitors that offer
    business applications and middleware products may influence a
    customer s purchasing decision for the underlying database
    in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our
    products. We could lose customers if our competitors introduce
    new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire
    competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances
    with other companies. Vendors that offer BPO solutions may
    persuade our customers not to purchase our products. We may also
    face increasing competition from open source software
    initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and
    intellectual property for free. Existing or new competitors
    could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense.

Disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our
    future operating results.    Our indirect
    channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system
    integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers,
    internet service providers, network integrators and independent
    software vendors. Our relationships with these channel
    participants are important elements of our marketing and sales
    efforts. Our financial results could be adversely affected if
    our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our
    relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if
    any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with
    or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial
    condition of our channel participants were to weaken. There can
    be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining,
    expanding or developing our relationships with channel
    participants. If we are not successful, we may lose sales
    opportunities, customers and revenues.

Charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may
    adversely affect our operating results.    Under
    business combination accounting standards, we allocate the total
    purchase price to an acquired company s net tangible
    assets, intangible assets and in-process research and
    development based on their values as of the date of the

16

Table of Contents   

acquisition (including certain assets and liabilities that are
    recorded at fair value) and record the excess of the purchase
    price over those values as goodwill. Management s estimates
    of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be
    reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. After we complete
    an acquisition, the following factors could result in material
    charges that would adversely affect our operating results and
    may adversely affect our cash flows:

impairment of goodwill or intangible assets;

a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired;

identification of assumed contingent liabilities after we
    finalize the purchase price allocation period;

charges to our operating results to eliminate certain Oracle
    pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired
    company or to reduce our cost structure; and

charges to our operating results resulting from revised
    estimates to restructure an acquired company s operations
    after we finalize the purchase price allocation period.

Routine charges to our operating results associated with
    acquisitions include amortization of intangible assets,
    in-process research and development as well as other acquisition
    related charges, restructuring and stock-based compensation
    associated with assumed stock awards. Charges to our operating
    results in any given period could differ substantially from
    other periods based on the timing and size of our future
    acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. See
    Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations Supplemental
    Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains  for
    additional information about charges to earnings associated with
    our recent acquisitions.

We expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with
    combining the operations of our acquired companies, which may be
    substantial. Additional costs may include costs of employee
    redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary
    increases or bonuses, accelerated stock-based compensation
    expenses and severance payments, reorganization or closure of
    facilities, taxes, and termination of contracts that provide
    redundant or conflicting services. Some of these costs may have
    to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net
    income and earnings per share for the periods in which those
    adjustments are made.

In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    (FASB) issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business
    Combinations  (see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for a summary of Statement 141(R)).
    Statement 141(R) is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2010.
    We are in the process of evaluating the impact of the pending
    adoption of Statement 141(R) on our consolidated financial
    statements. We currently believe that the adoption of Statement
    141(R) will result in the recognition of certain types of
    expenses in our results of operations that we currently
    capitalize pursuant to existing accounting standards and may
    also impact our financial statements in other ways.

We may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we
    may lose key employees.    We rely on the
    continued service of our senior management, including our Chief
    Executive Officer, members of our executive team and other key
    employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. In the
    software industry, there is substantial and continuous
    competition for highly skilled business, product development,
    technical and other personnel. In addition, acquisitions could
    cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at
    Oracle. We may also experience increased compensation costs that
    are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices.
    We may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in
    retaining and motivating existing personnel. With rare
    exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or
    non-competition agreements with our employees. Members of our
    senior management team have left Oracle over the years for a
    variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not
    be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our
    operations.

We continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring
    personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is
    available at lower costs. When we make adjustments to our
    workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce
    reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce
    structure. We may also experience increased competition for
    employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization
    continues which may affect our employee retention efforts
     and/or 
    increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive
    compensation program.

17

Table of Contents   

Part of our total compensation program includes stock options.
    Stock options are an important tool in attracting and retaining
    employees in our industry. If our stock price performs poorly,
    it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract
    employees. In addition, because we expense all stock-based
    compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and
    other compensation practices. Some of the changes we consider
    from time to time include the reduction in the number of
    employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options
    granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of
    stock-based compensation. Any changes in our compensation
    practices or changes made by competitors could affect our
    ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit
    new personnel.

Our international sales and operations subject us to
    additional risks that can adversely affect our operating
    results.    We derive a substantial portion of
    our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the
    United States. Our international operations include software
    development, sales, customer support, consulting, On Demand and
    shared administrative service centers. We are subject to a
    variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization
    operating in various countries, including those related to:

general economic conditions in each country or region;

regulatory changes;

political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other
    hostilities;

public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have
    significant operations;

longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts
    receivable;

overlapping tax regimes;

fluctuations in currency exchange rates;

difficulties in transferring funds from certain
    countries; and

reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some
    countries.

In addition, compliance with international and U.S. laws
    and regulations that apply to our international operations
    increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions.
    These laws and regulations include data privacy requirements,
    labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations,
    import and trade restrictions, export requirements,
    U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and
    local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental
    officials. Violations of these laws and regulations could result
    in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our
    employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any
    such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to
    offer our products and services in one or more countries, could
    delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also
    materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international
    expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees,
    our business and our operating results. Our success depends, in
    part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these
    difficulties.

As the majority shareholder of i-flex solutions limited, a
    publicly traded Indian software company focused on the banking
    industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including
    being subject to local securities regulations and being unable
    to exert full control or obtain financial and other information
    on a timely basis.

We may experience foreign currency gains and
    losses.    We conduct a significant number of
    transactions in currencies other than the U.S. Dollar. Our
    revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the
    dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are
    positively affected when the dollar weakens. Our revenues and
    operating results have recently been favorably affected by the
    weakening U.S. Dollar relative to other major foreign
    currencies. Changes in the value of major foreign currencies,
    particularly the Euro, Japanese Yen and British Pound relative
    to the U.S. Dollar can significantly affect revenues and
    our operating results.

Our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily
    related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our
    subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in
    the period incurred. We enter into foreign exchange forward
    contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures
    in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign
    currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not
    possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies.

18

Table of Contents   

Our periodic workforce restructurings can be
    disruptive.    We have in the past restructured
    or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct
    sales force on which we continue to rely heavily, in response to
    management changes, product changes, performance issues,
    acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. In
    the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally
    resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity.
    These effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions
    and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively
    affected.

Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand may not be
    successful.    We offer Oracle On Demand
    outsourcing services for our applications and database
    technology, delivered either at our data center facilities, at
    select partner data centers or at customer facilities. We also
    offer CRM On Demand, which is a subscription service offering
    that provides our customers with our CRM software functionality
    delivered via a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. These
    business models continue to evolve and we may not be able to
    compete effectively, generate significant revenues or develop
    them into profitable businesses. We incur expenses associated
    with the infrastructures and marketing of our Oracle On Demand
    and CRM On Demand businesses in advance of our ability to
    recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. These
    businesses are subject to a variety of risks including:

demand for these services may not meet our expectations;

we may not be able to operate these businesses at an acceptable
    profit level;

we manage critical customer applications, data and other
    confidential information through Oracle On Demand and CRM On
    Demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant
    damage claims and risk to future business prospects in the event
    of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or
    misappropriation of customer confidential information;

we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data
    privacy, data security and export compliance, as well as
    workforce reduction claims as a result of customers transferring
    their IT functions to us;

the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers
    are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security
    and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect
    our ability to provide services from or to some locations and
    could increase both the costs and risks associated with
    providing the services;

demand for these services may be affected by customer and media
    concerns about security risks, international transfers of data,
    government or other third-party access to data,
     and/or  use
    of outsourced services providers more generally; and

our offerings may require large fixed costs such as for data
    centers, computers, network infrastructure and security and we
    may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these
    costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these
    offerings.

We might experience significant errors or security flaws
    in our products and services.    Despite testing
    prior to their release, software products frequently contain
    errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or
    when new versions are released. The detection and correction of
    any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. Errors in
    our software products could affect the ability of our products
    to work with other hardware or software products, could delay
    the development or release of new products or new versions of
    products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our
    products. If we experience errors or delays in releasing new
    products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. In
    addition, we run our own business operations, Oracle On Demand,
    CRM On Demand and other outsourcing services, support and
    consulting services, on our products and networks and any
    security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to
    conduct internal business operations. End users, who rely on our
    products and services for applications that are critical to
    their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product
    errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software
    products generally. Software product errors and security flaws
    in our products or services could expose us to product
    liability, performance
     and/or 
    warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could
    impact our future sales of products and services. In addition,
    we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches
    of our services, which could adversely impact future business
    prospects for those services.

We may not receive significant revenues from our current
    research and development efforts for several years, if at
    all.    Developing and localizing software is
    expensive and the investment in product development often
    involves

19

Table of Contents   

a long return on investment cycle. We have made and expect to
    continue to make significant investments in software research
    and development and related product opportunities. Accelerated
    product introductions and short product life cycles require high
    levels of expenditures for research and development that could
    adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue
    increases. We believe that we must continue to dedicate a
    significant amount of resources to our research and development
    efforts to maintain our competitive position. However, we do not
    expect to receive significant revenues from these investments
    for several years if at all.

Our sales to government clients subject us to risks
    including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions
    and penalties.    We derive revenues from
    contracts with the United States government, state and local
    governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate
    most of these contracts at any time, without cause.

There is increased pressure for governments and their agencies,
    both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. Our
    federal government contracts are subject to the approval of
    appropriations being made by the United States Congress to fund
    the expenditures under these contracts. Similarly, our contracts
    at the state and local levels are subject to government funding
    authorizations.

Additionally, government contracts are generally subject to
    audits and investigations which could result in various civil
    and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including
    termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received,
    forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and
    suspensions or debarment from future government business.

Business disruptions could affect our operating
    results.    A significant portion of our
    research and development activities and certain other critical
    business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas.
    We are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure
    of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and
    providing services, including some of our On Demand offerings. A
    major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results
    in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business
    or information technology systems could severely affect our
    ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result,
    our future operating results could be materially and adversely
    affected.

There are risks associated with our outstanding
    indebtedness.    As of May 31, 2008, we had
    an aggregate of $11.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness
    that will mature between 2009 and 2038, and we may incur
    additional indebtedness in the future. Our ability to pay
    interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is
    dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations,
    generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the
    other factors discussed in this section. There can be no
    assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks
    successfully.

We may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt
    as it matures. There is a risk that we may not be able to
    refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may
    not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt.
    Furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at
    the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon
    refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that
    refinanced indebtedness would increase. In addition, changes by
    any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could
    negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity
    securities. These risks could adversely affect our financial
    condition and results of operations.

Adverse litigation results could affect our
    business.    We are subject to various legal
    proceedings. Litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive
    to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with
    certainty. An adverse decision could result in monetary damages
    or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating
    results or financial condition. Additional information regarding
    certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under
    Note 15 in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

We may have exposure to additional tax
    liabilities.    As a multinational corporation,
    we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based
    taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining
    our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax
    liabilities.

In the ordinary course of a global business, there are many
    intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate
    tax determination is uncertain. We are regularly under audit by
    tax authorities. Our intercompany transfer pricing is currently
    being reviewed by the IRS and by foreign tax jurisdictions and
    will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. We
    previously negotiated three unilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreements with the IRS

20

Table of Contents   

that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and
    preclude the IRS from making a transfer pricing adjustment
    within the scope of these agreements. These agreements are
    effective for fiscal years through May 31, 2006. We have
    submitted to the IRS a request for renewal of this Advance
    Pricing Agreement for the years ending May 31, 2007 through
    May 31, 2011. However, these agreements do not cover all
    elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities
    outside the United States. We have finalized one bilateral
    Advance Pricing Agreement, which was effective for the years
    ending May 31, 2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have
    submitted a renewal for the years ending May 31, 2007
    through May 31, 2011. We currently are negotiating an
    additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from
    June 1, 2001 through May 31, 2008. There can be no
    guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement.

Although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there
    is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or
    tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our
    historical income tax provisions and accruals.

We are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll,
    sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and
    services taxes, in both the United States and various foreign
    jurisdictions. We are regularly under audit by tax authorities
    with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have
    exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. Our
    acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax
    exposures.

PeopleSoft s Customer Assurance Program may expose us
    to substantial liabilities if triggered.    In
    June 2003, in response to our tender offer, PeopleSoft
    implemented what it referred to as the  customer assurance
    program  or  CAP . The CAP incorporated a
    provision in PeopleSoft s standard licensing arrangement
    that purports to contractually burden us, as a result of our
    acquisition of PeopleSoft, with a contingent obligation to make
    payments to PeopleSoft customers should we fail to take certain
    business actions for a fixed period of time after this
    acquisition. The payment obligation, which typically expires
    four years from the date of the contract, is fixed at an amount
    generally between two and five times the license and first year
    support fees paid to PeopleSoft in the applicable license
    transaction. We concluded that, as of the date of the PeopleSoft
    acquisition, the penalty provisions under the CAP represented a
    contingent liability of ours. The aggregate potential CAP
    obligation as of May 31, 2008 was $1.9 billion. Some
    of the CAP provisions have expired or have been removed from
    these license arrangements. We expect the significant majority
    of the remaining CAP provisions to expire by the end of calendar
    2008. While we have taken extensive steps to assure customers
    that we intend to continue developing and supporting the
    PeopleSoft and JD Edwards product lines and, as of May 31,
    2008, we have not received any claims for CAP payments,
    PeopleSoft customers may assert claims for CAP payments.

Our stock price could become more volatile and your
    investment could lose value.    All of the
    factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price.
    The timing of announcements in the public market regarding new
    products, product enhancements or technological advances by our
    competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions,
    major transactions, or management changes could also affect our
    stock price. Our stock price is subject to speculation in the
    press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or
    earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in
    investors  or analysts  valuation measures for our
    stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our
    performance. A significant drop in our stock price could also
    expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits,
    which could result in substantial costs and divert
    management s attention and resources, which could adversely
    affect our business.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

None.

Item 2.    

Properties  

Our properties consist of owned and leased office facilities for
    sales, support, research and development, consulting and
    administrative personnel. Our headquarters facility consists of
    approximately 2.0 million square feet in Redwood City,
    California. We also own or lease office facilities for current
    use consisting of approximately 17.9 million square feet in
    various other locations in the United States and abroad. Due to
    our restructuring and merger integration activities over the
    past three fiscal years, we have vacated approximately
    3.8 million square feet

21

Table of Contents   

or 19% of total owned and leased space. This vacated space is
    sublet or is being actively marketed for sublease or disposition.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

The material set forth in Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

None.

22

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market
    under the symbol  ORCL  and has been traded on NASDAQ
    since our initial public offering in 1986. According to the
    records of our transfer agent, we had 20,505 stockholders of
    record as of May 31, 2008. The following table sets forth
    the low and high sale price of our common stock, based on the
    last daily sale, in each of our last eight fiscal quarters.

Our policy has been to reinvest earnings to fund future growth,
    acquisitions and to repurchase our common stock pursuant to a
    program approved by our Board of Directors. Accordingly, we have
    not paid cash dividends and do not anticipate declaring cash
    dividends on our common stock in the foreseeable future,
    although our Board of Directors reviews this matter from time to
    time.

For equity compensation plan information, please refer to
    Item 12 in Part III of this Annual Report.

Stock
    Repurchase Programs   

Our Board of Directors has approved a program to repurchase
    shares of our common stock to reduce the dilutive effect of our
    stock option and stock purchase plans. In April 2007, our Board
    of Directors expanded our repurchase program by
    $4.0 billion and, as of May 31, 2008,
    $2.2 billion was available for share repurchases pursuant
    to our stock repurchase program.

Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration
    date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on
    factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements
    for acquisitions, our debt repayment obligations, our stock
    price, and economic and market conditions. Our stock repurchases
    may be effected from time to time through open market purchases
    or pursuant to a
     Rule 10b5-1 
    plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated,
    suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.

The following table summarizes the stock repurchase activity for
    the three months ending May 31, 2008 and the approximate
    dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased pursuant to our
    share repurchase programs:

23

Table of Contents   

Stock
    Performance Graph and Cumulative Total Return   

The graph below compares the cumulative total stockholder return
    on our common stock with the cumulative total return on the
    S P s 500 Index and the Dow Jones U.S. Software
    Index for each of the last five fiscal years ended May 31,
    2008, assuming an investment of $100 at the beginning of such
    period and the reinvestment of any dividends. The comparisons in
    the graphs below are based upon historical data and are not
    indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of
    our common stock.

COMPARISON
    OF  5-YEAR 
    CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN* 
       AMONG
    ORACLE CORPORATION, THE S P 500 INDEX 
    AND THE DOW JONES U.S. SOFTWARE INDEX

* $100 INVESTED ON MAY 31,
    2003 IN STOCK OR

INDEX-INCLUDING REINVESTMENT OF
    DIVIDENDS.

24

Table of Contents   

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data  

The following table sets forth selected financial data as of and
    for the last five fiscal years. This selected financial data
    should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
    statements and related notes included in Item 15 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Over the last four fiscal years, we have invested billions of
    dollars, including $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, for our
    acquisitions of a number of companies including PeopleSoft, BEA,
    Siebel and Hyperion. The results of our acquired companies have
    been included in our consolidated financial statements since
    their respective dates of acquisition and have contributed to
    our growth in revenues, income and earnings per share.

(1)   

Total working capital increased as
    of May 31, 2006 primarily due to the issuance of
    $5.75 billion in long-term senior notes and increased cash
    flows from operations.

(2)   

Total working capital decreased as
    of May 31, 2005 primarily due to cash paid to acquire
    PeopleSoft.

(3)   

Total assets increased as of
    May 31, 2008, 2007, 2006 and 2005 primarily due to goodwill
    and intangible assets arising from the acquisitions of BEA in
    fiscal 2008, Hyperion in fiscal 2007, Siebel in fiscal 2006 and
    PeopleSoft in fiscal 2005, as well as our profitability in all
    periods presented. See Note 2 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for additional information on our
    acquisitions.

(4)   

Notes payable, current and other
    current borrowings decreased in fiscal 2008 due to repayments of
    amounts borrowed under our commercial paper program during
    fiscal 2007 partially offset by the reclassification of
    $1.0 billion of senior notes that mature in 2009. Notes
    payable, current and other current borrowings increased in
    fiscal 2005 due to amounts borrowed under our commercial paper
    program and amounts borrowed by Oracle Technology Company, a
    wholly-owned subsidiary. We repaid these fiscal 2005 borrowings
    in fiscal 2006.

(5)   

Notes payable and other non-current
    borrowings increased between fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2008 due to
    the issuances of $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in
    fiscal 2008, $2.0 billion of long-term senior notes in
    fiscal 2007 and $5.75 billion of long-term senior notes in
    fiscal 2006, partially offset by redemptions of
    $1.5 billion in fiscal 2007. See Note 6 of Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on
    our borrowings.

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

We begin Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations with an overview of our key
    operating business segments and significant trends. This
    overview is followed by a summary of our critical accounting
    policies and estimates that we believe are important to
    understanding the assumptions and judgments incorporated in our
    reported financial results. We then provide a more detailed
    analysis of our results of operations and financial condition.

We are the world s largest enterprise software company. We
    are organized into two businesses, software and services, which
    are further divided into five operating segments. Each of these
    operating segments has unique characteristics and faces
    different opportunities and challenges. Although we report our
    actual results in U.S. Dollars, we conduct a significant
    number of transactions in currencies other than
    U.S. Dollars. Therefore, we present constant currency
    information to provide a framework for assessing how our
    underlying business performed excluding the effect of foreign
    currency rate fluctuations. An overview of our five operating
    segments follows.

25

Table of Contents   

Software
    Business    

Our software business is comprised of two operating segments:
    (1) new software license revenues and (2) software
    license updates and product support revenues. We expect that our
    software business revenues will continue to increase due to
    continued demand for our products and due to our acquisitions,
    which should allow us to improve margins and profits and
    continue to make investments in research and development.

New Software Licenses:    We license our
    database and middleware as well as our applications software to
    businesses of many sizes, government agencies, educational
    institutions and resellers. The growth in new software license
    revenues is affected by the strength of general economic and
    business conditions, governmental budgetary constraints, the
    competitive position of our software products and acquisitions.
    Our new software license business is also characterized by long
    sales cycles. The timing of a few large software license
    transactions can substantially affect our quarterly new software
    license revenues. Since our new software license revenues in a
    particular quarter can be difficult to predict as a result of
    the timing of a few large software license transactions, we
    believe that analysis of new software license revenues on a
    trailing
     4-quarter 
    period (as provided in our quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q) 
    provides additional visibility into the underlying performance
    of our new software license business. New software license
    revenues represented 34%, 33% and 34% of our total revenues in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our new software
    license margins have been and will continue to be affected by
    the amortization of intangible assets associated with companies
    we have acquired.

Competition in the software business is intense. Our goal is to
    maintain a first or second position in each of our software
    product categories and certain industry segments as well as to
    grow our software revenues faster than our competitors. We
    believe that the features and functionality of our software
    products are as strong as they have ever been. We have focused
    on lowering the total cost of ownership of our software products
    by improving integration, decreasing installation times,
    lowering administration costs and improving the ease of use. In
    addition, our broad portfolio of product offerings (many of
    which have been acquired over the past four fiscal years) helps
    us to offer customers the ability to gain efficiencies by
    consolidating their IT  software stack  with a single
    vendor, which reduces the number of disparate software vendors
    with which customers interact. Reducing the total cost of
    ownership of our products provides our customers with a higher
    return on their IT investments, which we believe creates more
    demand for our products and services and provides us with a
    competitive advantage. We have also continued to focus on
    improving the overall quality of our software products and
    service levels. We believe this will lead to higher customer
    satisfaction and loyalty and help us achieve our goal of
    becoming our customers  leading technology advisor.

Software License Updates and Product
    Support:    Customers that purchase software
    license updates and product support are granted rights to
    unspecified product upgrades and maintenance releases issued
    during the support period, as well as technical support
    assistance. In addition, we offer Oracle Unbreakable Linux
    Support, which provides enterprise level support for the Linux
    operating system and, in fiscal 2008, we introduced support for
    Oracle VM server virtualization software. Substantially all of
    our customers renew their software license updates and product
    support contracts annually. The growth of software license
    updates and product support revenues is primarily influenced by
    three factors: (1) the renewal rate of the support contract
    base, (2) the amount of new support contracts sold in
    connection with the sale of new software licenses, and
    (3) the support contract base assumed from companies we
    have acquired.

Software license updates and product support revenues, which
    represented 46% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, is our highest margin business unit. Support margins
    during fiscal 2008 were 85%, and accounted for 76% of our total
    margins over the same period. We believe that software license
    updates and product support revenues and margins will continue
    to grow for the following reasons:

Substantially all of our customers, including customers from
    acquired companies, renew their support contracts when eligible
    for renewal.

Substantially all of our customers purchase license updates and
    product support contracts when they buy new software licenses,
    resulting in a further increase in our support contract base.
    Even if new software license revenue growth was flat, software
    license updates and product support revenues would continue to
    grow assuming renewal and cancellation rates remained relatively
    constant since substantially all new software license
    transactions add to our support contract base.

26

Table of Contents   

Our acquisitions have increased our support contract base, as
    well as the portfolio of products available to be licensed.

We record adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed in
    business acquisitions to their estimated fair values at the
    acquisition dates. As a result, as required by business
    combination accounting rules, we did not recognize software
    license updates and product support revenues related to support
    contracts that would have been otherwise recorded by the
    acquired businesses as independent entities in the amount of
    $179 million, $212 million and $391 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. To the extent
    underlying support contracts are renewed with us following an
    acquisition, we will recognize the revenues for the full value
    of the support contracts over the support periods, the majority
    of which are one year.

Services
    Business    

Our services business consists of consulting, On Demand and
    education. Our services business, which represented 20%, 21% and
    20% of our total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively, has significantly lower margins than our software
    business.

Consulting:    Consulting revenues have
    increased primarily due to an increase in application
    implementations resulting from higher sales of new software
    applications over the past year and our recent acquisitions. We
    expect consulting revenues to continue to grow as consulting
    revenues tend to lag software revenues by several quarters since
    consulting services, if purchased, are typically performed after
    the purchase of new software licenses and our new software
    license growth rates have generally increased over the last
    several quarters in comparison to the corresponding prior year
    periods.

On Demand:    On Demand includes Oracle On
    Demand, CRM on Demand, as well as Advanced Customer Services
    offerings. We believe that our On Demand offerings provide our
    customers flexibility in how they manage their IT environments
    and an additional opportunity to lower their total cost of
    ownership and can therefore provide us with a competitive
    advantage. We have made and plan to continue to make investments
    in our On Demand business to support current and future revenue
    growth, which has negatively impacted On Demand margins and may
    continue to do so in the future.

Education:    The purpose of our education
    services is to further the adoption and usage of our software
    products by our customers and to create opportunities to grow
    our software revenues. Education revenues have been impacted by
    personnel reductions in our customers  information
    technology departments, tighter controls over discretionary
    spending and greater use of outsourcing solutions. However,
    education revenues and expenses have increased in recent periods
    in comparison to the corresponding periods of the prior year as
    a result of additional education offerings related to our
    acquired products.

Acquisitions    

An active acquisition program is another important element of
    our corporate strategy. Over the last four fiscal years, we have
    invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in
    fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of complementary companies,
    products, services and technologies such as BEA Systems, Inc. in
    fiscal 2008, Hyperion Solutions Corporation in fiscal 2007,
    Siebel Systems, Inc. in fiscal 2006 and PeopleSoft, Inc. in
    fiscal 2005. We believe our acquisition program supports our
    long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive
    position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to
    accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and
    increases stockholder value. We expect to continue to acquire
    companies, products, services and technologies. See Note 2
    of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information related to our recent acquisitions.

We believe we can fund additional acquisitions with our
    internally available cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities, cash generated from operations, amounts available
    under our existing debt capacity, additional borrowings or from
    the issuance of additional securities. We estimate the financial
    impact of any potential acquisition with regard to earnings,
    operating margin, cash flow and return on invested capital
    targets before deciding to move forward with an acquisition.

27

Table of Contents   

Critical
    Accounting Policies and Estimates  

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
    These accounting principles require us to make certain
    estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
    estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are
    reasonable based upon information available to us at the time
    that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These
    estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported
    amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
    financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there
    are material differences between these estimates, judgments or
    assumptions and actual results, our financial statements will be
    affected. The accounting policies that reflect our more
    significant estimates, judgments and assumptions and which we
    believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and
    evaluating our reported financial results include the following:

Revenue Recognition

Business Combinations

Goodwill and Intangible Assets Impairment Assessments

Accounting for Income Taxes

Legal and Other Contingencies

Stock-Based Compensation

Allowances for Doubtful Accounts

In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular
    transaction is specifically dictated by GAAP and does not
    require management s judgment in its application. There are
    also areas in which management s judgment in selecting
    among available alternatives would not produce a materially
    different result. Our senior management has reviewed these
    critical accounting policies and related disclosures with the
    Finance and Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.

Revenue
    Recognition   

We derive revenues from the following sources:
    (1) software, which includes new software license and
    software license updates and product support revenues, and
    (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and
    education revenues.

New software license revenues represent fees earned from
    granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and
    applications software, and exclude revenues derived from
    software license updates, which are included in software license
    updates and product support. While the basis for software
    license revenue recognition is substantially governed by the
    provisions of Statement of Position (SOP)
     No. 97-2, 
     Software Revenue Recognition , issued by the American
    Institute of Certified Public Accountants, we exercise judgment
    and use estimates in connection with the determination of the
    amount of software and services revenues to be recognized in
    each accounting period.

For software license arrangements that do not require
    significant modification or customization of the underlying
    software, we recognize new software license revenue when:
    (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a
    customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the
    products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or
    determinable and free of contingencies or significant
    uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable.
    Substantially all of our new software license revenues are
    recognized in this manner.

The vast majority of our software license arrangements include
    software license updates and product support, which are
    recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically
    one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights
    to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases
    and patches released during the term of the support period.
    Product support includes internet access to technical content,
    as well as internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel located in our global support centers. Software
    license updates and product support are generally priced as a
    percentage of the net new software license fees. Substantially
    all of our customers purchase both software license updates and
    product support when they acquire new software licenses. In
    addition, substantially all of our customers renew their
    software license updates and product support contracts annually.

28

Table of Contents   

Many of our software arrangements include consulting
    implementation services sold separately under consulting
    engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these
    arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new
    software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as
    service transactions as defined in
     SOP 97-2. 
    The more significant factors considered in determining whether
    the revenue should be accounted for separately include the
    nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services
    are essential to the functionality of the licensed product),
    degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors,
    timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance
    criteria on the realizability of the software license fee.
    Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the
    services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty
    about the project completion or receipt of payment for the
    consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty
    is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional
    performance on contracts with fixed or  not to exceed 
    fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a
    percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If
    we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards
    completion, revenue is recognized when we receive final
    acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed
    revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using
    cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened
    daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering
    the services. The complexity of the estimation process and
    factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties
    inherent with the application of the proportional performance
    method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related
    expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A
    number of internal and external factors can affect our
    estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency
    variances and specification and testing requirement changes.

If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of
    the software license and consulting transactions, then new
    software license revenues are generally recognized together with
    the consulting services based on contract accounting using
    either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract
    method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements:
    (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance
    criteria that may affect collection of the software license
    fees; (2) where services include significant modification
    or customization of the software; (3) where significant
    consulting services are provided for in the software license
    contract without additional charge or are substantially
    discounted; or (4) where the software license payment is
    tied to the performance of consulting services.

On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and
    Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides
    multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance
    services for our database, middleware and applications software
    delivered either at our data center facilities, at select
    partner data centers or at customer facilities. CRM On Demand is
    a service offering that provides our customers with our Siebel
    CRM software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that
    we manage. Advanced Customer Services are earned by providing
    customers configuration and performance analysis, personalized
    support and annual
     on-site 
    technical services. Revenue from On Demand services is
    recognized over the term of the service period, which is
    generally one year.

Education revenues include instructor-led, media-based and
    internet-based training in the use of our products. Education
    revenues are recognized as the classes or other education
    offerings are delivered.

For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenue to
    each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as
    determined by  vendor specific objective evidence. 
    Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all
    elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and
    discounting practices for those products and services when sold
    separately, and for software license updates and product support
    services is also measured by the renewal rate offered to the
    customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future,
    which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective
    evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a
    result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element
    arrangements could differ significantly from our historical
    results.

We defer revenues for any undelivered elements, and recognize
    revenues when the product is delivered or over the period in
    which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue
    recognition policy for each such element. If we cannot
    objectively determine the fair value of any undelivered element
    included in bundled software and service arrangements, we defer
    revenues until all elements are delivered and services have been
    performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for
    any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a
    delivered element has not been established, we use the residual
    method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered

29

Table of Contents   

elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair
    value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining
    portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered
    elements and is recognized as revenue.

Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not
    include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions
    exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with
    government entities when acceptance periods are required by law,
    or within previously executed terms and conditions that are
    referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in
    nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided
    the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are
    not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are
    long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an
    arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of
    receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the
    acceptance period.

We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities
    containing  fiscal funding  or  termination for
    convenience  provisions, when such provisions are required
    by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation.
    We consider multiple factors, including the history with the
    customer in similar transactions, the  essential use 
    of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and
    approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we
    determine upon execution of these arrangements that the
    likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues
    once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such
    a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the
    earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding
    provision by the governmental entity.

We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of
    sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition
    requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are
    net 30 days. However, payment terms may vary based on
    the country in which the agreement is executed. Payments that
    are due within six months are generally deemed to be fixed or
    determinable based on our successful collection history on such
    arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria for
    revenue recognition.

While most of our arrangements include short-term payment terms,
    we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to
    credit worthy customers through our financing division. Since
    fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have
    established a history of collection, without concessions, on
    these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to
    five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software
    license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of
    any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have
    generally sold receivables financed through our financing
    division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing
    institutions. We account for the sale of these receivables as
     true sales  as defined in FASB Statement
    No. 140,  Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of
    Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities .

Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare
    occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations
    from these vendors at or about the same time that we have
    licensed our software to these same companies (Concurrent
    Transaction). Software license agreements that occur within a
    three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or
    services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate
    accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or
    services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately
    from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to
    be at arm s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We
    recognize new software license revenues from Concurrent
    Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met
    and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our
    current operations.

Business
    Combinations   

In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
    Statement No. 141,  Business Combinations , we
    allocate the purchase price of acquired companies to the
    tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed
    as well as to in-process research and development based upon
    their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. The
    purchase price allocation process requires management to make
    significant estimates and assumptions, especially at acquisition
    date with respect to intangible assets, support obligations
    assumed, estimated restructuring liabilities and pre-acquisition
    contingencies.

30

Table of Contents   

Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made
    in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, they are based
    in part on historical experience and information obtained from
    the management of the acquired companies and are inherently
    uncertain. Examples of critical estimates in valuing certain of
    the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the
    future include but are not limited to:

future expected cash flows from software license sales, support
    agreements, consulting contracts, other customer contracts and
    acquired developed technologies and patents;

expected costs to develop the in-process research and
    development into commercially viable products and estimated cash
    flows from the projects when completed;

the acquired company s brand and competitive position, as
    well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired brand
    will continue to be used in the combined company s product
    portfolio; and

discount rates.

Unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may
    affect the accuracy or validity of such assumptions, estimates
    or actual results.

In connection with the purchase price allocations for our
    acquisitions, we estimate the fair value of the support
    obligations assumed. The estimated fair value of the support
    obligations is determined utilizing a cost
     build-up 
    approach. The cost
     build-up 
    approach determines fair value by estimating the costs related
    to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The
    estimated costs to fulfill the support obligations are based on
    the historical direct costs related to providing the support
    services and to correct any errors in the software products
    acquired. The sum of these costs and operating profit
    approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be required to
    pay a third party to assume the support obligation. We do not
    include any costs associated with selling efforts or research
    and development or the related fulfillment margins on these
    costs. Profit associated with any selling efforts is excluded
    because the acquired entities would have concluded those selling
    efforts on the support contracts prior to the acquisition date.
    We also do not include the estimated research and development
    costs in our fair value determinations, as these costs are not
    deemed to represent a legal obligation at the time of
    acquisition.

As a result, we did not recognize software license updates and
    product support revenues related to support contracts in the
    amounts of $179 million, $212 million and
    $391 million that would have been otherwise recorded by the
    acquired businesses as independent entities in fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. Historically, substantially all of our
    customers, including customers from acquired companies, renew
    their contracts when the contracts are eligible for renewal. To
    the extent these underlying support contracts are renewed, we
    will recognize the revenues for the full value of the support
    contracts over the support periods, the substantial majority of
    which are one year.

Had we included costs for our estimated selling and research and
    development activities and the associated margin for unspecified
    product upgrades and enhancements to be provided under our
    assumed support arrangements, the fair values of the support
    obligations would have been significantly higher than what we
    had recorded and we would have recorded a higher amount of
    software license updates and product support revenues both
    historically and in future periods related to these assumed
    support arrangements.

Other significant estimates associated with the accounting for
    business combinations include restructuring costs. Restructuring
    costs are typically comprised of severance costs, costs of
    consolidating duplicate facilities and contract termination
    costs. Restructuring expenses are based upon plans that have
    been committed to by management, but are generally subject to
    refinement during the purchase price allocation period
    (generally within one year of the acquisition date). To estimate
    restructuring expenses, management utilizes assumptions of the
    number of employees that would be involuntarily terminated and
    of future costs to operate and eventually vacate duplicate
    facilities. Estimated restructuring expenses may change as
    management executes the approved plan. Decreases to the cost
    estimates of executing the currently approved plans associated
    with pre-merger activities of the companies we acquire are
    recorded as an adjustment to goodwill indefinitely, whereas
    increases to the estimates are recorded as an adjustment to
    goodwill during the purchase price allocation period and as
    operating expenses thereafter.

For a given acquisition, we may identify certain pre-acquisition
    contingencies. If, during the purchase price allocation period,
    we are able to determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition
    contingency, we will include that amount in the purchase price
    allocation. If, as of the end of the purchase price allocation
    period, we are unable to

31

Table of Contents   

determine the fair value of a pre-acquisition contingency, we
    will evaluate whether to include an amount in the purchase price
    allocation based on whether it is probable a liability had been
    incurred and whether an amount can be reasonably estimated. With
    the exception of unresolved income tax matters, after the end of
    the purchase price allocation period, any adjustment to amounts
    recorded for a pre-acquisition contingency will be included in
    our operating results in the period in which the adjustment is
    determined.

In fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations . Refer to
    Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information.

Goodwill
    and Intangible Assets Impairment Assessments   

We review goodwill for impairment annually and whenever events
    or changes in circumstances indicate its carrying value may not
    be recoverable in accordance with FASB Statement No. 142,
     Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . The provisions of
    Statement 142 require that a two-step impairment test be
    performed on goodwill. In the first step, we compare the fair
    value of each reporting unit to its carrying value. Our
    reporting units are consistent with the reportable segments
    identified in Note 13 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the
    carrying value of the net assets assigned to that unit, goodwill
    is considered not impaired and we are not required to perform
    further testing. If the carrying value of the net assets
    assigned to the reporting unit exceeds the fair value of the
    reporting unit, then we must perform the second step of the
    impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value of
    the reporting unit s goodwill. If the carrying value of a
    reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its implied fair value,
    then we would record an impairment loss equal to the difference.

Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves the use
    of significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and
    assumptions include revenue growth rates and operating margins
    used to calculate projected future cash flows, risk-adjusted
    discount rates, future economic and market conditions and
    determination of appropriate market comparables. We base our
    fair value estimates on assumptions we believe to be reasonable
    but that are unpredictable and inherently uncertain. Actual
    future results may differ from those estimates. In addition, we
    make certain judgments and assumptions in allocating shared
    assets and liabilities to determine the carrying values for each
    of our reporting units. Our most recent annual goodwill
    impairment analysis, which was performed during the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2008, did not result in an impairment charge.

We make judgments about the recoverability of purchased
    intangible assets whenever events or changes in circumstances
    indicate that an other than temporary impairment may exist. Each
    period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful lives of
    purchased intangible assets and whether events or changes in
    circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining periods of
    amortization. In accordance with FASB Statement No. 144,
     Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived
    Assets , recoverability of these assets is measured by
    comparison of the carrying amount of the asset to the future
    undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If
    the asset is considered to be impaired, the amount of any
    impairment is measured as the difference between the carrying
    value and the fair value of the impaired asset.

Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining
    useful lives of our intangible and other long-lived assets are
    complex and subjective. They can be affected by a variety of
    factors, including external factors such as industry and
    economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our
    business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we
    believe the historical assumptions and estimates we have made
    are reasonable and appropriate, different assumptions and
    estimates could materially impact our reported financial
    results. We did not recognize any intangible asset impairment
    charges in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Accounting
    for Income Taxes   

Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide
    income tax provision. In the ordinary course of a global
    business, there are many transactions and calculations where the
    ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Some of these uncertainties
    arise as a consequence of revenue sharing and cost reimbursement
    arrangements among related entities, the process of identifying
    items of revenues and expenses that qualify for preferential tax
    treatment, and segregation of foreign and domestic earnings and
    expenses to avoid double taxation. Although we believe that our
    estimates are reasonable, the final tax outcome of these matters
    could be different from that which is reflected in our

32

Table of Contents   

historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences
    could have a material effect on our income tax provision and net
    income in the period in which such determination is made.

Our effective tax rate includes the impact of certain
    undistributed foreign earnings for which no U.S. taxes have
    been provided because such earnings are planned to be
    indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. Remittances
    of foreign earnings to the U.S. are planned based on
    projected cash flow, working capital and investment needs of our
    foreign and domestic operations. Based on these assumptions, we
    estimate the amount that will be distributed to the
    U.S. and provide U.S. federal taxes on these amounts.
    Material changes in our estimates could impact our effective tax
    rate.

We record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax
    assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be
    realized. In order for us to realize our deferred tax assets, we
    must be able to generate sufficient taxable income in those
    jurisdictions where the deferred tax assets are located. We
    consider future growth, forecasted earnings, future taxable
    income, the mix of earnings in the jurisdictions in which we
    operate and prudent and feasible tax planning strategies in
    determining the need for a valuation allowance. In the event we
    were to determine that we would not be able to realize all or
    part of our net deferred tax assets in the future, an adjustment
    to the deferred tax assets would be charged to earnings in the
    period in which we make such a determination. Likewise, if we
    later determine that it is more likely than not that the net
    deferred tax assets would be realized, we would reverse the
    applicable portion of the previously provided valuation
    allowance.

We calculate our current and deferred tax provision based on
    estimates and assumptions that could differ from the actual
    results reflected in income tax returns filed during the
    subsequent year. Adjustments based on filed returns are
    generally recorded in the period when the tax returns are filed
    and the global tax implications are known, which can materially
    impact our effective tax rate.

The amount of income tax we pay is subject to ongoing audits by
    federal, state and foreign tax authorities, which often result
    in proposed assessments. Our estimate of the potential outcome
    for any uncertain tax issue is highly judgmental. We believe we
    have adequately provided for any reasonably foreseeable outcome
    related to these matters. However, our future results may
    include favorable or unfavorable adjustments to our estimated
    tax liabilities in the period the assessments are made or
    resolved, audits are closed or when statutes of limitation on
    potential assessments expire. Additionally, the jurisdictions in
    which our earnings or deductions are realized may differ from
    our current estimates. As a result, our effective tax rate may
    fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis.

As part of our accounting for business combinations, some of the
    purchase price is allocated to goodwill and intangible assets.
    Impairment charges associated with goodwill are generally not
    tax deductible and will result in an increased effective income
    tax rate in the quarter any impairment is recorded. Amortization
    expenses associated with acquired intangible assets are
    generally not tax deductible pursuant to our existing tax
    structure; however, deferred taxes have been recorded for
    non-deductible amortization expenses as a part of the purchase
    price allocation process. We have taken into account the
    allocation of these identified intangibles among different
    taxing jurisdictions, including those with nominal or zero
    percent tax rates, in establishing the related deferred tax
    liabilities. Income tax contingencies existing as of the
    acquisition dates of the acquired companies are evaluated
    quarterly and any adjustments are recorded as adjustments to
    goodwill.

On June 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48),
    which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring
    uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax
    return by determining if the weight of available evidence
    indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position
    will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related
    appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to measure
    the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than 50%
    likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. Although we
    believe we have adequately reserved for our uncertain tax
    positions, no assurance can be given with respect to the final
    outcome of these matters. We adjust reserves for our uncertain
    tax positions due to changing facts and circumstances, such as
    the closing of a tax audit or the refinement of an estimate. To
    the extent that the final outcome of these matters is different
    than the amounts recorded, such differences will impact our
    provision for income taxes in the period in which such a
    determination is made. Our provisions for income taxes include
    the impact of reserve provisions and changes to reserves that
    are considered appropriate and also include the related interest
    and penalties.

33

Table of Contents   

Legal
    and Other Contingencies   

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant
    matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the
    potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered
    probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a
    liability for the estimated loss. Significant judgment is
    required in both the determination of probability and the
    determination as to whether an exposure is reasonably estimable.
    Because of uncertainties related to these matters, accruals are
    based only on the best information available at the time. As
    additional information becomes available, we reassess the
    potential liability related to our pending claims and litigation
    and may revise our estimates. Such revisions in the estimates of
    the potential liabilities could have a material impact on our
    results of operations and financial position.

As a result of our acquisition of PeopleSoft in fiscal 2005, we
    inherited contingent liabilities resulting from a program
    PeopleSoft had implemented prior to the consummation of our
    acquisition of PeopleSoft (referred to as the  customer
    assurance program  or  CAP ). See Note 9 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    information.

Stock-Based
    Compensation   

We account for share-based payments to employees, including
    grants of employee stock awards and purchases under employee
    stock purchase plans in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  which
    requires that share-based payments (to the extent they are
    compensatory) be recognized in our consolidated statements of
    operations based on their fair values. In addition, we have
    applied the provisions of the SEC s Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 107 in our accounting for Statement
    123(R).

We are required to estimate the stock awards that we ultimately
    expect to vest and to reduce stock-based compensation expense
    for the effects of estimated forfeitures of awards over the
    expense recognition period. Although we estimate forfeitures
    based on historical experience, actual forfeitures in the future
    may differ. In addition, to the extent our actual forfeitures
    are different than our estimates, we record a
     true-up  for
    the difference in the period that the awards vest, and such
     true-ups 
    could materially affect our operating results.

As required by Statement 123(R), we recognize stock-based
    compensation expense for share-based payments issued or assumed
    after June 1, 2006 that are expected to vest. For all
    share-based payments granted or assumed beginning June 1,
    2006, we recognize stock-based compensation expense on a
    straight-line basis over the service period of the award, which
    is generally four years. The fair value of the unvested portion
    of share-based payments granted prior to June 1, 2006 is
    recognized over the remaining service period using the
    accelerated expense attribution method, net of estimated
    forfeitures. In determining whether an award is expected to
    vest, we use an estimated, forward-looking forfeiture rate based
    upon our historical forfeiture rates. Stock-based compensation
    expense recorded using an estimated forfeiture rate is updated
    for actual forfeitures quarterly. We also consider, each
    quarter, whether there have been any significant changes in
    facts and circumstances that would affect our forfeiture rate.

We estimate the fair value of employee stock options using a
    Black-Scholes valuation model. The fair value of an award is
    affected by our stock price on the date of grant as well as
    other assumptions including the estimated volatility of our
    stock price over the term of the awards and the estimated period
    of time that we expect employees to hold their stock options.
    The risk-free interest rate assumption we use is based upon
    United States treasury interest rates appropriate for the
    expected life of the awards. We use the implied volatility of
    our publicly traded, longest-term options in order to estimate
    future stock price trends as we believe that implied volatility
    is more representative of future stock price trends than
    historical volatility. In order to determine the estimated
    period of time that we expect employees to hold their stock
    options, we have used historical rates of employee groups by job
    classification. Our expected dividend rate is zero since we do
    not currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not
    anticipate doing so in the foreseeable future. The
    aforementioned inputs entered into the option valuation model we
    use to fair value our stock awards are subjective estimates and
    changes to these estimates will cause the fair value of our
    stock awards and related stock-based compensation expense we
    record to vary.

We record deferred tax assets for stock-based awards that result
    in deductions on our income tax returns, based on the amount of
    stock-based compensation recognized and the statutory tax rate
    in the jurisdiction in which we will

34

Table of Contents   

receive a tax deduction. Because the deferred tax assets we
    record are based upon the stock-based compensation expenses in a
    particular jurisdiction, the aforementioned inputs that affect
    the fair value of our stock awards also indirectly affect our
    income tax expense. In addition, differences between the
    deferred tax assets recognized for financial reporting purposes
    and the actual tax deduction reported on our income tax returns
    are recorded in additional paid-in capital. If the tax deduction
    is less than the deferred tax asset, such shortfalls reduce our
    pool of excess tax benefits. If the pool of excess tax benefits
    is reduced to zero, then subsequent shortfalls would increase
    our income tax expense. Our pool of excess tax benefits is
    computed in accordance with the alternative transition method as
    prescribed under FASB Staff Position
     FAS 123R-3, 
     Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
    Share-Based Payment Awards .

To the extent we change the terms of our employee stock-based
    compensation programs or refine different assumptions in future
    periods such as forfeiture rates that differ from our estimates,
    the stock-based compensation expense that we record in future
    periods and the tax benefits that we realize may differ
    significantly from what we have recorded in previous reporting
    periods.

Allowances
    for Doubtful Accounts   

We make judgments as to our ability to collect outstanding
    receivables and provide allowances for the portion of
    receivables when collection becomes doubtful. Provisions are
    made based upon a specific review of all significant outstanding
    invoices. For those invoices not specifically reviewed,
    provisions are provided at differing rates, based upon the age
    of the receivable, the collection history associated with the
    geographic region that the receivable was recorded and current
    economic trends. If the historical data we use to calculate the
    allowances for doubtful accounts does not reflect the future
    ability to collect outstanding receivables, additional
    provisions for doubtful accounts may be needed and our future
    results of operations could be materially affected.

Results
    of Operations  

The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2008
    compared to fiscal 2007 is primarily impacted by our acquisition
    of Hyperion in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2007, our
    acquisition of Agile Software, Inc. in our first quarter of
    fiscal 2008 and our acquisition of BEA in our fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2008.

The comparability of our operating results in fiscal 2007 in
    comparison to fiscal 2006 is impacted by our acquisition of
    Siebel in our third quarter of fiscal 2006, the consolidation of
    i-flex solutions limited at the beginning of fiscal 2007 and, to
    a lesser extent, our acquisition of Hyperion in our fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2007.

In our discussion of changes in our results of operations from
    fiscal 2008 compared to fiscal 2007, and fiscal 2007 compared to
    fiscal 2006, we quantify the contribution of our acquired
    products to the growth in new software license revenues, the
    amount of revenues associated with software license updates and
    product support, as well as On Demand services (in the fiscal
    2007 to fiscal 2006 comparison), and present supplemental
    disclosure related to certain charges and gains (including
    acquisition accounting and stock-based compensation), where
    applicable. Although certain revenue contributions from our
    acquisitions are quantifiable, we are unable to identify the
    following:

The contribution of the significant majority of consulting and
    education services revenues from acquired companies in fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006 (with the exception of the impact of BEA
    consulting and education revenues in fiscal 2008 in comparison
    to fiscal 2007, and i-flex and Hyperion consulting revenues and
    Hyperion education revenues for which we disclose the impact in
    fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006) as the
    significant majority of these services have been fully
    integrated into our existing operations.

The contribution of expenses associated with acquired products
    and services in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006 (with the exception
    of the impact of certain BEA operating expenses in fiscal 2008
    in comparison to fiscal 2007 and the impact of certain i-flex
    and Hyperion operating expenses for which we disclose the impact
    in fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006) as the
    significant majority of these services have been fully
    integrated into our existing operations.

35

Table of Contents   

We caution readers that, while pre- and post-acquisition
    comparisons as well as the quantified amounts themselves may
    provide indications of general trends, the information has
    inherent limitations for the following reasons:

The quantifications cannot address the substantial effects
    attributable to our sales force integration efforts, in
    particular the effect of having a single sales force offer
    similar products. We believe that if our sales forces had not
    been integrated, the relative mix of products sold would have
    been different.

Our acquisitions in the periods presented did not result in our
    entry into a new line of business or product category.
    Therefore, we provided multiple products with substantially
    similar features and functionality.

Although substantially all of our customers, including customers
    from acquired companies, renew their software license updates
    and product support contracts when the contracts are eligible
    for renewal, amounts shown as support deferred revenue in our
    supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains
    (see below) are not necessarily indicative of revenue
    improvements we will achieve upon contract renewal to the extent
    customers do not renew.

Constant
    Currency Presentation   

We compare the percent change in the results from one period to
    another period in this annual report using constant currency
    disclosure. We present constant currency information to provide
    a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses
    performed excluding the effect of foreign currency rate
    fluctuations. To present this information, current and
    comparative prior period results for entities reporting in
    currencies other than U.S. Dollars are converted into
    U.S. Dollars at the exchange rate in effect on May 31,
    2007, which was the last day of our prior fiscal year, rather
    than the actual exchange rates in effect during the respective
    periods. For example, if an entity reporting in Euros had
    revenues of 1.0 million Euros from products sold on
    May 31, 2008 and May 31, 2007, our financial
    statements would reflect revenues of $1.57 million in
    fiscal 2008 (using 1.57 as the exchange rate) and
    $1.35 million in fiscal 2007 (using 1.35 as the exchange
    rate). The constant currency presentation would translate the
    fiscal 2008 results using the fiscal 2007 exchange rate and
    indicate, in this example, no change in revenues during the
    period. In each of the tables below, we present the percent
    change based on actual results as reported and based on constant
    currency.

Total
    Revenues and Operating Expenses   

(1)   

Comprised of Europe, the Middle
    East and Africa

36

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Total revenues increased in fiscal 2008
    due to increased demand for our products and services offerings
    and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. The growth in
    our total revenues was positively affected by foreign currency
    rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal 2008 due
    to the weakening of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major
    international currencies. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, new software license revenues contributed 38% to
    the growth in total revenues, software license updates and
    product support revenues contributed 45% and services revenues
    contributed 17%. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, the Americas contributed 50% to the increase in
    total revenues, EMEA contributed 37% and Asia Pacific
    contributed 13%.

Total operating expenses were adversely affected by foreign
    currency rate fluctuations of 4 percentage points.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase
    in operating expenses is primarily due to higher salary and
    employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels
    (primarily resulting from our fiscal 2007 acquisitions, Agile in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2008 and, to a lesser extent, BEA in
    the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008), as well as higher
    commissions and bonuses associated with increased revenues,
    earnings and headcount levels. In addition, operating expenses
    also increased in fiscal 2008 due to higher expenses from the
    amortization of intangible assets and additional stock-based
    compensation resulting from a higher fair value of grants issued
    in fiscal 2008 (caused primarily by our higher stock price) and
    the acceleration of vesting of certain acquired stock awards
    upon employee terminations pursuant to the original terms of
    those awards. Total operating expenses in fiscal 2007 were also
    reduced by a $52 million benefit as a result of a
    settlement of an acquired legal contingency from PeopleSoft for
    less than the amount accrued as of the end of the purchase price
    allocation period. The increases in operating expenses during
    fiscal 2008 were partially offset by a $57 million gain on
    property sale and a $127 million reduction of in-process
    research and development from our fiscal 2008 acquisitions in
    comparison to our fiscal 2007 acquisitions.

Total operating margin as a percentage of total revenues
    increased during fiscal 2008. The growth in our operating margin
    in fiscal 2008 was the result of our revenue growth, both
    organic and from acquisitions, and the relatively fixed nature
    of our cost structure in the short term. In addition, our
    operating margin growth was favorably affected by foreign
    currency rate fluctuations of 9 percentage points.

International operations will continue to provide a significant
    portion of our total revenues and expenses. As a result, total
    revenues and expenses will continue to be affected by changes in
    the relative strength of the U.S. Dollar against certain
    major international currencies.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Total revenues increased in fiscal 2007
    due to increased demand for our products and services offerings
    and incremental revenues from our acquisitions. Total revenues
    were positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations
    of 3 percentage points in fiscal 2007 due to the weakening
    of the U.S. Dollar relative to other major international
    currencies. Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations,
    new software license revenues contributed 27% to the growth in
    total revenues, software license updates and product support
    revenues contributed 47% and services revenues contributed 26%.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas
    contributed 56% to the increase in total revenues, EMEA
    contributed 30% and Asia Pacific contributed 14%.

Operating expenses were adversely affected by foreign currency
    rate fluctuations of 3 percentage points. Excluding the
    effect of currency rate fluctuations, the increase in total
    operating expenses was primarily due to higher salary and
    employee benefits associated with increased headcount levels
    (primarily resulting from our acquisitions), as well as higher
    commissions and travel and entertainment expenses associated
    with both increased revenues and headcount levels. In addition,
    operating expenses also increased in fiscal 2007 due to higher
    amortization costs of intangible assets and stock-based
    compensation expenses related to our adoption of Statement
    123(R) at the beginning of fiscal 2007. The aforementioned
    increases in operating expenses were partially offset by lower
    restructuring expenses and the settlement of a PeopleSoft
    contingency that provided a $52 million benefit to our
    operating expenses (see Acquisition Related and Other Expenses
    discussion below).

Operating margins as a percentage of total revenues were flat in
    fiscal 2007 in comparison to fiscal 2006 and were favorably
    affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    5 percentage points. Our revenues grew at a faster rate
    than our operating expenses, excluding the impact of
    amortization costs of intangible assets and stock-based
    compensation expenses. The increases in those cost categories
    offset the slower growth in our other operating expenses.

37

Table of Contents   

Supplemental
    Disclosure Related to Certain Charges and Gains  

To supplement our consolidated financial information we believe
    the following information is helpful to an overall understanding
    of our past financial performance and prospects for the future.
    You should review the introduction under  Results of
    Operations  (above) for a discussion of the inherent
    limitations in comparing pre- and post-acquisition information.

Our operating results include the following business combination
    accounting entries and expenses related to acquisitions as well
    as certain other significant expense and income items:

(1)   

In connection with purchase price
    allocations related to our acquisitions, we have estimated the
    fair values of the support obligations assumed. Due to our
    application of business combination accounting rules, we did not
    recognize software license updates and product support revenues
    related to support contracts that would have otherwise been
    recorded by the acquired businesses as independent entities, in
    the amounts of $179 million, $212 million and
    $391 million in fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006,
    respectively. Approximately $205 million of estimated
    software license updates and product support revenues related to
    support contracts assumed will not be recognized in fiscal 2009
    that would have otherwise been recognized by the acquired
    businesses as independent entities, due to the application of
    business combination accounting rules. To the extent customers
    renew these support contracts, we expect to recognize revenues
    for the full contract value over the support renewal period.

(2)   

Represents the amortization of
    intangible assets acquired in connection with acquisitions,
    primarily PeopleSoft, BEA, Siebel, Hyperion and i-flex. As of
    May 31, 2008, estimated future amortization expenses
    related to intangible assets are as follows (in millions):

(3)   

Acquisition related and other
    expenses primarily consist of in-process research and
    development expenses, stock-based compensation expenses,
    integration related professional services, personnel related
    costs for transitional employees, certain business combination
    contingency adjustments after the purchase price allocation
    period has ended, and certain other operating expenses (income),
    net. For fiscal 2008, acquisition related and other expenses
    include a gain on property sale of $57 million and, for
    fiscal 2007, acquisition related and other expenses include a
    benefit of $52 million related to the settlement of a
    pre-acquisition lawsuit against PeopleSoft (see Note 1 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further
    information).

(4)   

Restructuring expenses during
    fiscal 2008 relate to Oracle employee severance in connection
    with restructuring plans initiated in the second quarter, and
    amended in the fourth quarter, of fiscal 2008. Restructuring
    costs during fiscal 2007 relate to an Oracle-based restructuring
    plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006 for which
    additional expenses were recorded during fiscal 2007.

(5)   

Stock-based compensation is
    included in the following operating expense line items of our
    consolidated statements of operations (in millions):

Stock-based compensation included
    in acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested
    options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated
    upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those
    options.

At the beginning of fiscal 2007, we
    adopted Statement 123(R) under the modified prospective method.
    Statement 123(R) requires us to record non-cash operating
    expenses associated with stock awards at their estimated fair
    values. Prior to our Statement 123(R) adoption, we were required
    to record stock-based compensation expenses at intrinsic values
    and substantially all of our stock-based compensation expense
    related to options assumed from acquisitions. In accordance with
    the modified prospective method, our financial statements for
    prior periods (i.e. fiscal 2006) have not been restated to
    reflect, and do not include, the changes in methodology to
    expense options at fair values in accordance with Statement
    123(R).

(6)   

The income tax effects on the above
    presented charges and gains were calculated based on our
    effective tax rates of 29.5%, 28.6% and 29.7% in fiscal 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

38

Table of Contents   

Software  

Software includes new software licenses and software license
    updates and product support.

New Software Licenses:    New software
    license revenues represent fees earned from granting customers
    licenses to use our database and middleware as well as our
    application software products. We continue to place significant
    emphasis, both domestically and internationally, on direct sales
    through our own sales force. We also continue to market our
    products through indirect channels. Sales and marketing expenses
    are largely personnel-related and include commissions earned by
    our sales force for the sale of our software products, and also
    include marketing program costs and amortization of intangible
    assets.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    New software license revenues growth
    was positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    7 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, new software license revenues grew
    in all major product lines and across all geographies, with
    database and middleware revenues contributing 55% to the
    increase in new software license revenues and applications
    revenues contributing 45%. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, the Americas contributed 52%, EMEA contributed 39%
    and Asia Pacific contributed 9% to the increase in new software
    license revenues.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and
    middleware revenues grew 17% in fiscal 2008 as a result of
    increased demand for our database and middleware products as
    well as incremental revenues from acquired

39

Table of Contents   

companies. Hyperion products contributed $103 million, BEA
    products contributed $93 million, Stellent products
    contributed $37 million, Tangosol products contributed
    $18 million and other recently acquired products
    contributed $2 million to the total database and middleware
    revenues growth in fiscal 2008.

On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased
    33% in fiscal 2008 due to continued strengthening of our
    competitive position in the applications software segment of the
    software industry as a result of our broad portfolio of product
    offerings to a diverse customer base and incremental revenues
    from acquired companies. Hyperion products contributed
    $199 million, Agile products contributed $58 million,
    Metasolv products contributed $14 million, and other
    recently acquired products contributed $42 million to the
    total applications revenue growth in fiscal 2008.

New software license revenues earned from transactions over
    $0.5 million grew by 42% in fiscal 2008 and increased from
    46% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2007 to 51% in
    fiscal 2008.

Sales and marketing expenses were adversely impacted by
    5 percentage points of unfavorable currency variations
    during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, sales and marketing expenses increased in fiscal
    2008 primarily due to higher salaries, benefits and travel
    expenses resulting from increased headcount, higher commissions
    expenses associated with both increased revenues and headcount
    levels, and an increase in planned marketing program expenses.
    Sales and marketing expenses include $45 million in
    expenses from BEA in fiscal 2008. These increases were partially
    offset by a $42 million reduction in litigation related
    expenses resulting primarily from the settlement of certain
    legal matters during the third quarter of fiscal 2008.

Total new software license margin as a percentage of revenues
    increased due to our new software licenses revenues growth rate
    and a favorable foreign currency impact, partially offset by
    higher growth rates in our amortization of intangible assets and
    stock-based compensation expenses.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, new software license revenues grew in all major
    product lines and across all geographies. Database and
    middleware revenues contributed 57% to the increase in new
    software license revenues, while applications revenues
    contributed 43%. The Americas contributed 50%, EMEA contributed
    33% and Asia Pacific contributed 17% to the increase in new
    software license revenues.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, database and
    middleware revenues grew 12% as a result of increased demand for
    our database and middleware products as well as incremental
    revenues from acquired companies. Siebel products contributed
    incremental revenues of $48 million, Stellent products
    contributed $26 million, Hyperion products contributed
    $16 million and other recently acquired products
    contributed $19 million to the total database and
    middleware revenues growth in fiscal 2007.

On a constant currency basis, applications revenues increased
    29% as a result of the strengthening of our competitive position
    in the applications software segment of the software industry
    and incremental revenues from acquired companies. Siebel
    products contributed $130 million, i-flex products
    contributed $50 million, Hyperion products contributed
    $27 million, Portal products contributed $22 million,
    Demantra products contributed $21 million and other
    recently acquired products contributed $22 million to the
    total applications revenues growth.

New software license revenues earned from transactions over
    $0.5 million grew by 24% in fiscal 2007 and increased from
    45% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2006 to 46% in
    fiscal 2007.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, sales and
    marketing expenses increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to
    higher personnel related expenses associated with increased
    headcount, as well as higher commissions expenses associated
    with both increased revenues and headcount levels. Total new
    software license margin as a percentage of revenues declined as
    our expenses, including amortization costs of intangible assets,
    grew at a faster rate than our revenues.

Software License Updates and Product
    Support:    Software license updates grant
    customers rights to unspecified software product upgrades and
    maintenance releases issued during the support period. Product
    support includes internet access to technical content as well as
    internet and telephone access to technical support personnel in
    our global support centers. Expenses associated with our
    software license updates and product support line of business
    include the cost of providing the support services, largely
    personnel related expenses, and the amortization of our

40

Table of Contents   

intangible assets associated with software support contracts and
    customer relationships obtained from our acquisitions.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    The growth in our software license
    updates and product support revenues was favorably affected by
    foreign currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points
    in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, software license updates and product support
    revenues increased in fiscal 2008 as a result of the addition of
    software license updates and product support contracts
    associated with new software licenses sold during the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2007 and over the course of fiscal 2008, the
    renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for
    renewal in the current fiscal year and incremental revenues from
    the expansion of our customer base from acquisitions. Excluding
    the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas
    contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 36% and Asia Pacific
    contributed 11% to the increase in software license updates and
    product support revenues.

Software license updates and product support revenues in fiscal
    2008 include incremental revenues of $303 million from
    Hyperion, $38 million from BEA, $38 million from
    Agile, $30 million from Stellent, $25 million from
    Metasolv, and $46 million from other recently acquired
    companies. As a result of our acquisitions, we recorded
    adjustments to reduce support obligations assumed to their
    estimated fair value at the acquisition dates. Due to our
    application of business combination accounting rules, software
    license updates and product support revenues related to support
    contracts in the amounts of $179 million, $212 million
    and $391 million that would have been otherwise recorded by
    our acquired businesses as independent entities, were not
    recognized in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
    Historically, substantially all of our customers, including
    customers from acquired companies, renew their support contracts
    when such contracts are eligible for renewal. To the extent
    these underlying support contracts are renewed, we will
    recognize the revenues for the full value of these contracts
    over the support periods, the substantial majority of which are
    one year.

Software license updates and product support expenses were
    adversely impacted by 3 percentage points of unfavorable
    currency variations during fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, software license updates and product
    support expenses increased due to higher salary and benefits
    associated with increased headcount to support the expansion of
    our customer base, higher bonuses and commissions due to
    increased revenues, and higher amortization expenses resulting
    from additional intangible assets acquired during fiscal 2008
    and fiscal 2007. Software license updates and product support
    expenses include $7 million of expense growth from BEA in
    fiscal 2008. Total software license updates and product support
    margin as a percentage of revenues

41

Table of Contents   

increased slightly as our revenues grew faster than expenses,
    but were partially offset by a higher growth rate in our
    amortization of intangible assets expenses.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, software license updates and product support
    revenues increased in fiscal 2007 as a result of the addition of
    software license updates and product support contracts
    associated with new software licenses sold during the fourth
    quarter of fiscal 2006 and over the course of fiscal 2007, the
    renewal of substantially all of the customer base eligible for
    renewal in fiscal 2007 and incremental revenues from the
    expansion of our customer base from acquisitions. Excluding the
    effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed
    59%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific contributed 12% to
    the increase in software license updates and product support
    revenues. Software license updates and product support revenues
    in fiscal 2007 include revenue growth of $310 million from
    Siebel, $37 million from i-flex, $19 million from
    Hyperion, and $55 million from other recently acquired
    companies.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, software
    license updates and product support expenses increased due to
    higher salary and benefits associated with increased headcount
    to support the expansion of our customer base, higher
    amortization expenses resulting from additional intangible
    assets acquired during fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006 and higher
    stock-based compensation expenses. Software license updates and
    product support expenses include $16 million in incremental
    expenses from both i-flex and Hyperion. Total software license
    updates and product support margin as a percentage of revenues
    remained constant as intangible asset amortization expenses and
    stock-based compensation expenses grew much faster than revenues
    and offset the lower growth in other operating expenses.

Services  

Services consist of consulting, On Demand and education.

Consulting:    Consulting revenues are
    earned by providing services to customers in the design,
    implementation, deployment and upgrade of our database and
    middleware software products as well as applications software
    products. The cost of providing consulting services consists
    primarily of personnel related expenditures.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

42

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Consulting revenue growth was
    positively affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, consulting revenues increased during
    fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in application product
    implementations associated with the sales of our application
    software products and incremental revenues from our recent
    acquisitions, primarily Hyperion and BEA. BEA added
    $16 million to our consulting revenue growth in fiscal
    2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the
    Americas contributed 36%, EMEA contributed 35% and Asia Pacific
    contributed 29% to the increase in consulting revenues.

Consulting expenses were adversely impacted by 6 percentage
    points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2008.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting
    expenses increased during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher
    personnel related expenses attributable to higher headcount
    levels and third party contractor expenses that supported our
    increase in revenues. BEA added $16 million to our
    consulting expense growth in fiscal 2008. Total consulting
    margin as a percentage of revenues remained constant during
    fiscal 2008 as margin improvements in the EMEA and Asia Pacific
    regions were offset by expense growth in the Americas region and
    for i-flex and an increase in our amortization of intangible
    asset expenses.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, consulting revenues increased during fiscal 2007
    primarily due to an increase in our application product
    implementations associated with the increase in sales of our
    application software products and incremental revenues from our
    acquisitions, including $359 million of incremental
    revenues from i-flex, whom we acquired at the beginning of
    fiscal 2007, and $16 million of incremental revenues from
    Hyperion. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations,
    the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia
    Pacific contributed 16% to the increase in consulting revenues.

Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, consulting
    expenses increased in fiscal 2007 as a result of higher
    personnel related expenses attributable to higher headcount
    levels and third-party contractor expenses. Consulting expenses
    included $281 million of incremental expenses from i-flex
    and $17 million from Hyperion. Total consulting margin as a
    percentage of revenues increased primarily due to higher margins
    contributed by i-flex.

On Demand:    On Demand includes our
    Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and Advanced Customer Services
    offerings. Oracle On Demand provides multi-featured software and
    hardware management, and maintenance services for our database
    and middleware as well as our applications software delivered
    either at our data center facilities, at select partner data
    centers, or at customer facilities. CRM On Demand is a service
    offering that provides our customers with our CRM software
    functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage.
    Advanced Customer Services consists of configuration and
    performance analysis, personalized support and
     on-site 
    technical services. The cost of providing On Demand services
    consists primarily of personnel related expenditures, technology
    infrastructure expenditures and facilities costs.

43

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

*

Not meaningful

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal 2007:    On
    Demand revenue growth was positively affected by foreign
    currency rate fluctuations of 6 percentage points in fiscal
    2008. Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On
    Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2008 due to an increase in
    each service category s subscription base as more customers
    engaged us to provide IT outsourcing solutions. On a constant
    currency basis, Oracle On Demand, Advanced Customer Services and
    CRM On Demand contributed 44%, 42% and 14%, respectively.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, the Americas
    contributed 53%, EMEA contributed 29% and Asia Pacific
    contributed 18% to the increase in On Demand revenues.

Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations
    of 4 percentage points, On Demand expenses increased in
    fiscal 2008 due to higher salaries and benefits expenses
    associated with increased headcount, and higher technology
    infrastructure related expenses to support the expansion of our
    customer base. These expense increases were partially offset by
    a shift of certain U.S. based costs to global support
    centers in lower cost countries. Total On Demand margin as a
    percentage of revenues improved primarily as a result of our
    Oracle On Demand business, which increased revenues while
    managing operating expenses to a level consistent with fiscal
    2007 and the favorable impact of currency effects during the
    period. Our Advanced Customer Services and CRM On Demand margin
    percentages also improved modestly in comparison to fiscal 2007.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, On Demand revenues increased in fiscal 2007 due to
    higher Advanced Customer Services revenues, and the expansion of
    our subscription base in both Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand
    services. Advanced Customer Services revenues contributed 46% of
    the growth, while Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand contributed
    33% and 21%, respectively. Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, the Americas contributed 55%, EMEA contributed 32%
    and Asia Pacific contributed 13% to the increase in On Demand
    revenues. Advanced Customer Services and CRM On Demand revenues
    included $50 million and $31 million, respectively, of
    incremental revenues from Siebel in fiscal 2007.

44

Table of Contents   

On Demand expenses were adversely impacted by 5 percentage
    points of unfavorable currency variations during fiscal 2007.
    Excluding the effect of currency rate fluctuations, On Demand
    expenses increased due to higher personnel related expenditures,
    higher amortization expenses resulting from intangible assets,
    as well as higher IT related costs to support the expansion of
    our customer base. On Demand expense growth also reflects a full
    year of expenses from Siebel On Demand employees (in comparison
    to only four months in fiscal 2006). Total On Demand margin as a
    percentage of revenues decreased, primarily driven by more rapid
    growth in personnel related expenses in comparison to revenues,
    and to a lesser extent, growth in IT related expenditures for
    Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand, as well as amortization of
    intangible assets. Advanced Customer Services operating margins
    remained flat compared with the prior year while operating
    losses in both Oracle On Demand and CRM On Demand increased.

Education:    Education revenues are
    earned by providing instructor led, media based and internet
    based training in the use of our database and middleware
    software products as well as applications software products.
    Education expenses primarily consist of personnel related
    expenditures, facilities and external contractor costs.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

*

Not meaningful

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Education revenue growth was positively
    affected by foreign currency rate fluctuations of
    6 percentage points in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of
    currency rate fluctuations, education revenues increased in
    fiscal 2008 due primarily to an increase in customer training on
    the use of our applications products, including recently
    acquired products. BEA contributed $2 million to our
    revenue growth in fiscal 2008. Excluding the effect of currency
    rate fluctuations, the Americas contributed 39%, EMEA
    contributed 36% and Asia Pacific contributed 25% to the increase
    in education revenues.

Excluding the effect of unfavorable currency rate fluctuations
    of 7 percentage points, education expenses increased due to
    higher personnel related expenses during the first half of
    fiscal 2008 and were partially offset by lower personnel related
    expenses in the second half of fiscal 2008 as a result of
    restructuring actions taken. Education expenses also increased
    due to third party contractor expenses and royalty fees
    associated with increased revenues and included $2 million
    of incremental expenses from BEA. Education margin as a
    percentage of revenues increased slightly in fiscal 2008 as
    revenue growth exceeded expense growth.

45

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, education revenues grew in fiscal 2007 primarily
    due to an increase in customer training on the use of our
    application products, as well as $5 million of incremental
    revenues from Hyperion. The Americas contributed 46%, EMEA
    contributed 26% and Asia Pacific contributed 28% to the increase
    in education revenues.

Excluding the effects of currency rate fluctuations, education
    expenses increased in fiscal 2007 due to incremental headcount
    and associated personnel related expenditures, as well as higher
    third party contractor expenses and royalty fees associated with
    increased revenues. Education expenses also included
    $3 million of incremental expenses from Hyperion. Total
    education margin as a percentage of revenues decreased as
    expenses grew at a higher rate than revenues.

Research and Development
    Expenses:    Research and development expenses
    consist primarily of personnel related expenditures. We intend
    to continue to invest significantly in our research and
    development efforts because, in our judgment, they are essential
    to maintaining our competitive position.

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

(2)   

Included as a component of
     Amortization of Intangible Assets  in our
    consolidated statements of operations

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, research and development expenses increased in
    fiscal 2008 due to higher employee related expenses associated
    with higher headcount levels, including higher stock-based
    compensation expenses, and $46 million of increased
    expenses pertaining to certain legal-related matters. Our growth
    in research and development expenses included $15 million
    from BEA in fiscal 2008. The increase in our headcount was the
    combined result of our recent acquisitions and our hiring of
    additional resources to develop new functionality for our
    existing products. Research and development headcount as of the
    end of fiscal 2008 increased by approximately
    2,550 employees in comparison to fiscal 2007, and included
    approximately 950 employees from BEA.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, research and development expenses increased due to
    higher salary and benefits expenses associated with higher
    headcount levels, increased stock-based compensation expenses
    due to our adoption of Statement 123(R) at the beginning of
    fiscal 2007, and increased external contractor expenses. Our
    growth in research and development expenses was impacted by our
    acquisitions, including $25 million from i-flex and
    $19 million from Hyperion. Research and development
    headcount increased by approximately 3,600 employees in
    comparison to fiscal 2006, and included approximately
    1,200 employees from i-flex and 600 employees from
    Hyperion.

General and Administrative
    Expenses:    General and administrative expenses
    primarily consist of personnel related expenditures for
    information technology, finance, legal and human resources
    support functions.

46

Table of Contents   

(1)   

Excluding stock-based compensation

*

Not meaningful

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased
    during fiscal 2008 as a result of higher personnel related costs
    associated with increased headcount to support our expanding
    operations and increased stock-based compensation expenses.
    General and administrative expenses include $4 million of
    expenses from BEA in fiscal 2008.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Excluding the effect of currency rate
    fluctuations, general and administrative expenses increased
    during fiscal 2007 as a result of higher personnel related costs
    associated with increased headcount to support our expanding
    operations, the recognition of stock-based compensation expenses
    due to the adoption of Statement 123(R) at the beginning of
    fiscal 2007 and increased professional services fees, primarily
    litigation related expenses. General and administrative expenses
    included incremental expenses of $25 million from i-flex
    and $10 million from Hyperion in fiscal 2007.

Amortization
    of Intangible Assets Expenses:   

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Amortization of intangible assets
    increased in fiscal 2008 due to the amortization of acquired
    intangibles from Agile, Hyperion, BEA and other acquisitions
    that we consummated since the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007. See
    Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information regarding our intangible assets
    (including weighted average useful lives) and related
    amortization expenses.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Amortization of intangible assets
    increased in fiscal 2007 due to the amortization of purchased
    intangibles from Hyperion, Siebel (a full year of amortization
    in fiscal 2007 in comparison to four months in fiscal 2006),
    i-flex and other acquisitions that we consummated since the
    fourth quarter of fiscal 2006.

Acquisition Related and Other
    Expenses:    Acquisition related and other
    expenses primarily consist of in-process research and
    development expenses, integration related professional services,
    stock-based compensation expenses, personnel related costs for
    transitional employees, certain business combination contingency
    adjustments after the purchase price allocation period has
    ended, and certain other expenses (income), net. Stock-based
    compensation expenses included in acquisition related and other
    expenses relate to unvested options assumed from acquisitions
    whereby vesting was accelerated upon termination of the
    employees pursuant to the original terms of those options.

47

Table of Contents   

* 

Not meaningful

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Acquisition related and other expenses
    decreased during fiscal 2008 due to lower in-process research
    and development acquired as a part of our fiscal 2008
    acquisitions in comparison to our fiscal 2007 acquisitions and a
    $57 million gain on a property sale in December 2007 (see
    Note 1 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information). These decreases to acquisition related
    and other expenses were partially offset by higher transitional
    employee related expenses and increased stock-based compensation
    expenses due to the acceleration of certain acquired employee
    stock options pursuant to the terms of those options. Business
    combination contingency adjustments in fiscal 2007 included a
    $52 million benefit relating to the settlement of a lawsuit
    filed against PeopleSoft on behalf of the U.S. government.
    This lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition
    of PeopleSoft, and represented a pre-acquisition contingency
    that we identified and assumed in connection with our
    acquisition of PeopleSoft. We settled this lawsuit in October
    2006, which was subsequent to the purchase price allocation
    period, for approximately $98 million. Accordingly, we
    included the difference between the amount accrued as of the end
    of the purchase price allocation period and the settlement
    amount as a $52 million benefit to our consolidated
    statement of operations for fiscal 2007.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Acquisition related charges increased
    primarily due to in-process research and development charges
    resulting from our acquisitions of Hyperion, i-flex and others
    in fiscal 2007. This increase was almost entirely offset by a
    $52 million benefit as described above.

Restructuring expenses:    Restructuring
    expenses consist of Oracle employee severance costs and Oracle
    duplicate facilities closures that were initiated to improve our
    cost structure as a result of acquisitions. For additional
    information regarding the Oracle restructuring plans, as well as
    restructuring activities of our acquired companies, please see
    Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    During the second quarter of fiscal
    2008, our management with the appropriate level of authority
    approved, committed to, and initiated the Oracle Fiscal 2008
    Restructuring Plan (2008 Plan) as a result of certain management
    and operational changes that are intended to improve
    efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations. Our 2008 Plan was
    amended in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 to include the
    expected effects resulting from our acquisition of BEA. The
    total estimated costs associated with the 2008 Plan are
    approximately $111 million and are primarily related to
    employee severance. The majority of these estimated costs are
    expected to be incurred over the course of fiscal 2009. Our
    estimated costs are preliminary and may be subject to change in
    future periods. We incurred restructuring expenses of
    $41 million in fiscal 2008, pursuant to the 2008 Plan (see
    Note 7 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information). Restructuring expenses in fiscal 2007
    relate to Oracle employee severance and facility closures that
    were recorded in those periods and were a part of a
    restructuring plan initiated in the third quarter of fiscal 2006.

48

Table of Contents   

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Restructuring expenses decreased in
    fiscal 2007 as we initiated the majority of the actions pursuant
    to the Fiscal 2006 Oracle Restructuring Plan during fiscal 2006.
    Our management did not initiate any new plans to restructure our
    Oracle-based operations during fiscal 2007.

Interest
    Expense:   

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Interest expense increased in fiscal
    2008 due to higher average borrowings resulting from the
    issuance of $5.0 billion of senior notes in April 2008, a
    net increase of $500 million in additional senior notes
    outstanding for the majority of fiscal 2008 and our issuances of
    short-term commercial paper in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008
    and fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 (we repaid these commercial
    paper amounts during fiscal 2008).

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Interest expense increased in fiscal
    2007 due to higher average borrowings in fiscal 2007 related to
    our $5.75 billion aggregate principal amount of senior
    notes issued in January 2006 (of which $1.5 billion was
    redeemed by us in May 2007), our $2.1 billion of commercial
    paper issuances (of which approximately $1.4 billion
    remained outstanding as of May 31, 2007) and our
    $2.0 billion of senior notes issued in May 2007.

Non-Operating Income,
    net:    Non-operating income, net consists
    primarily of interest income, net foreign currency exchange
    gains, the minority owners  share in the net profits of our
    majority-owned i-flex and Oracle Japan subsidiaries, and other
    income including net gains related to our marketable securities
    and other investments.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Non-operating income, net increased in
    fiscal 2008 primarily due to an increase in interest income from
    higher weighted average cash and marketable securities balances
    during fiscal 2008.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Non-operating income, net increased in
    fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher interest income attributable
    to an increase in average interest rates (the weighted average
    interest rate earned on cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities increased from 3.04% in fiscal 2006 to 3.97% in
    fiscal 2007), partially offset by higher minority
    interests  share in the net profits of i-flex and our
    Oracle Japan majority-owned subsidiaries.

Provision for Income Taxes:    The
    effective tax rate in all periods is the result of the mix of
    income earned in various tax jurisdictions that apply a broad
    range of income tax rates. The provision for income taxes
    differs from the tax computed at the U.S. federal statutory
    income tax rate due primarily to state taxes and earnings
    considered as indefinitely reinvested in foreign operations.
    Future effective tax rates could be adversely affected if
    earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have
    lower statutory rates, by unfavorable changes in tax laws and
    regulations, or by adverse rulings in tax related litigation.

49

Table of Contents   

Provision for income taxes increased in fiscal 2008 and fiscal
    2007 due to higher earnings before taxes. See Note 12 of
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information.

Liquidity
    and Capital Resources  

Working capital:    The increase in
    working capital in fiscal 2008 was primarily due to an increase
    in our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances
    resulting from the issuance of $5.0 billion of long-term
    senior notes in April 2008, additional cash and trade
    receivables generated from our operations and our adoption of
    FIN 48, which resulted in a significant reclassification of
    certain short-term tax liabilities to long-term (see
    Note 12 to Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for
    additional information). These increases in working capital were
    partially offset by cash used in fiscal 2008 to pay for our
    acquisitions (primarily BEA) and to repurchase our common stock.
    The decrease in working capital in fiscal 2007 was primarily a
    result of cash used to pay for our acquisitions and stock
    repurchases, partially offset by increases in operating cash
    flows from higher sales volumes, proceeds received from employee
    stock option exercises and an increase in our long-term
    borrowings.

Cash, cash equivalents and marketable
    securities:    Cash and cash equivalents
    primarily consist of deposits held at major banks, money market
    funds, Tier-1 commercial paper, U.S. Treasury obligations,
    U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise
    obligations, and other securities with original maturities of
    90 days or less. Marketable securities primarily consist of
    time deposits held at major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper,
    corporate notes, U.S. Treasury obligations and
    U.S. government agency and government sponsored enterprise
    obligations. Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities
    include $10.1 billion held by our foreign subsidiaries as
    of May 31, 2008. The increase in cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities at May 31, 2008 in comparison to
    May 31, 2007 is due to the issuance of $5.0 billion of
    senior notes in April 2008 and an increase in our operating cash
    flows resulting primarily from an increase in net income,
    partially offset by cash used for our acquisitions (primarily
    BEA), net repayments of our short-term commercial paper notes,
    and repurchases of our common stock. The decrease in cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities at May 31, 2007 in
    comparison to May 31, 2006 is a result of cash used to pay
    for acquisitions and stock repurchases during fiscal 2007,
    partially offset by an increase in our operating cash flows from
    higher net income, increases in our short-term and long-term
    borrowings and proceeds from stock option exercises.

Days sales outstanding, which is calculated by dividing period
    end accounts receivable by average daily sales for the quarter,
    was 63 days at May 31, 2008 compared with 62 days
    at May 31, 2007. The days sales outstanding calculation
    excludes the adjustment to reduce software license updates and
    product support revenues related to adjusting the carrying value
    for deferred support revenues acquired to fair value. Our
    increase in days sales outstanding is primarily due to
    differences in the timing of completion of certain sales
    transactions between years and a slight decline in timeliness of
    collections in certain countries.

Cash flows from operating
    activities:    Our largest source of operating
    cash flows is cash collections from our customers following the
    purchase and renewal of their software license updates and
    product support agreements.

50

Table of Contents   

Payments from customers for software license updates and product
    support agreements are generally received near the beginning of
    the contract term, which is generally one year in length. We
    also generate significant cash from new software license sales
    and, to a lesser extent, services. Our primary uses of cash from
    operating activities are for personnel related expenditures as
    well as payments related to taxes and leased facilities.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Net cash provided by operating
    activities increased in fiscal 2008 primarily due to higher net
    income, partially offset by increased accounts receivable due to
    fourth quarter fiscal 2008 revenue growth.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Cash flows provided by operating
    activities increased in fiscal 2007 primarily due to higher net
    income, partially offset by increased accounts receivable due to
    fourth quarter fiscal 2007 revenue growth, cash payments to
    terminate leases associated with excess facilities assumed in
    the Siebel acquisition, and the settlement of a pre-acquisition
    lawsuit filed against PeopleSoft.

Cash flows from investing
    activities:    The changes in cash flows from
    investing activities primarily relate to acquisitions and the
    timing of purchases, maturities and sales of our investments in
    marketable securities. We also use cash to invest in capital and
    other assets to support our growth.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Net cash used for investing activities
    increased in fiscal 2008 due to an increase in cash used for
    acquisitions (primarily BEA), net of cash acquired and an
    increase in cash used to purchase marketable securities (net of
    proceeds received from maturities).

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Net cash used for investing activities
    increased in fiscal 2007 due to an increase in cash used for
    acquisitions, net of cash acquired. We paid cash to purchase a
    number of companies in fiscal 2007 including Hyperion, Stellent,
    MetaSolv, and Portal Software, and to purchase additional equity
    securities in
     i-flex.  Cash
    outflows in fiscal 2006 primarily relate to our acquisition of
    Siebel and our equity investment purchases in
     i-flex. 

Cash flows from financing
    activities:    The changes in cash flows from
    financing activities primarily relate to borrowings and payments
    under debt obligations as well as stock repurchases and proceeds
    from stock option exercise activity.

Fiscal 2008 Compared to Fiscal
    2007:    Net cash provided by financing
    activities in fiscal 2008 increased in comparison to cash used
    by financing activities in fiscal 2007 due to the issuance of
    $5.0 billion of long-term senior notes in April 2008,
    additional proceeds from stock option exercises, excess tax
    benefits realized from stock-based compensation arrangements,
    and decreased spending on stock repurchases, and were partially
    offset by $1.4 billion of net repayments of short-term
    commercial paper notes.

Fiscal 2007 Compared to Fiscal
    2006:    Net cash used for financing activities
    in fiscal 2007 primarily relates to an increase in stock
    repurchases and lower borrowings, net of repayments, when
    compared with fiscal 2006.

Free cash flow:    To supplement our
    statements of cash flows presented on a GAAP basis, we use
    non-GAAP measures of cash flows on a trailing
     4-quarter 
    basis to analyze cash flows generated from our operations. We
    believe free cash flow is also useful as one of the bases for
    comparing our performance with our competitors. The presentation
    of non-GAAP free cash flow is not meant to be considered in
    isolation or as an alternative to net income as an indicator of
    our performance, or as an alternative to cash flows from
    operating activities as a measure of liquidity. We calculate
    free cash flows as follows:

(1)   

Represents capital expenditures as
    reported in cash flows from investing activities in our
    consolidated statements of cash flows presented in accordance
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

51

Table of Contents   

Long-Term
    Customer Financing   

We offer our customers the option to acquire our software
    products and service offerings through separate long-term
    payment contracts. We generally sell contracts that we have
    financed on a non-recourse basis to financial institutions. We
    record the transfers of amounts due from customers to financial
    institutions as sales of financial assets because we are
    considered to have surrendered control of these financial
    assets. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, $1.1 billion,
    $891 million and $618 million or approximately 15%,
    15% and 13%, respectively, of our new software license revenues
    were financed through our financing division.

Contractual
    Obligations   

The contractual obligations presented in the table below
    represent our estimates of future payments under fixed
    contractual obligations and commitments. Changes in our business
    needs, cancellation provisions, changing interest rates and
    other factors may result in actual payments differing from these
    estimates. We cannot provide certainty regarding the timing and
    amounts of payments. We have presented below a summary of the
    most significant assumptions used in our information within the
    context of our consolidated financial position, results of
    operations and cash flows. The following is a summary of our
    contractual obligations as of May 31, 2008:

(1)   

Our borrowings (excluding capital
    leases) consist of the following as of May 31, 2008:

Our floating rate senior notes due
    May 2009 and May 2010 bore interest at a rate of 2.70% and
    2.74%, respectively, as of May 31, 2008. In September 2007,
    we entered into two interest-rate swap agreements that have the
    economic effect of modifying the variable interest obligations
    associated with our floating rate senior notes due May 2009 and
    May 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior notes
    effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%,
    respectively. Interest payments were calculated based on terms
    of the related agreements and include estimates based on the
    effective interest rates as of May 31, 2008 for variable
    rate borrowings after consideration of the aforementioned
    interest rate swap agreements.

(2)   

Represents remaining payments under
    capital leases assumed from acquisitions.

(3)   

Primarily represents leases of
    facilities and includes future minimum rent payments for
    facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring
    and merger integration activities. We have approximately
    $355 million in facility obligations, net of estimated
    sublease income, in accrued restructuring for these locations in
    our consolidated balance sheet at May 31, 2008.

(4)   

Represents amounts associated with
    agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify
    terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased;
    fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate
    timing of the payment.

(5)   

Represents the maximum additional
    capital we may need to contribute toward our venture fund
    investments, which are payable upon demand.

52

Table of Contents   

Excluded from the table above are agreements that we entered
    into during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and the first
    quarter of fiscal 2009 in which we agreed to acquire a number of
    companies for estimated total cash consideration of
    $407 million. We expect these transactions to close during
    the first quarter of fiscal 2009.

As of May 31, 2008, we have $1.7 billion of
    unrecognized tax benefits recorded on our consolidated balance
    sheet. We have reached certain settlement agreements with
    relevant taxing authorities to pay approximately
    $90 million of these liabilities. Although it remains
    unclear as to when payments pursuant to these agreements will be
    made, some or all may be made in fiscal 2009. We cannot make a
    reasonably reliable estimate of the period in which the
    remainder of these liabilities will be settled or released with
    the relevant tax authorities, although we believe it is
    reasonably possible that certain of these liabilities could be
    settled or released during fiscal 2009.

We believe that our current cash, cash equivalents and
    marketable securities and cash generated from operations will be
    sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditures and
    contractual obligations. In addition, we believe we could fund
    our acquisitions, including the aforementioned acquisitions that
    we expect to close during the first quarter of fiscal 2009, and
    repurchase common stock with our internally available cash, cash
    equivalents and marketable securities, cash generated from
    operations, our existing available debt capacity, additional
    borrowings or from the issuance of additional securities.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements   

We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that have or
    are reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on our
    financial condition, changes in financial condition, revenues or
    expenses, results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures
    or capital resources that are material to investors.

Recent
    Financing Activities   

Senior
    Notes  

In April 2008, we issued $5.0 billion of fixed rate senior
    notes, of which $1.25 billion of 4.95% senior notes is
    due April 2013 (2013 Notes), $2.5 billion of
    5.75% senior notes is due April 2018 (2018 Notes), and
    $1.25 billion of 6.50% senior notes is due April 2038
    (2038 Notes). We issued these senior notes to finance the
    acquisition of BEA and for general corporate purposes. Some or
    all of the 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes may be redeemed
    at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium. The
    2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest semi-annually.

In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion of floating rate senior
    notes, of which $1.0 billion is due May 2009 (New 2009
    Notes) and $1.0 billion is due May 2010 (2010 Notes). We
    issued the New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes to fund the redemption
    of the $1.5 billion of senior floating rate notes that we
    issued in fiscal 2006 (see below) and for general corporate
    purposes. The New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes bear interest at a
    rate of three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.02% and 0.06%,
    respectively, and interest is payable quarterly. The New 2009
    Notes and 2010 Notes may not be redeemed prior to their maturity.

In January 2006, we issued $5.75 billion of senior notes
    consisting of $1.5 billion of floating rate senior notes
    due 2009 (Original 2009 Notes), $2.25 billion of
    5.00% senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and
    $2.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2016 (2016
    Notes and together with the Original 2009 Notes and the 2011
    Notes, Original Senior Notes) to finance the Siebel acquisition
    and for general corporate purposes. On June 16, 2006, we
    completed a registered exchange offer of the Original Senior
    Notes for registered senior notes with substantially identical
    terms to the Original Senior Notes.

In May 2007 we redeemed the Original 2009 Notes for their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our 2011
    Notes and 2016 Notes may also be redeemed at any time, subject
    to payment of a make-whole premium. Interest is payable
    semi-annually for the 2011 notes and 2016 notes.

The effective interest yields of the New 2009 Notes, 2010 Notes,
    2011 Notes, 2013 Notes, 2016 Notes, 2018 Notes, and 2038 Notes
    (collectively, the Senior Notes) at May 31, 2008 were
    2.70%, 2.74%, 5.08%, 4.96%, 5.33%, 5.76% and 6.52%,
    respectively. In September 2007, we entered into two interest
    rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying
    the variable interest obligations associated with the New 2009
    Notes and 2010 Notes

53

Table of Contents   

so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively
    became fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%, respectively, until
    maturity.

The Senior Notes rank pari passu with any Commercial Paper Notes
    (defined below) that we may issue and all existing and future
    senior indebtedness of Oracle Corporation. All existing and
    future liabilities of the subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation
    will be effectively senior to the Senior Notes and any
    Commercial Paper Notes that we may issue.

Commercial
    Paper Program  

In March 2008, we increased our commercial paper program to
    $5.0 billion from $3.0 billion (the CP Program). The
    original dealer agreements entered into in February 2006 with
    each of Banc of America Securities LLC, JP Morgan Securities
    Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc. and
    Merrill Lynch Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
    the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement entered into in February
    2006 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, remained in
    effect and were not changed. Under the CP Program, we may issue
    and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper
    Notes) pursuant to a private placement exemption from the
    registration requirements under federal and state securities
    laws. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, we issued approximately
    $1.2 billion and $2.1 billion of Commercial Paper
    Notes, respectively, of which none and $1.4 billion
    remained outstanding as of May 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. As of May 31, 2008, we had $5.0 billion
    of capacity remaining under our CP Program.

Revolving
    Credit Agreements  

In March 2008, we entered into a $2.0 billion,
     364-Day 
    Revolving Credit Agreement with Wachovia Bank, National
    Association, Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders
    (2008 Credit Agreement). The 2008 Credit Agreement was in
    addition to an existing $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving
    Credit Agreement with substantially the same parties that we
    entered into in March 2006 (the 2006 Credit Agreement and,
    collectively with the 2008 Credit Agreement, the Credit
    Agreements). The Credit Agreements provide for unsecured
    revolving credit facilities, which can also be used to backstop
    any Commercial Paper Notes (see above) that we may issue and for
    working capital and other general corporate purposes. Subject to
    certain conditions stated in the Credit Agreements, we may
    borrow, prepay and re-borrow amounts under the facilities at any
    time during the terms of the Credit Agreements. Interest for the
    Credit Agreements is based on either (a) a LIBOR-based
    formula or (b) a formula based on Wachovia s prime
    rate or on the federal funds effective rate. Any amounts drawn
    pursuant to the 2008 Credit Agreement are due on March 17,
    2009 (we may, upon the agreement of the lenders, extend the
    facility by up to two times in succession). Any amounts drawn
    pursuant to the 2006 Credit Agreement are due on March 14,
    2011. No amounts were outstanding pursuant to the Credit
    Agreements as of May 31, 2008 and 2007. A total of
    $5.0 billion remained available pursuant to the Credit
    Agreements at May 31, 2008.

The Credit Agreements contain certain customary representations
    and warranties, covenants and events of default, including the
    requirement that our total net debt to total capitalization
    ratio not exceed 45%. If any of the events of default occur and
    are not cured within applicable grace periods or waived, any
    unpaid amounts under the Credit Agreements may be declared
    immediately due and payable and the Credit Agreements may be
    terminated. We were in compliance with the Credit
    Agreements  covenants as of May 31, 2008.

Selected
    Quarterly Financial Data  

Quarterly revenues and expenses have historically been affected
    by a variety of seasonal factors, including sales compensation
    plans. In addition, our European operations generally provide
    lower revenues in our first fiscal quarter because of the
    reduced economic activity in Europe during the summer. These
    seasonal factors are common in the software industry. These
    factors have caused a decrease in our first quarter revenues as
    compared to revenues in the immediately preceding fourth
    quarter, which historically has been our highest revenue
    quarter. We expect this trend to continue into the first quarter
    of fiscal 2009.

The following tables set forth selected unaudited quarterly
    information for our last eight fiscal quarters. We believe that
    all necessary adjustments, which consisted only of normal
    recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated
    below to present fairly the results of such periods when read in
    conjunction with the consolidated

54

Table of Contents   

financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in
    this Annual Report. The sum of the quarterly financial
    information may vary from the annual data due to rounding.

Stock
    Options  

Our stock option program is a key component of the compensation
    package we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented
    employees and align their interests with the interests of
    existing stockholders. We recognize that options dilute existing
    stockholders and have sought to control the number of options
    granted while providing competitive compensation packages.
    Consistent with these dual goals, our cumulative potential
    dilution since June 1, 2005 has been a weighted average
    annualized rate of 1.5% per year. The potential dilution
    percentage is calculated as the average annualized new options
    granted and assumed, net of options forfeited by employees
    leaving the company, divided by the weighted average outstanding
    shares during the calculation period. This maximum potential
    dilution will only result if all options are exercised. Some of
    these options, which have
     10-year 
    exercise periods, have exercise prices substantially higher than
    the current market price of our common stock. At May 31,
    2008, 11% of our outstanding stock options had exercise prices
    in excess of the current market price. Consistent with our
    historical practices, we do not expect that dilution from future
    grants before the effect of our stock repurchase program will
    exceed 2.0% per year for our ongoing business. Over the last
    10 years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset
    the dilutive effect of our stock option program; however, we may
    reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we
    may use our available cash for acquisitions, to repay
    indebtedness or for other purposes. At May 31, 2008, the
    maximum potential dilution from all outstanding and unexercised
    option awards, regardless of when granted and regardless of
    whether vested or unvested and including options where the
    strike price is higher than the current market price, was 7.3%.

The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors reviews and
    approves the organization-wide stock option grants to selected
    employees, all stock option grants to executive officers and any
    individual stock option grants in excess of 100,000 shares.
    A separate Plan Committee, which is an executive officer
    committee, approves individual

55

Table of Contents   

stock option grants up to 100,000 shares to non-executive
    officers and employees. Stock option activity from June 1,
    2005 through May 31, 2008 is summarized as follows (shares
    in millions):

Our Compensation Committee approves the annual organization-wide
    option grants to certain key employees. These annual option
    grants are made during the ten business day period following the
    second trading day after the announcement of our fiscal fourth
    quarter earnings report.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

For information with respect to recent accounting pronouncements
    and the impact of these pronouncements on our consolidated
    financial statements, see Note 1 of Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Item 7A.  Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  

Interest Rate Risk:    We generally
    purchase debt security investments with relatively short
    maturities (see a description of our debt securities held in the
    Liquidity and Capital Resources section of Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations presented above). Therefore, interest rate movements
    generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt
    security investments. Changes in the overall level of interest
    rates affect the interest income that is generated from our
    investments. For fiscal 2008, total interest income was
    $337 million with investments yielding an average 3.44% on
    a worldwide basis. This interest rate level was down by
    53 basis points from 3.97% for fiscal 2007. If overall
    interest rates fell by 100 basis points from our average of
    3.44% during fiscal 2008, our annual interest income would
    decline by approximately $95 million, assuming consistent
    investment levels. The table below presents the cash, cash
    equivalent and marketable securities balances and the related
    weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at
    May 31, 2008. The cash, cash equivalent and marketable
    securities balances are recorded at their fair values at
    May 31, 2008.

56

Table of Contents   

The following table includes the U.S. Dollar equivalent of
    cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in
    foreign currencies. See discussion of our foreign currency risk
    below for a description of how we hedge net assets of certain
    international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure.

Our borrowings as of May 31, 2008 were $11.2 billion,
    consisting of $9.2 billion of fixed rate borrowings and
    $2.0 billion of variable rate borrowings. Our variable rate
    borrowings were as follows at May 31, 2008:

(1)   

The 2009 and 2010 Notes bear
    interest at a floating rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus
    0.02% per year and 0.06% per year, respectively. In September
    2007, we entered into two interest-rate swap agreements that
    have the economic effect of modifying the variable interest
    obligations associated with our floating rate senior notes due
    May 2009 and May 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior
    notes effectively becomes fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%,
    respectively. The critical terms of the interest rate swap
    agreements and the senior notes that the swap agreements pertain
    to match, including the notional amounts, interest rate reset
    dates, maturity dates and underlying market indices. The fair
    values of the aforementioned interest rate swaps totaled an
    unrealized loss of $24 million, net of tax effects, at
    May 31, 2008. We are accounting for these swaps as hedges
    pursuant to FASB Statement No. 133,  Accounting for
    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities . The
    unrealized losses are included in accumulated other
    comprehensive income and the corresponding fair value payables
    are included in other current and long-term liabilities in our
    condensed consolidated balance sheet.

Foreign Currency Transaction Risk:    We
    transact business in various foreign currencies and have
    established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency
    forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the
    effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this
    program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency
    exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency
    forward contracts that we enter into to mitigate the possibility
    of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. These foreign
    currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense
    fees and other intercompany transactions. Our forward contracts
    generally have terms of 90 days or less. We do not use
    forward contracts for trading purposes. All outstanding foreign
    currency forward contracts are marked to market at the end of
    the period with unrealized gains and losses resulting from fair
    value changes included in non-operating income, net (the
    effective portion of our Yen equity hedge described below is
    included in stockholders  equity). Our ultimate realized
    gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend
    on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as
    the contracts mature. Net foreign exchange transaction gains
    included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of operations were $17 million,
    $17 million and $15 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. The net unrealized gains of our outstanding
    foreign currency forward contracts were $3 million and
    $5 million at May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

The tables below present the notional amounts (at contract
    exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign
    currency exchange rates for our outstanding forward contracts as
    of May 31, 2008 and exclude our net

57

Table of Contents   

investment hedge contract described further below. Notional
    weighted average exchange rates listed in the tables below are
    quoted using market conventions. All of our forward contracts
    mature within one year with the substantial majority maturing
    within 90 days as of May 31, 2008.

Tables
    of Forward Contracts   

United
    States Dollar Foreign Exchange Contracts  

58

Table of Contents   

European
    Euro Foreign Exchange Contracts  

Net Investment Risk:    We hedge the net
    assets of certain of our international subsidiaries (net
    investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to
    offset the translation and economic exposures related to our
    investments in these subsidiaries. We measure the effectiveness
    of our net investment hedges by using the changes in spot
    exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management
    strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial
    statements and better manages interest rate differentials
    between different countries. Under this method, the change in
    fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes
    in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in
    stockholders  equity to offset the translation results on
    the net investments. The remaining change in fair value of the
    forward contract (the excluded portion and the ineffective
    portion, if any) is recognized in non-operating income, net.

Net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in
    stockholders  equity, net of tax effects, were
    $(53) million, $28 million and $14 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net gains on
    investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were
    $23 million, $28 million and $24 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

At May 31, 2008, we had one net investment hedge in
    Japanese Yen. The Yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk
    arising from net assets held in Yen as a result of equity
    capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary
    offering of our majority owned subsidiary, Oracle Japan. The
    fair value of our Yen investment hedge was nominal at
    May 31, 2008 and 2007. As of May 31, 2008, the Yen
    investment hedge had a notional amount of $633 million and
    an exchange rate of 104.32 Yen for each U.S. Dollar.

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of
    this Annual Report. See Part IV, Item 15.

Item 9.    

Changes
    In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

Not applicable.

59

Table of Contents   

Item 9A.  Controls
    and Procedures  

Evaluation
    of Disclosure Controls and Procedures   

As of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    we carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the
    participation of our Disclosure Committee and our management,
    including the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial
    Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our
    disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e). 
    Disclosure controls are procedures that are designed to ensure
    that information required to be disclosed in our reports filed
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act,
    such as this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time
    periods specified by the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission. Disclosure controls are also designed to ensure that
    such information is accumulated and communicated to our
    management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions
    regarding required disclosure. Our quarterly evaluation of
    disclosure controls includes an evaluation of some components of
    our internal control over financial reporting. We also perform a
    separate annual evaluation of internal control over financial
    reporting for the purpose of providing the management report
    below.

The evaluation of our disclosure controls included a review of
    their objectives and design, our implementation of the controls
    and the effect of the controls on the information generated for
    use in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In the course of the controls evaluation, we reviewed data
    errors or control problems identified and sought to confirm that
    appropriate corrective actions, including process improvements,
    were being undertaken. This type of evaluation is performed on a
    quarterly basis so that the conclusions of management, including
    our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
    concerning the effectiveness of the disclosure controls can be
    reported in our periodic reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and
     Form 10-K. 
    Many of the components of our disclosure controls are also
    evaluated on an ongoing basis by both our internal audit and
    finance organizations. The overall goals of these various
    evaluation activities are to monitor our disclosure controls and
    to modify them as necessary. We intend to maintain our
    disclosure controls as dynamic processes and procedures that we
    adjust as circumstances merit.

Based upon that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and
    Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls
    and procedures were effective as of the end of the period
    covered by this report.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting   

Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining
    adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term
    is defined in Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f). 
    Under the supervision and with the participation of our
    management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the
    effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting
    as of May 31, 2008 based on the guidelines established in
     Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (COSO). Our internal control over financial reporting includes
    policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance
    regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
    preparation of financial statements for external reporting
    purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted
    accounting principles.

Based on the results of our evaluation, our management concluded
    that our internal control over financial reporting was effective
    as of May 31, 2008. We reviewed the results of
    management s assessment with our Finance and Audit
    Committee.

The effectiveness of our internal control over financial
    reporting as of May 31, 2008 has been audited by
    Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in
    Part IV, Item 15 of this Annual Report.

Changes
    in Internal Control over Financial Reporting   

There were no changes in our internal control over financial
    reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required
    by paragraph (d) of Exchange Act
     Rules 13a-15 
    or  15d-15 
    that occurred during our last fiscal quarter that have
    materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

60

Table of Contents   

Inherent
    Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls   

Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, believes that our disclosure controls and
    procedures and internal control over financial reporting are
    effective at the reasonable assurance level. However, our
    management does not expect that our disclosure controls and
    procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will
    prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter
    how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable,
    not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control
    system are met. Further, the design of a control system must
    reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the
    benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs.
    Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no
    evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all
    control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been
    detected. These inherent limitations include the realities that
    judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns
    can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally,
    controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some
    persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management
    override of the controls. The design of any system of controls
    also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the
    likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that
    any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all
    potential future conditions; over time, controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of
    compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because
    of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system,
    misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be
    detected.

Item 9B.  Other
    Information  

None.

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

The information required by this Item is incorporated by
    reference from the information contained in our Proxy Statement
    to be filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange
    Commission in connection with the solicitation of proxies for
    our Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
    October 10, 2008.

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation  

The information required by this Item is incorporated by
    reference from the information to be contained in our Proxy
    Statement.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information   

May 31, 2008 

Number of Shares 

Number of 

Remaining Available 

Shares to be Issued 

Weighted Average 

for Future Issuance 

Upon Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Under Equity 

Outstanding Options, 

Outstanding Options, 

Compensation 

(in millions, except price data) 

Warrants and Rights 

Warrants and Rights 

Plans (1)  

Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders

301

$

16.33

382

(2) 

Equity compensation plans not approved by
    stockholders (3) 

78

$

16.28

Total

379

$

16.37

382

(1)   

These numbers exclude the shares
    listed under the column heading  Number of Shares to be
    Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and
    Rights. 

(2)   

This number includes
    81 million shares available for future issuance under the
    Oracle Corporation Employee Stock Purchase Plan (1992).

(3)   

These options and restricted stock
    units were assumed in connection with our acquisitions. No
    additional awards were or can be granted under the plans that
    originally issued these awards.

Information required by this Item with respect to Stock
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management is
    incorporated herein by reference from the information to be
    contained in our Proxy Statement.

61

Table of Contents   

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence  

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the information to be contained in our Proxy
    Statement.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by
    reference from the information to be contained in our Proxy
    Statement.

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)    

1.  Financial
    Statements  

The following financial statements are filed as a part of this
    report:

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

The following financial statement schedule is filed as a part of
    this report:

Page 

Schedule II. Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

111

All other schedules are omitted because they are not required or
    the required information is shown in the financial statements or
    notes thereto.

(b)    

Exhibits  

The following exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated by
    reference to exhibits previously filed with the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the original
    Exhibit number is referenced parenthetically).

Exhibit 

Number 

Exhibit Title 

2.01 (1) 

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated February 28, 2007, among
    Oracle Corporation, Hyperion Solutions Corporation and Hotrod
    Acquisition Corporation (2.1)

2.02 (2) 

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated January 16, 2008, among
    Oracle Corporation, BEA Systems, Inc. and Bronco Acquisition
    Corporation (2.1)

3.01 (3) 

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Oracle
    Corporation and Certificate of Amendment of Amended and Restated
    Certificate of Incorporation of Oracle Corporation (3.1)

3.02 (4) 

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Oracle Corporation (3.02)

4.01 (5) 

Specimen Certificate of Registrant s Common Stock (4.01)

4.02 (3) 

Preferred Share Rights Agreement between Oracle Corporation and
    Computershare Trust Company, N.A., as rights agent, dated as of
    January 31, 2006 (10.1)

4.03 (6) 

Indenture dated January 13, 2006, among Oracle Systems
    Corporation, Oracle Corporation and Citibank, N.A. (10.34)

62

Table of Contents   

63

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Exhibit Title 

12.01

Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21.01

Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23.01

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm

31.01

Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act Lawrence J. Ellison

31.02

Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act Safra A. Catz

32.01

Certification Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

64

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Oracle Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Oracle Corporation as of May 31, 2008 and 2007, and the
    related consolidated statements of operations,
    stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended May 31, 2008. Our audits also
    included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
    Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and schedule are
    the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements and
    schedule are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
    examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
    disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
    assessing the accounting principles used and significant
    estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
    financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Oracle Corporation at May 31, 2008
    and 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its
    cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    May 31, 2008, in conformity with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the
    related financial statement schedule, when considered in
    relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
    presents fairly in all material respects the information set
    forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements, under the headings Stock-Based Compensation and
    Income Taxes, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
    Accounting Standards No. 123(R),  Share-Based
    Payment , effective June 1, 2006 and Financial
    Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48,
     Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an interpretation
    of FASB Statement No. 109 , effective June 1, 2007.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    Oracle Corporation s internal control over financial
    reporting as of May 31, 2008, based on criteria established
    in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by
    the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission and our report dated July 1, 2008 expressed an
    unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

San Francisco, California

July 1, 2008

65

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF
    ERNST   YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC
    ACCOUNTING FIRM  

The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Oracle Corporation

We have audited Oracle Corporation s internal control over
    financial reporting as of May 31, 2008 based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework
     issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Oracle
    Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Oracle Corporation maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of May 31, 2008, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of Oracle Corporation as of
    May 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated
    statements of operations, stockholders  equity, and cash
    flows for each of the three years in the period ended
    May 31, 2008 and our report dated July 1, 2008
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

San Francisco, California

July 1, 2008

66

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
    As of May 31, 2008 and 2007  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

67

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
    For the Years Ended May 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

68

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
    For the Years Ended May 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

69

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
    For the Years Ended May 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

70

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    May 31, 2008  

1.    

ORGANIZATION
    AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

Oracle Corporation develops, manufactures, markets, distributes
    and services database and middleware software, as well as
    applications software, that help organizations manage and grow
    their businesses. Database and middleware software is used for
    the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of
    software-based data, and for developing and deploying
    applications on the internet and on corporate intranets.
    Applications software is used to automate business processes and
    to provide business intelligence. We also offer software license
    updates and product support (including support for the Linux
    Operating System), and other services including consulting, On
    Demand, and education.

Oracle Corporation is a holding corporation with ownership of
    its direct and indirect subsidiaries, which include Oracle
    Systems Corporation (Old Oracle), Siebel Systems, Inc. (Siebel)
    and each of their domestic and foreign subsidiaries around the
    world. Oracle Corporation, or Oracle, was initially formed as a
    direct wholly-owned subsidiary of Old Oracle. Prior to
    January 31, 2006, our name was Ozark Holding Inc. and Old
    Oracle s name was Oracle Corporation. On January 31,
    2006, in connection with the acquisition of Siebel, which is
    described in Note 2, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle
    was merged with and into Old Oracle, with Old Oracle surviving
    as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle (the Reorganization). In
    addition, another wholly-owned subsidiary of Oracle was merged
    with and into Siebel, with Siebel surviving as a wholly-owned
    subsidiary of Oracle. As a result, Oracle became the parent
    company of Old Oracle and Siebel, and the changes to the names
    of Oracle and Old Oracle were effected.

Basis of
    Financial Statements  

The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and
    the accounts of our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. We
    consolidate all of our majority-owned subsidiaries and reflect
    as minority interests the portions of these entities that we do
    not own in other long-term liabilities on our consolidated
    balance sheets. At May 31, 2008 and 2007, the balance of
    minority interests was $369 million and $316 million,
    respectively. Intercompany transactions and balances have been
    eliminated. The presentation of certain prior year balances has
    been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.
    Such reclassifications did not affect total revenues, operating
    income or net income.

Use of
    Estimates  

Our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
    These accounting principles require us to make certain
    estimates, judgments and assumptions. We believe that the
    estimates, judgments and assumptions upon which we rely are
    reasonable based upon information available to us at the time
    that these estimates, judgments and assumptions are made. These
    estimates, judgments and assumptions can affect the reported
    amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the
    financial statements as well as the reported amounts of revenues
    and expenses during the periods presented. To the extent there
    are material differences between these estimates, judgments or
    assumptions and actual results, our consolidated financial
    statements will be affected. In many cases, the accounting
    treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated
    by GAAP and does not require management s judgment in its
    application. There are also areas in which management s
    judgment in selecting among available alternatives would not
    produce a materially different result.

Revenue
    Recognition  

We derive revenues from the following sources:
    (1) software, which includes new software license and
    software license updates and product support revenues, and
    (2) services, which include consulting, On Demand and
    education revenues.

71

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

New software license revenues represent fees earned from
    granting customers licenses to use our database, middleware and
    applications software, and exclude revenues derived from
    software license updates, which are included in software license
    updates and product support revenues. While the basis for
    software license revenue recognition is substantially governed
    by the provisions of Statement of Position
     No. 97-2, 
     Software Revenue Recognition
      (SOP 97-2), 
    issued by the American Institute of Certified Public
    Accountants, we exercise judgment and use estimates in
    connection with the determination of the amount of software and
    services revenues to be recognized in each accounting period.

For software license arrangements that do not require
    significant modification or customization of the underlying
    software, we recognize new software license revenues when:
    (1) we enter into a legally binding arrangement with a
    customer for the license of software; (2) we deliver the
    products; (3) customer payment is deemed fixed or
    determinable and free of contingencies or significant
    uncertainties; and (4) collection is probable.
    Substantially all of our new software license revenues are
    recognized in this manner.

The vast majority of our software license arrangements include
    software license updates and product support contracts, which
    are entered into at the customer s option and are
    recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement, typically
    one year. Software license updates provide customers with rights
    to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases
    and patches released during the term of the support period.
    Product support includes internet access to technical content,
    as well as internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel. Software license updates and product support
    contracts are generally priced as a percentage of the net new
    software license fees. Substantially all of our customers
    purchase both software license updates and product support
    contracts when they acquire new software licenses. In addition,
    substantially all of our customers renew their software license
    updates and product support contracts annually.

Many of our software arrangements include consulting
    implementation services sold separately under consulting
    engagement contracts. Consulting revenues from these
    arrangements are generally accounted for separately from new
    software license revenues because the arrangements qualify as
    services transactions as defined in
     SOP 97-2. 
    The more significant factors considered in determining whether
    the revenues should be accounted for separately include the
    nature of services (i.e., consideration of whether the services
    are essential to the functionality of the licensed product),
    degree of risk, availability of services from other vendors,
    timing of payments and impact of milestones or acceptance
    criteria on the realizability of the software license fee.
    Revenues for consulting services are generally recognized as the
    services are performed. If there is a significant uncertainty
    about the project completion or receipt of payment for the
    consulting services, revenues are deferred until the uncertainty
    is sufficiently resolved. We estimate the proportional
    performance on contracts with fixed or  not to exceed 
    fees on a monthly basis utilizing hours incurred to date as a
    percentage of total estimated hours to complete the project. If
    we do not have a sufficient basis to measure progress towards
    completion, revenues are recognized when we receive final
    acceptance from the customer. When total cost estimates exceed
    revenues, we accrue for the estimated losses immediately using
    cost estimates that are based upon an average fully burdened
    daily rate applicable to the consulting organization delivering
    the services. The complexity of the estimation process and
    factors relating to the assumptions, risks and uncertainties
    inherent with the application of the proportional performance
    method of accounting affects the amounts of revenues and related
    expenses reported in our consolidated financial statements. A
    number of internal and external factors can affect our
    estimates, including labor rates, utilization and efficiency
    variances and specification and testing requirement changes.

If an arrangement does not qualify for separate accounting of
    the software license and consulting transactions, then new
    software license revenues are generally recognized together with
    the consulting services based on contract accounting using
    either the percentage-of-completion or completed-contract
    method. Contract accounting is applied to any arrangements:
    (1) that include milestones or customer specific acceptance
    criteria that may affect collection of the software license
    fees; (2) where services include significant modification
    or customization of the software; (3) where significant
    consulting services are provided for in the software license
    contract without

72

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

additional charge or are substantially discounted; or
    (4) where the software license payment is tied to the
    performance of consulting services.

On Demand is comprised of Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and
    Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides
    multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance
    services for our database, middleware and applications software.
    CRM On Demand is a service offering that provides our customers
    with our CRM Software functionality delivered via a hosted
    solution that we manage. Advanced Customer Services provide
    customers configuration and performance analysis, personalized
    support and annual
     on-site 
    technical services.

Revenues from On Demand services are recognized over the term of
    the service period, which is generally one year or less.

Education revenues include instructor-led, media based and
    internet based training in the use of our products. Education
    revenues are recognized as the classes or other education
    offerings are delivered.

For arrangements with multiple elements, we allocate revenues to
    each element of a transaction based upon its fair value as
    determined by  vendor specific objective evidence. 
    Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value for all
    elements of an arrangement is based upon the normal pricing and
    discounting practices for those products and services when sold
    separately and for software license updates and product support
    services is also measured by the renewal rate offered to the
    customer. We may modify our pricing practices in the future,
    which could result in changes in our vendor specific objective
    evidence of fair value for these undelivered elements. As a
    result, our future revenue recognition for multiple element
    arrangements could differ significantly from our historical
    results.

We defer revenues for any undelivered elements, and recognize
    revenues when the product is delivered or over the period in
    which the service is performed, in accordance with our revenue
    recognition policy for such element. If we cannot objectively
    determine the fair value of any undelivered element included in
    bundled software and service arrangements, we defer revenue
    until all elements are delivered and services have been
    performed, or until fair value can objectively be determined for
    any remaining undelivered elements. When the fair value of a
    delivered element has not been established, we use the residual
    method to record revenue if the fair value of all undelivered
    elements is determinable. Under the residual method, the fair
    value of the undelivered elements is deferred and the remaining
    portion of the arrangement fee is allocated to the delivered
    elements and is recognized as revenues.

Substantially all of our software license arrangements do not
    include acceptance provisions. However, if acceptance provisions
    exist as part of public policy, for example in agreements with
    government entities when acceptance periods are required by law,
    or within previously executed terms and conditions that are
    referenced in the current agreement and are short-term in
    nature, we generally recognize revenues upon delivery provided
    the acceptance terms are perfunctory and all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met. If acceptance provisions are
    not perfunctory (for example, acceptance provisions that are
    long-term in nature or are not included as standard terms of an
    arrangement), revenues are recognized upon the earlier of
    receipt of written customer acceptance or expiration of the
    acceptance period.

We also evaluate arrangements with governmental entities
    containing  fiscal funding  or  termination for
    convenience  provisions, when such provisions are required
    by law, to determine the probability of possible cancellation.
    We consider multiple factors, including the history with the
    customer in similar transactions, the  essential use 
    of the software licenses and the planning, budgeting and
    approval processes undertaken by the governmental entity. If we
    determine upon execution of these arrangements that the
    likelihood of cancellation is remote, we then recognize revenues
    once all of the criteria described above have been met. If such
    a determination cannot be made, revenues are recognized upon the
    earlier of cash receipt or approval of the applicable funding
    provision by the governmental entity.

We assess whether fees are fixed or determinable at the time of
    sale and recognize revenues if all other revenue recognition
    requirements are met. Our standard payment terms are
    net 30; however, terms may vary based on the country in
    which the agreement is executed. Payments that are due within
    six months are generally deemed to be

73

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

fixed or determinable based on our successful collection history
    on such arrangements, and thereby satisfy the required criteria
    for revenue recognition.

While most of our arrangements include short-term payment terms,
    we have a standard practice of providing long-term financing to
    creditworthy customers through our financing division. Since
    fiscal 1989, when our financing division was formed, we have
    established a history of collection, without concessions, on
    these receivables with payment terms that generally extend up to
    five years from the contract date. Provided all other revenue
    recognition criteria have been met, we recognize new software
    license revenues for these arrangements upon delivery, net of
    any payment discounts from financing transactions. We have
    generally sold receivables financed through our financing
    division on a non-recourse basis to third party financing
    institutions and we classify the proceeds from these sales as
    cash flows from operating activities in our consolidated
    statements of cash flows. In fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    $1.1 billion, $891 million and $618 million or
    approximately 15%, 15% and 13% of our new software license
    revenues were financed through our financing division. We
    account for the sale of these receivables as  true
    sales  as defined in FASB Statement No. 140,
     Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets
    and Extinguishments of Liabilities. 

Our customers include several of our suppliers and on rare
    occasion, we have purchased goods or services for our operations
    from these vendors at or about the same time that we have
    licensed our software to these same companies (Concurrent
    Transactions). Software license agreements that occur within a
    three-month time period from the date we have purchased goods or
    services from that same customer are reviewed for appropriate
    accounting treatment and disclosure. When we acquire goods or
    services from a customer, we negotiate the purchase separately
    from any software license transaction, at terms we consider to
    be at arm s length, and settle the purchase in cash. We
    recognize new software license revenues from Concurrent
    Transactions if all of our revenue recognition criteria are met
    and the goods and services acquired are necessary for our
    current operations.

Business
    Combinations  

We determine and allocate the purchase price of an acquired
    company to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and
    liabilities assumed as well as to in-process research and
    development as of the business combination date in accordance
    with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement
    No. 141,  Business Combinations . The purchase price
    allocation process requires us to use significant estimates and
    assumptions, including fair value estimates, as of the business
    combination date including:

estimated fair values of stock awards assumed from the acquiree
    that are included in the purchase price;

estimated fair values of intangible assets acquired from the
    acquiree;

estimated fair values of software license updates and product
    support obligations assumed from the acquiree;

estimated value of restructuring liabilities to reorganize the
    acquiree s pre-acquisition operations;

estimated income tax assets and liabilities assumed from the
    acquiree; and

estimated fair value of pre-acquisition contingencies assumed
    from the acquiree.

While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the
    purchase price allocation process to accurately value assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed at the business combination
    date, our estimates and assumptions are inherently uncertain and
    subject to refinement. As a result, during the purchase price
    allocation period, which is generally one year from the business
    combination date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired
    and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to
    goodwill. With the exception of unresolved income tax matters or
    decreases to estimated restructuring liabilities, subsequent to
    the purchase price allocation period any adjustment to assets
    acquired or liabilities assumed is included in our operating
    results in the period in which the adjustment is determined.

74

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

In fiscal 2010, we will adopt FASB Statement No. 141
    (revised 2007),  Business Combinations . Refer to Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements (below) for additional information.

Marketable
    and Non-Marketable Securities  

In accordance with FASB Statement No. 115,  Accounting
    for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities,  and
    based on our intentions regarding these instruments, we classify
    our marketable debt and equity securities as available-for-sale.
    Marketable debt and equity securities are reported at fair
    value, with all unrealized gains (losses) reflected net of tax
    in stockholders  equity. If we determine that an investment
    has an other than temporary decline in fair value, we recognize
    the investment loss in non-operating income, net in the
    accompanying consolidated statements of operations. We
    periodically evaluate our investments to determine if impairment
    charges are required.

We hold investments in certain non-marketable equity securities
    which we do not have a controlling interest or significant
    influence, which are recorded at cost and included in other
    assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Our
    non-marketable securities are subject to periodic impairment
    reviews and we had nominal impairment losses related to
    non-marketable equity securities and other investments in fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006.

Allowances
    for Doubtful Accounts  

We record allowances for doubtful accounts based upon a specific
    review of all significant outstanding invoices. For those
    invoices not specifically reviewed, provisions are provided at
    differing rates, based upon the age of the receivable, the
    collection history associated with the geographic region that
    the receivable was recorded in and current economic trends.

Concentrations
    of Credit Risk  

Financial instruments that are potentially subject to
    concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash and cash
    equivalents, marketable securities and trade receivables.
    Investment policies have been implemented that limit investments
    to investment grade securities. We do not require collateral to
    secure accounts receivable. The risk with respect to trade
    receivables is mitigated by credit evaluations we perform on our
    customers, the short duration of our payment terms for the
    significant majority of our customer contracts and by the
    diversification of our customer base. No single customer
    accounted for 10% or more of revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or
    2006.

Other
    Receivables  

Other receivables represent value-added tax and sales tax
    receivables associated with the sale of software and services to
    third parties.

Property  

Property is stated at the lower of cost or realizable value, net
    of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is computed using the
    straight-line method based on estimated useful lives of the
    assets, which range from one to fifty years. Leasehold
    improvements are amortized over the lesser of estimated useful
    lives or lease terms, as appropriate. Property is periodically
    reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may
    not be recoverable. We did not recognize any significant
    property impairment charges in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Goodwill,
    Intangible Assets and Impairment Assessments  

Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price in a
    business combination over the fair value of net tangible and
    intangible assets acquired. Intangible assets that are not
    considered to have an indefinite useful life are amortized over
    their useful lives, which range from one to ten years. Each
    period we evaluate the estimated

75

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

remaining useful life of purchased intangible assets and whether
    events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the
    remaining period of amortization.

The carrying amounts of these assets are periodically reviewed
    for impairment (at least annually for goodwill) whenever events
    or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of
    these assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these
    assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of each
    asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is
    expected to generate. If the asset is considered to be impaired,
    the amount of any impairment is measured as the difference
    between the carrying value and the fair value of the impaired
    asset. We did not recognize any goodwill or intangible asset
    impairment charges in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

We hold derivative financial instruments to manage foreign
    currency and interest rate risks. We account for these
    instruments in accordance with FASB Statement No. 133,
     Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities , as amended, which requires that every derivative
    instrument be recorded on the balance sheet as either an asset
    or liability measured at its fair value as of the reporting
    date. Statement 133 also requires that changes in our
    derivatives  fair values be recognized in earnings, unless
    specific hedge accounting and documentation criteria are met
    (i.e. the instruments are accounted for as hedges). We record
    the effective portions of our derivative financial instruments
    that are designated as cash flow hedges or net investment hedges
    in accumulated other comprehensive income in the accompanying
    consolidated balance sheets. Any ineffective or excluded portion
    of a designated cash flow hedge or net investment hedge is
    recognized in earnings.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

The carrying value of our cash, cash equivalents and short-term
    borrowings approximates fair value due to the short period of
    time to maturity. We record changes in fair value for our
    marketable securities, foreign currency forward contracts,
    interest rate swaps and investment hedge based on quoted market
    prices. Based on the trading prices of our $11.25 billion
    and $6.25 billion senior notes outstanding as of
    May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and the interest rates
    we could obtain for other borrowings with similar terms at those
    dates, the estimated fair value of our borrowings at
    May 31, 2008 and 2007 was $11.26 billion and
    $6.16 billion, respectively.

Legal
    Contingencies  

We are currently involved in various claims and legal
    proceedings. Quarterly, we review the status of each significant
    matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the
    potential loss from any claim or legal proceeding is considered
    probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we accrue a
    liability for the estimated loss.

Foreign
    Currency  

We transact business in various foreign currencies. In general,
    the functional currency of a foreign operation is the local
    country s currency. Consequently, revenues and expenses of
    operations outside the United States are translated into
    U.S. Dollars using weighted average exchange rates while
    assets and liabilities of operations outside the United States
    are translated into U.S. Dollars using exchange rates at
    the balance sheet date. The effects of foreign currency
    translation adjustments are included in stockholders 
    equity as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income
    in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Foreign
    currency transaction gains are included in non-operating income,
    net in our consolidated statements of operations and were
    $40 million, $45 million and $39 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

76

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Stock-Based
    Compensation  

We account for share-based payments, including grants of
    employee stock awards and purchases under employee stock
    purchase plans, in accordance with FASB Statement No. 123
    (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  which requires that
    share-based payments (to the extent they are compensatory) be
    recognized in our consolidated statements of operations based on
    their fair values and the estimated number of shares we
    ultimately expect will vest. In addition, we have applied the
    provisions of the SEC s Staff Accounting
    Bulletin No. 107 in our accounting for Statement
    123(R). We recognize stock-based compensation expense on a
    straight-line basis over the service period of the award, which
    is generally four years. The fair value of the unvested portion
    of share-based payments granted prior to June 1, 2006 (our
    adoption date of Statement 123(R)) is recognized using the
    accelerated expense attribution method, net of estimated
    forfeitures.

Prior to June 1, 2006 (our adoption date of Statement
    123(R)), we accounted for our stock-based compensation plans
    under the intrinsic value method of accounting as defined by
    Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,  Accounting
    for Stock Issued to Employees  and applied the disclosure
    provisions of FASB Statement No. 123,  Accounting for
    Stock-Based Compensation , as amended. Under Opinion 25, we
    generally did not recognize any compensation expense for stock
    options granted to employees or outside directors as the
    exercise price of our options was equivalent to the market price
    of our common stock on the date of grant. However, we recorded
    stock-based compensation for the intrinsic value associated with
    unvested options assumed in connection with our acquisitions.
    For pro forma disclosures of stock-based compensation prior to
    June 1, 2006, the estimated fair values for options granted
    and options assumed were amortized using the accelerated expense
    attribution method. In addition, we reduced pro forma
    stock-based compensation expense for actual forfeitures in the
    periods they occurred.

Advertising  

All advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Advertising
    expenses, which are included within sales and marketing
    expenses, were $81 million, $91 million and
    $106 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

Research
    and Development  

All research and development costs are expensed as incurred.
    Costs eligible for capitalization under FASB Statement
    No. 86,  Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software to
    Be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise Marketed , were not material to
    our consolidated financial statements in fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively.

Acquisition
    Related and Other Expenses  

Acquisition related and other expenses consist of in-process
    research and development expenses, personnel related costs for
    transitional employees, stock-based compensation expenses,
    integration related professional services, certain business
    combination contingency adjustments after the purchase price
    allocation period has ended, and certain other operating
    expenses (income), net. Stock-based compensation included in
    acquisition related and other expenses resulted from unvested
    options assumed from acquisitions whose vesting was accelerated
    upon termination of the employees pursuant to the terms of those
    options.

77

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

In December 2007, we sold certain of our land and buildings for
    $153 million in cash. Concurrent with the sale, we leased
    the property back from the buyer for a period of up to three
    years. We have accounted for this transaction in accordance with
    FASB Statement No. 28,  Accounting for Sales with
    Leasebacks , FASB Statement No. 66,  Accounting for
    Sales of Real Estate , and FASB Statement No. 98,
     Accounting for Leases, et al.  We deferred
    $19 million of the gain on the sale representing the
    present value of the operating lease commitment and recognized a
    gain of approximately $57 million for the year ended
    May 31, 2008. The deferred portion of the gain will be
    recognized as a reduction of rent expense over the operating
    lease term.

For fiscal 2007, acquisition related and other expenses included
    a benefit related to the settlement of a lawsuit filed against
    PeopleSoft, Inc. on behalf of the U.S. government. This
    lawsuit was filed in October 2003, prior to our acquisition of
    PeopleSoft and represented a pre-acquisition contingency that we
    identified and assumed in connection with our acquisition of
    PeopleSoft. We settled this lawsuit in October 2006, which was
    subsequent to the purchase price allocation period, for
    approximately $98 million. Accordingly, we included the
    difference between the amount accrued as of the end of the
    purchase price allocation period and the settlement amount as a
    benefit to our consolidated statement of operations for fiscal
    2007.

Non-Operating
    Income, net  

Non-operating income, net consists primarily of interest income,
    net foreign currency exchange gains, the minority owners 
    shares in the net profits of our majority-owned subsidiaries
    (i-flex solutions limited and Oracle Japan), and other income
    including net realized gains related to our investments.

Income
    Taxes  

We account for income taxes in accordance with FASB Statement
    No. 109,  Accounting for Income Taxes . Deferred
    income taxes are recorded for the expected tax consequences of
    temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and
    liabilities for financial reporting purposes and amounts
    recognized for income tax purposes. We record a valuation
    allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount of
    future tax benefit that is more likely than not to be realized.

78

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

On June 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
    interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48),
    which contains a two-step approach to recognizing and measuring
    uncertain tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax
    return, We first determine if the weight of available evidence
    indicates that it is more likely than not that the tax position
    will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any related
    appeals or litigation processes. The second step is that we
    measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than
    50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement. FIN 48
    also required us to reclassify the majority of our uncertain tax
    positions from current to non-current in fiscal 2008
    (FIN 48 does not allow for retroactive treatment or
    presentation). We have recognized interest and penalties related
    to uncertain tax positions in our provision for income taxes
    line of our consolidated statements of operations. The impact of
    our adoption of FIN 48 is more fully discussed in
    Note 12.

Recent
    Accounting Pronouncements  

Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
    Assets:    In April 2008, the FASB issued FASB
    Staff Position (FSP)
     FAS 142-3, 
     Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible Assets .
    FSP
     FAS 142-3 
    amends the factors that should be considered in developing
    renewal or extension assumptions used to determine the useful
    life of a recognized intangible asset under FASB Statement
    No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets . FSP
     FAS 142-3 
    is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15,
    2008 and early adoption is prohibited. We are currently
    evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of FSP
     FAS 142-3 
    on our consolidated financial statements.

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities
    Disclosures :   In March 2008, the FASB issued
    Statement No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB
    Statement No. 133.  Statement 161 requires disclosure of
    how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how
    derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted
    for and how derivative instruments and related hedged items
    affect an entity s financial position, financial
    performance, and cash flows. Statement 161 is effective for
    fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, with early
    adoption permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of
    the pending adoption of Statement 161 on our consolidated
    financial statements.

Business Combinations:    In December
    2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141 (revised 2007),
     Business Combinations . The standard changes the
    accounting for business combinations including the measurement
    of acquirer shares issued in consideration for a business
    combination, the recognition of contingent consideration, the
    accounting for pre-acquisition gain and loss contingencies, the
    recognition of capitalized in-process research and development,
    the accounting for acquisition related restructuring
    liabilities, the treatment of acquisition related transaction
    costs and the recognition of changes in the acquirer s
    income tax valuation allowance. Statement 141(R) is effective
    for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008, with
    early adoption prohibited. We are currently evaluating the
    impact of the pending adoption of Statement 141(R) on our
    consolidated financial statements. We currently believe that the
    adoption of Statement 141(R) will result in the recognition of
    certain types of expenses in our results of operations that are
    currently capitalized pursuant to existing accounting standards,
    amongst other potential impacts.

Accounting and Reporting of Noncontrolling
    Interests:    In December 2007, the FASB issued
    Statement No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in
    Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of ARB
    No. 51 . The standard changes the accounting for
    noncontrolling (minority) interests in consolidated financial
    statements including the requirements to classify noncontrolling
    interests as a component of consolidated stockholders 
    equity, and the elimination of  minority interest 
    accounting in results of operations with earnings attributable
    to noncontrolling interests reported as a part of consolidated
    earnings. Additionally, Statement 160 revises the accounting for
    both increases and decreases in a parent s controlling
    ownership interest. Statement 160 is effective for fiscal years
    beginning after December 15, 2008, with early adoption
    prohibited. We are currently evaluating the impact of the
    pending adoption of Statement 160 on our consolidated financial
    statements.

79

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Fair Value Measurements:    In September
    2006, the FASB issued Statement No. 157,  Fair Value
    Measurements.   Statement 157 defines fair value,
    establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands
    fair value measurement disclosures. Statement 157 is effective
    for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007. In
    February 2008, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-1, 
     Application of FASB Statement No. 157 to FASB Statement
    No. 13 and Other Accounting Pronouncements That Address
    Fair Value Measurements for Purposes of Lease Classification or
    Measurement under Statement 13  and FASB Staff Position
     No. FAS 157-2, 
     Effective Date of FASB Statement No. 157 .
    Collectively, the Staff Positions defer the effective date of
    Statement 157 to fiscal years beginning after November 15,
    2008, for nonfinancial assets and nonfinancial liabilities
    except for items that are recognized or disclosed at fair value
    on a recurring basis at least annually, and amend the scope of
    Statement 157. We are currently evaluating the impact of the
    pending adoption of Statement 157 on our consolidated financial
    statements.

Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities:    In February 2007, the FASB
    issued Statement No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for
    Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities, including an
    amendment of FASB Statement No. 115,  which allows an
    entity the irrevocable option to elect fair value for the
    initial and subsequent measurement for certain financial assets
    and liabilities on an
     instrument-by-instrument 
    basis. Subsequent measurements for the financial assets and
    liabilities an entity elects to record at fair value will be
    recognized in earnings. Statement 159 also establishes
    additional disclosure requirements. Statement 159 is effective
    for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, with
    early adoption permitted provided that the entity also adopts
    Statement 157. The adoption of Statement 159 will not have a
    material impact on our consolidated financial statements.

Accounting for Advanced Payments for Future Research and
    Development:    In June 2007, the FASB ratified
     EITF 07-3, 
     Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
    Activities
      (EITF 07-3). 
     EITF 07-3 
    requires that nonrefundable advance payments for goods or
    services that will be used or rendered for future research and
    development activities be deferred and capitalized and
    recognized as an expense as the goods are delivered or the
    related services are performed.
     EITF 07-3 
    is effective, on a prospective basis, for fiscal years beginning
    after December 15, 2007. The adoption of
     EITF 07-3 
    will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial
    statements.

2.    

ACQUISITIONS  

Fiscal
    2008 Acquisitions  

BEA
    Systems, Inc.   

We acquired BEA Systems, Inc. on April 29, 2008 by means of
    a merger of one of our wholly owned subsidiaries with and into
    BEA such that BEA became a wholly owned subsidiary of Oracle. We
    acquired BEA to, among other things, expand our offering of
    middleware products. We have included the financial results of
    BEA in our consolidated financial statements as of
    April 29, 2008.

The total purchase price for BEA was approximately
    $8.6 billion and was comprised of:

(in millions, except per share amounts) 

Acquisition of approximately 430 million shares of
    outstanding common stock of BEA at $19.375 per share in cash

$

8,340

Fair value of vested BEA stock awards assumed

225

Acquisition related transaction costs

8

Total purchase price

$

8,573

Fair
    Value of Stock Awards Assumed  

As of April 29, 2008, BEA had approximately 39 million
    stock awards outstanding. In accordance with the Agreement and
    Plan of Merger dated January 16, 2008 (Merger Agreement),
    the conversion ratio of the number of

80

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

shares to be issued for each stock award assumed was based upon
    a conversion ratio of 0.8904, which was calculated as the the
    consideration price of $19.375 paid by Oracle for each BEA share
    of common stock outstanding divided by the average Oracle stock
    price for the five trading days prior to the closing date of
    April 29, 2008.

The fair values of stock awards assumed were determined using a
    Black-Scholes valuation model with the following assumptions:
    weighted average expected life of 3.68 years, weighted
    average risk-free interest rate of 2.82%, expected volatility of
    36% and no dividend yield. The fair value of unvested BEA stock
    awards will be recorded as operating expenses on a straight-line
    basis over the remaining service periods, while the fair values
    of vested options are included in the total purchase price.

Acquisition
    Related Transaction Costs  

Acquisition related transaction costs include estimated legal
    and accounting fees and other external costs directly related to
    the acquisition.

Preliminary
    Purchase Price Allocation  

Pursuant to our business combinations accounting policy, the
    total purchase price for BEA was allocated to the net tangible
    assets, intangible assets, and in-process research and
    development based upon their estimated fair values as of
    April 29, 2008 as set forth below. The excess of the
    purchase price over the net tangible assets, intangible assets,
    and in-process research and development acquired was recorded as
    goodwill. The preliminary allocation of the purchase price was
    based upon a preliminary valuation and our estimates and
    assumptions are subject to change within the purchase price
    allocation period (generally one year from the acquisition
    date). The primary areas of the purchase price allocation that
    are not yet finalized relate to restructuring costs, property
    values, the valuation of intangible assets acquired, certain
    legal matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual
    goodwill. Our preliminary purchase price allocation for BEA is
    as follows:

Intangible
    Assets  

In performing our preliminary purchase price allocation, we
    considered, among other factors, our intention for future use of
    acquired assets, analyses of historical financial performance
    and estimates of future performance of BEA s products. The
    fair values of intangible assets were calculated using an income
    approach and estimates and assumptions provided by both BEA and
    Oracle management. The rates utilized to discount net cash flows
    to their present values were based on our weighted average cost
    of capital and ranged from 7% to 17%. This discount rate was
    determined after consideration of our rate of return on debt
    capital and equity and the weighted average return

81

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

on invested capital. The following table sets forth the
    preliminary components of intangible assets associated with the
    BEA acquisition:

Customer relationships and software support agreements and
    related relationships represent the underlying relationships and
    agreements with BEA s customers. Developed technology is
    comprised of products that have reached technological
    feasibility and are a part of BEA s product lines. Core
    technology represents a combination of BEA processes, patents
    and trade secrets related to the design and development of
    BEA s software products. This proprietary know-how can be
    leveraged to develop new technology and improve our existing
    software products. Trademarks represent the fair value of brand
    and name recognition associated with the marketing of BEA s
    products and services.

In-Process
    Research and Development  

We expense in-process research and development (IPR D) upon
    acquisition as it represents incomplete BEA research and
    development projects that had not reached technological
    feasibility and had no alternative future use as of the date of
    our acquisition. Technological feasibility is established when
    an enterprise has completed all planning, designing, coding, and
    testing activities that are necessary to establish that a
    product can be produced to meet its design specifications
    including functions, features, and technical performance
    requirements. The value assigned to IPR D of
    $17 million was determined by considering the importance of
    each project to our overall development plan, estimating costs
    to develop the purchased IPR D into commercially viable
    products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the
    projects when completed and discounting the net cash flows to
    their present values based on the percentage of completion of
    the IPR D projects.

Deferred
    Revenues  

In connection with the preliminary purchase price allocation, we
    have estimated the fair value of the support obligations assumed
    from BEA in connection with the acquisition. The estimated fair
    value of the support obligations was determined using a cost
     build-up 
    approach. The cost
     build-up 
    approach determines fair value by estimating the costs relating
    to fulfilling the obligations plus a normal profit margin. The
    sum of the costs and operating profit approximates, in theory,
    the amount that we would be required to pay a third party to
    assume the support obligations. The estimated costs to fulfill
    the support obligations were based on the historical direct
    costs related to providing the support services and to correct
    any errors in BEA software products. We did not include any
    costs associated with selling efforts or research and
    development or the related fulfillment margins on these costs.
    Profit associated with selling efforts was excluded because BEA
    had concluded the selling efforts on the support contracts prior
    to the date of our acquisition. The estimated research and
    development costs have not been included in the fair value
    determination, as these costs were not deemed to represent a
    legal obligation at the time of acquisition. As a result, in
    allocating the purchase price, we recorded an adjustment to
    reduce the carrying value of BEA s April 29, 2008
    deferred support revenue by $250 million to reflect our
    estimate of the fair value of BEA s support obligations
    assumed.

82

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Pre-Acquisition
    Contingencies  

We have evaluated and continue to evaluate pre-acquisition
    contingencies relating to BEA that existed as of the acquisition
    date. If these pre-acquisition contingencies become probable in
    nature and estimable during the remainder of the purchase price
    allocation period, amounts recorded for such matters will be
    made in the purchase price allocation period and, subsequent to
    the purchase price allocation period, in our results of
    operations.

Agile
    Software Corporation   

We acquired Agile Software Corporation to expand our offering of
    product life cycle management solutions on July 16, 2007 by
    means of a merger of Agile with one of our wholly owned
    subsidiaries such that Agile became a wholly owned subsidiary of
    Oracle. We have included the financial results of Agile in our
    consolidated financial results effective July 16, 2007.

The total purchase price for Agile was $492 million which
    consisted of $471 million in cash paid to acquire the
    outstanding common stock of Agile, $14 million for the fair
    value of Agile options assumed and $7 million for
    transaction costs. In allocating the purchase price based on
    estimated fair values, we recorded approximately
    $105 million of goodwill, $198 million of identifiable
    intangible assets, $184 million of net tangible assets and
    $5 million of in-process research and development. The
    preliminary allocation of the purchase price was based upon a
    preliminary valuation and our estimates and assumptions are
    subject to change. The primary areas of the purchase price
    allocation that are not yet finalized relate to certain legal
    matters, income and non-income based taxes and residual goodwill.

Other
    Fiscal 2008 Acquisitions   

Our other fiscal 2008 acquisitions were not significant
    individually or in the aggregate.

In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and first quarter of fiscal
    2009, we agreed to acquire a number of companies for estimated
    total cash consideration of $407 million. We expect these
    transactions to close in the first quarter of fiscal 2009.

Fiscal
    2007 Acquisitions  

Hyperion
    Solutions Corporation   

On April 13, 2007, we acquired majority ownership of
    Hyperion Solutions Corporation by means of a cash tender offer
    and, subsequently, completed a merger of Hyperion with one of
    our wholly owned subsidiaries such that Hyperion became a wholly
    owned subsidiary of Oracle on April 19, 2007. We acquired
    Hyperion to expand our offerings of enterprise performance
    management and business intelligence software solutions.

The total purchase price for Hyperion was $3.2 billion
    which consisted of $3,171 million in cash paid to acquire
    the outstanding common stock of Hyperion, $51 million for
    the fair value of Hyperion options assumed and restricted stock
    awards exchanged and $27 million for acquisition related
    transaction costs. In allocating the purchase price based on
    estimated fair values, we recorded approximately
    $1,638 million of goodwill, $1,460 million of
    identifiable intangible assets, $95 million of net tangible
    assets and $56 million of in-process research and
    development.

i-flex
    solutions limited   

During fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006, we acquired interests in and
    increased our ownership of i-flex solutions limited by means of
    share purchase agreements, an open offer to acquire shares and
    open market purchases. We acquired a majority ownership in
    i-flex to expand our offerings of software solutions and
    services to the financial services industry.

83

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Our cumulative investment in i-flex as of May 31, 2008 was
    approximately $2.1 billion, which consisted of
    $2,039 million of cash paid for common stock and
    $31 million in transaction costs and other expenses. Our
    cumulative investment in i-flex has been allocated to
    i-flex s net tangible and identifiable intangible assets
    based on their estimated fair values as of the respective dates
    of acquisition of the interests. The minority interest in the
    net assets of i-flex has been recorded at historical book
    values. In allocating the purchase price, we recorded
    approximately $1.6 billion of goodwill, $273 million
    of identifiable intangible assets, $187 million of net
    tangible assets and $46 million of in-process research and
    development.

Other
    Fiscal 2007 Acquisitions   

A summary of our fiscal 2007 acquisitions and asset purchases
    other than our acquisitions of Hyperion and our
     i-flex 
    majority owned subsidiary is as follows:

Our acquisitions of Portal Software in July 2006 and MetaSolv in
    December 2006 were to expand our application offerings to the
    telecommunications industry. Our acquisition of Stellent in
    December 2006 was to further extend our enterprise content
    management product offerings. We have included the financial
    results of the related acquired companies in our consolidated
    financial statements as of each acquisition date.

Fiscal
    2006 Acquisitions  

Siebel
    Systems, Inc.   

On January 31, 2006, we completed our acquisition of Siebel
    pursuant to our Merger Agreement dated September 12, 2005.
    We acquired Siebel to expand our customer relationship
    management (CRM) applications offerings.

The total purchase price for Siebel was $6.1 billion which
    consisted of $4,073 million in cash paid to acquire the
    outstanding common stock of Siebel, $1,763 million for the
    value of our common stock issued in exchange for Siebel
    outstanding common stock, $245 million for the fair value
    of Siebel stock awards assumed and $50 million for
    transaction costs. In allocating the purchase price based on
    estimated fair values, we recorded approximately
    $2,331 million in goodwill, $1,564 million of
    identifiable intangible assets, $2,172 million of net
    tangible assets and $64 million of IPR D expense.

Other
    Fiscal 2006 Acquisitions   

During fiscal 2006, we acquired several software companies and
    purchased certain technology and development organizations for
    approximately $682 million, including transaction costs,
    which included cash paid of $648 million and the fair value
    of options assumed of $34 million. We recorded
    approximately $487 million of goodwill, $173 million
    of identifiable intangible assets, $14 million of
    IPR D expense and $8 million of net tangible assets in
    connection with these acquisitions during fiscal 2006. We have
    included the effects of these transactions in our results of
    operations prospectively from the respective dates of the
    acquisitions.

Unaudited
    Pro Forma Financial Information  

The unaudited financial information in the table below
    summarizes the combined results of operations of Oracle, BEA,
    Agile, Hyperion and other collectively significant companies
    acquired during fiscal 2008 and 2007, on a pro

84

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

forma basis, as though the companies had been combined as of the
    beginning of fiscal 2007. The pro forma financial information is
    presented for informational purposes only and is not indicative
    of the results of operations that would have been achieved if
    the acquisitions and any borrowings (see Note 6) had
    taken place at the beginning of each of the periods presented.
    The pro forma financial information for all periods presented
    also includes the business combination accounting effects on
    historical BEA, Agile, Hyperion and other collectively
    significant companies  operating results including the
    amortization expenses from acquired intangible assets,
    stock-based compensation charges for unvested stock awards
    assumed, adjustments to interest expense for borrowings and
    related tax effects as though the companies had been combined as
    of the beginning of fiscal 2007.

The unaudited pro forma financial information for the year ended
    May 31, 2008 combines the historical results of Oracle for
    the year ended May 31, 2008 and, due to differences in our
    reporting periods, the historical results of BEA for the eleven
    months ended April 29, 2008, the historical results of
    Agile for the period June 1, 2007 to July 15, 2007,
    and the pro forma adjustments listed above. The unaudited pro
    forma financial information for the year ended May 31, 2007
    combines the historical results of Oracle for the year ended
    May 31, 2007 and, due to differences in our reporting
    periods, the historical results of BEA for the twelve months
    ended April 30, 2007, the historical results of Agile for
    the year ended April 30, 2007, the historical results of
    Hyperion for the 10.5 months ended March 31, 2007, the
    historical results of other collectively significant companies
    acquired based upon their respective previous reporting periods
    and the dates that these companies were acquired by us, and the
    pro forma adjustments  effects listed above.

3.    

CASH,
    CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES  

Cash and cash equivalents primarily consist of deposits held at
    major banks, money market funds, Tier-1 commercial paper,
    U.S. Treasury obligations, U.S. government agency and
    government sponsored enterprise obligations, and other
    securities with original maturities of 90 days or less.
    Marketable securities primarily consist of time deposits held at
    major banks, Tier-1 commercial paper, corporate notes,
    U.S. Treasury obligations and U.S. government agency
    and government sponsored enterprise debt obligations.

The amortized principal amounts of our cash, cash equivalents
    and marketable securities approximated their fair values at
    May 31, 2008 and 2007. We use the specific identification
    method to determine any realized gains or losses from the sale
    of our marketable securities classified as available-for-sale.
    Such realized gains and losses were insignificant for fiscal
    2008, 2007 and 2006. The following table summarizes the
    components of our debt securities held, substantially all of
    which were classified as available-for-sale:

85

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Substantially all of our debt security investments held as of
    May 31, 2008 mature within one year. Our investment
    portfolio is subject to market risk due to changes in interest
    rates. We place our investments with high credit quality issuers
    as described above and, by policy, limit the amount of credit
    exposure to any one issuer. As stated in our investment policy,
    we are averse to principal loss and seek to preserve our
    invested funds by limiting default risk, market risk and
    reinvestment risk.

Property consisted of the following:

5.    

INTANGIBLE
    ASSETS AND GOODWILL  

The changes in intangible assets for fiscal 2008 and the net
    book value of intangible assets at May 31, 2008 and 2007
    were as follows:

Total amortization expense related to our intangible assets was
    $1.2 billion, $878 million and $583 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Estimated future
    amortization expense related to our intangible assets is
    $1.7 billion in fiscal 2009, $1.5 billion in fiscal
    2010, $1.3 billion in fiscal 2011, $1.1 billion in
    fiscal 2012, $962 million in fiscal 2013 and
    $1.8 billion thereafter.

86

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill, which is
    generally not deductible for tax purposes, by operating segment
    for fiscal 2008 and 2007, were as follows:

(1)   

Represents goodwill associated with
    certain acquisitions that was or will be allocated to our
    operating segments upon the finalization of our intangible asset
    valuations.

(2)   

Pursuant to our business
    combinations accounting policy, we record goodwill adjustments
    for the effect on goodwill of changes to net assets acquired
    during the purchase price allocation period (generally, one year
    from date of acquisition). Goodwill adjustments also include the
    effects on goodwill resulting from our adoption of FASB
    Interpretation No. 48 as of June 1, 2007 (see
    Note 12).

6.    

NOTES PAYABLE
    AND OTHER BORROWINGS  

Notes payable and other borrowings consisted of the following:

87

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Commercial
    Paper Program  

In March 2008, we increased our commercial paper program to
    $5.0 billion from $3.0 billion (the CP Program). The
    original dealer agreements entered into in February 2006 with
    each of Banc of America Securities LLC, JP Morgan Securities
    Inc., Lehman Brothers Inc., Merrill Lynch Money Markets Inc. and
    Merrill Lynch Pierce, Fenner   Smith Incorporated and
    the Issuing and Paying Agency Agreement entered into in February
    2006 with JPMorgan Chase Bank, National Association, remain in
    effect and were not changed. Under the CP Program, we may issue
    and sell unsecured short-term promissory notes (Commercial Paper
    Notes) pursuant to a private placement exemption from the
    registration requirements under federal and state securities
    laws. In fiscal 2008 and 2007, we issued approximately
    $1.2 billion and $2.1 billion of Commercial Paper
    Notes, respectively, of which none and $1.4 billion
    remained outstanding as of May 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively. As of May 31, 2008, we had $5.0 billion
    of capacity remaining under our CP Program.

Senior
    Notes  

In April 2008, we issued $5.0 billion of fixed rate senior
    notes, of which $1.25 billion of 4.95% senior notes is
    due April 2013 (2013 Notes), $2.5 billion of
    5.75% senior notes is due April 2018 (2018 Notes), and
    $1.25 billion of 6.50% senior notes is due April 2038
    (2038 Notes). We issued these senior notes to finance the
    acquisition of BEA and for general corporate purposes. Some or
    all of the 2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes may be redeemed
    at any time, subject to payment of a make-whole premium. The
    2013 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes pay interest semi-annually.

In May 2007, we issued $2.0 billion of floating rate senior
    notes, of which $1.0 billion is due May 2009 (New 2009
    Notes) and $1.0 billion is due May 2010 (2010 Notes). We
    issued the New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes to fund the redemption
    of the $1.5 billion of senior floating rate notes that we
    issued in fiscal 2006 (see below) and for general corporate
    purposes. The New 2009 Notes and 2010 Notes bear interest at a
    rate of three-month USD LIBOR plus 0.02% and 0.06%,
    respectively, and interest is payable quarterly. The New 2009
    Notes and 2010 Notes may not be redeemed prior to their maturity.

In January 2006, we issued $5.75 billion of senior notes
    consisting of $1.5 billion of floating rate senior notes
    due 2009 (Original 2009 Notes), $2.25 billion of
    5.00% senior notes due 2011 (2011 Notes) and
    $2.0 billion of 5.25% senior notes due 2016 (2016
    Notes and together with the Original 2009 Notes and the 2011
    Notes, Original Senior Notes) to finance the Siebel acquisition
    and for general corporate purposes. On June 16, 2006, we
    completed a registered exchange offer of the Original Senior
    Notes for registered senior notes with substantially identical
    terms to the Original Senior Notes.

In May 2007, we redeemed the Original 2009 Notes for their
    principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest. Our 2011
    Notes and 2016 Notes may also be redeemed at any time, subject
    to payment of a make-whole premium. Interest is payable
    semi-annually for the 2011 notes and 2016 notes.

The effective interest yields of the New 2009 Notes, 2010 Notes,
    2011 Notes, 2013 Notes, 2016 Notes, 2018 Notes and 2038 Notes
    (collectively, the Senior Notes) at May 31, 2008 were
    2.70%, 2.74%, 5.08%, 4.96%, 5.33%, 5.76% and 6.52%,
    respectively. In September 2007, we entered into two interest
    rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying
    the variable interest obligations associated with the New 2009
    Notes and 2010 Notes so that the interest payable on the senior
    notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%,
    respectively (see Note 9 for additional information).

The Senior Notes rank pari passu with any Commercial Paper Notes
    that we issue and all existing and future senior indebtedness of
    Oracle Corporation. All existing and future liabilities of the
    subsidiaries of Oracle Corporation will be effectively senior to
    the Senior Notes and any Commercial Paper Notes that we issue.

88

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

We were in compliance with all debt-related covenants at
    May 31, 2008. Future principal payments of our borrowings
    at May 31, 2008 are as follows: $1.0 billion in fiscal
    2009, $1.0 billion in fiscal 2010, $2.25 billion in
    fiscal 2011, $1.25 billion in fiscal 2013 and
    $5.75 billion thereafter.

Revolving
    Credit Agreements  

In March 2008, we entered into a $2.0 billion,
     364-Day 
    Revolving Credit Agreement with Wachovia Bank, National
    Association, Bank of America, N.A. and certain other lenders
    (2008 Credit Agreement). The 2008 Credit Agreement supplements
    our existing $3.0 billion, five-year Revolving Credit
    Agreement with substantially the same parties that we entered
    into in March 2006 (the 2006 Credit Agreement, and together with
    the 2008 Credit Agreement, the Credit Agreements). The Credit
    Agreements provide for unsecured revolving credit facilities,
    which can also be used to backstop any Commercial Paper Notes
    (see above) that we may issue and for working capital and other
    general corporate purposes. Subject to certain conditions stated
    in the Credit Agreements, we may borrow, prepay and re-borrow
    amounts under the facilities at any time during the terms of the
    Credit Agreements. Interest for the Credit Agreements is based
    on either (a) a LIBOR-based formula or (b) a formula
    based on Wachovia s prime rate or on the federal funds
    effective rate. Any amounts drawn pursuant to the 2008 Credit
    Agreement are due on March 17, 2009 (we may, upon the
    agreement of the lenders, extend the facility by up to two times
    in succession). Any amounts drawn pursuant to the 2006 Credit
    Agreement are due on March 14, 2011. No amounts were
    outstanding pursuant to the Credit Agreements as of May 31,
    2008 and 2007. A total of $5.0 billion remained available
    pursuant to the Credit Agreements at May 31, 2008.

The Credit Agreements contain certain customary representations
    and warranties, covenants and events of default, including the
    requirement that our total net debt to total capitalization
    ratio not exceed 45%. If any of the events of default occur and
    are not cured within applicable grace periods or waived, any
    unpaid amounts under the Credit Agreements may be declared
    immediately due and payable and the Credit Agreements may be
    terminated. We were in compliance with the Credit
    Agreements  covenants as of May 31, 2008.

7.    

RESTRUCTURING
    ACTIVITIES  

Fiscal
    2008 Oracle Restructuring Plan  

During the second quarter of fiscal 2008, our management
    approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure and
    improve efficiencies in our Oracle-based operations as a result
    of certain management and organizational changes and our recent
    acquisitions (the 2008 Plan). During the fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2008, the 2008 Plan was amended to include the expected
    effects resulting from our acquisition of BEA. The total
    estimated restructuring costs (primarily related to employee
    severance) associated with the 2008 Plan are $111 million
    and will be recorded to the restructuring expense line item
    within our consolidated statements of operations as they are
    recognized. In fiscal 2008, we recorded $41 million in
    restructuring expenses and expect to incur the majority of the
    remaining $70 million over the course of fiscal 2009. Any
    changes to the estimates of executing the 2008 Plan will be
    reflected in our future results of operations.

Acquisition
    Related Restructuring Plans  

During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, fourth quarter of
    fiscal 2007 and third quarter of fiscal 2006, our management
    approved, committed to and initiated plans to restructure
    certain operations of pre-merger BEA (BEA Restructuring Plan),
    Hyperion (Hyperion Restructuring Plan) and Siebel (Siebel
    Restructuring Plan), respectively. Our management initiated
    these plans as a result of our acquisitions of these companies
    in order to improve the cost efficiencies in our operations. The
    total estimated restructuring costs associated with exiting
    activities of BEA were $231 million, consisting of
    estimated severance, excess facilities obligations through
    fiscal 2014 as well as other restructuring costs. The total
    restructuring costs associated with exiting activities of
    Hyperion were $118 million, consisting of severance, excess
    facilities obligations through fiscal 2017, as well as other
    restructuring costs. The

89

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

total restructuring costs associated with exiting activities of
    Siebel were $575 million, consisting of severance, excess
    facilities obligations through fiscal 2022, as well as severance
    and other restructuring costs.

These costs were originally recognized as liabilities assumed in
    each of the respective business combinations and included in the
    allocation of the cost to acquire these companies and,
    accordingly, have resulted in an increase to goodwill. Our
    restructuring expenses may change as our management executes the
    approved plans. Future decreases to the estimates of executing
    the restructuring plans will be recorded as an adjustment to
    goodwill indefinitely. Increases to the estimates of the BEA
    Restructuring Plan will be recorded as an adjustment to goodwill
    during the purchase accounting allocation period and as an
    adjustment to operating expenses thereafter. Increases to the
    estimates of the Hyperion and Siebel Restructuring Plans will be
    recorded to operating expenses.

Summary
    of All Plans  

Fiscal
    2008 Activity   

90

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Fiscal
    2007 Activity   

Fiscal
    2006 Activity   

(1)   

Includes severance costs associated
    with research and development, and general and administrative
    functions, and certain other facility related costs.

(2)   

Accrued restructuring at
    May 31, 2008, May 31, 2007 and May 31, 2006 was
    $568 million, $459 million, and $685 million,
    respectively. The balances at May 31, 2008, May 31,
    2007 and May 31, 2006 include $308 million,
    $201 million and $412 million recorded in accrued
    restructuring, current, respectively, and $260 million,
    $258 million and $273 million recorded in accrued
    restructuring, non-current, respectively.

(3)   

Costs associated with initial
    restructuring plan.

(4)   

Hyperion plan adjustments in fiscal
    2008 and Siebel plan adjustments in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2006
    relate to changes in estimates within the purchase price
    allocation period (offset recorded to goodwill). All other plan
    adjustments are changes in estimates whereby increases are
    recorded to operating expenses in the period of adjustment with
    decreases to Oracle-based plans recorded to operating expenses
    and decreases to acquisition related plans recorded as an
    adjustment to goodwill indefinitely.

(5)   

Represents foreign currency
    translation adjustments and certain other non-cash settlements.

91

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

8.    

DEFERRED
    REVENUES  

Deferred revenues consisted of the following:

Deferred software license updates and product support revenues
    represent customer payments made in advance for annual support
    contracts. Software license updates and product support
    contracts are typically billed on a per annum basis in advance
    and revenue is recognized ratably over the support period.
    Deferred service revenues include prepayments for consulting, On
    Demand and education services. Revenue for these services is
    recognized as the services are performed. Deferred new software
    license revenues typically result from undelivered products or
    specified enhancements, customer specific acceptance provisions
    or software license transactions that cannot be segmented from
    consulting services or certain extended payment term
    arrangements.

In connection with the purchase price allocations related to our
    acquisitions, we have estimated the fair values of the support
    obligations assumed. The estimated fair values of the support
    obligations assumed were determined using a cost-build up
    approach. The cost-build up approach determines fair value by
    estimating the costs relating to fulfilling the obligations plus
    a normal profit margin. The sum of the costs and operating
    profit approximates, in theory, the amount that we would be
    required to pay a third party to assume the support obligations.
    These fair value adjustments reduce the revenues recognized over
    the support contract term of our acquired contracts and, as a
    result, we did not recognize software license updates and
    product support revenues related to support contracts assumed
    from our acquisitions in the amount of $179 million,
    $212 million and $391 million that would have been
    otherwise recorded by our acquired businesses as independent
    entities in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

92

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

9.    

COMMITMENTS
    AND CONTINGENCIES  

Lease
    Commitments  

We lease certain facilities and furniture and equipment under
    operating leases. As of May 31, 2008, future minimum annual
    operating lease payments and future minimum payments to be
    received from non-cancelable subleases were as follows:

Lease commitments include future minimum rent payments for
    facilities that we have vacated pursuant to our restructuring
    and merger integration activities, as discussed in Note 7.
    We have approximately $355 million in facility obligations,
    net of estimated sublease income and other costs, in accrued
    restructuring for these locations in our consolidated balance
    sheet at May 31, 2008.

Rent expense was $276 million, $224 million and
    $175 million for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively,
    net of sublease income of approximately $57 million,
    $32 million and $23 million, respectively. Certain
    lease agreements contain renewal options providing for an
    extension of the lease term.

Unconditional
    Purchase Obligations  

In the ordinary course of business, we enter into certain
    unconditional purchase obligations with our suppliers, which are
    agreements that are enforceable, legally binding and specify
    certain minimum quantity and pricing terms. As of May 31,
    2008, our unconditional purchase obligations total
    $395 million for fiscal 2009, $17 million for fiscal
    2010, $4 million for fiscal 2011, $3 million for
    fiscal 2012, $3 million for fiscal 2013 and
    $10 million thereafter.

We also have commitments for approximately $407 million of
    cash consideration that we expect to pay in the first quarter of
    fiscal 2009 in connection with certain companies that we agreed
    to acquire.

Guarantees  

Our software license agreements generally include certain
    provisions for indemnifying customers against liabilities if our
    software products infringe a third party s intellectual
    property rights. To date, we have not incurred any material
    costs as a result of such indemnifications and have not accrued
    any liabilities related to such obligations in our consolidated
    financial statements. Certain of our software license agreements
    also include provisions indemnifying customers against
    liabilities in the event we breach confidentiality or service
    level requirements. It is not possible to determine the maximum
    potential amount under these indemnification agreements due to
    our limited and infrequent history of prior indemnification
    claims and the unique facts and circumstances involved in each
    particular agreement. Historically, payments made by us under
    these agreements have not had a material effect on our results
    of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

93

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Our software license agreements also generally include a
    warranty that our software products will substantially operate
    as described in the applicable program documentation for a
    period of one year after delivery. We also warrant that services
    we perform will be provided in a manner consistent with industry
    standards for a period of 90 days from performance of the
    service. Warranty expense was not significant in fiscal 2008,
    fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006.

We occasionally are required, for various reasons, to enter into
    agreements with financial institutions that provide letters of
    credit on our behalf to parties we conduct business with in
    ordinary course. Such agreements have not had a material effect
    on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows.

Derivative
    Financial Instruments  

We use derivative financial instruments to manage certain
    foreign currency and interest rate risks.

Foreign
    Currency Forward Contracts   

We transact business in various foreign currencies and have
    established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency
    forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the
    effects of certain foreign currency exposures. Under this
    program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency
    exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency
    forward contracts, to mitigate the possibility of foreign
    currency transaction gains or losses. These foreign currency
    exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and
    other intercompany transactions. Our forward contracts generally
    have terms of 90 days or less. We do not use forward
    contracts for trading purposes. All outstanding foreign currency
    forward contracts used in this program are marked to market at
    the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included
    in non-operating income, net. Our ultimate realized gain or loss
    with respect to currency fluctuations depends upon the currency
    exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts
    mature. Net foreign exchange transaction gains included in
    non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated
    statements of operations were $17 million, $17 million
    and $15 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006,
    respectively. The net unrealized gains of our outstanding
    foreign currency forward contracts were $3 million and
    $5 million at May 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.

Interest
    Rate Swap Agreements   

In September 2007, we entered into two interest rate swap
    agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the
    variable interest obligations associated with our New 2009 Notes
    and 2010 Notes (described in Note 6 above) so that the
    interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at
    a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%, respectively. The critical terms of
    the interest rate swap agreements and the New 2009 Notes and
    2010 Notes match, including the notional amounts, interest rate
    reset dates, maturity dates and underlying market indices. The
    periodic interest obligations related to the swap agreements,
    which occur at the same interval as the New 2009 Notes and 2010
    Notes, are recorded as interest expense. The fair values of the
    interest rate swaps totaled an unrealized loss of
    $24 million, net of tax effects, at May 31, 2008. We
    are accounting for these swaps as hedges pursuant to Statement
    133. The unrealized losses on these interest rate swaps are
    included in accumulated other comprehensive income and the
    corresponding fair value payables are included in other accrued
    liabilities and other long-term liabilities for the current and
    non-current portions, respectively, in our consolidated balance
    sheet.

Net
    Investment Hedges   

Periodically, we hedge the net assets of certain international
    subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency
    forward contracts to offset the translation and economic
    exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. We
    measure the effectiveness of net investment hedges by using the
    changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our
    risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in
    our financial statements and better manages interest rate
    differentials between different countries. Under this method,
    the change

94

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the
    changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is
    reported in stockholders  equity to offset the translation
    results on the net investments. The remaining change in fair
    value of the forward contract (the excluded portion and the
    ineffective portion, if any) is recognized in non-operating
    income, net.

Net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in
    stockholders  equity, net of tax effects were
    $(53) million, $28 million and $14 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Net gains on
    investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were
    $23 million, $28 million and $24 million in
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

At May 31, 2008, we had one net investment hedge in
    Japanese Yen. The Yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk
    arising from net assets held in Yen as a result of equity
    capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary
    offering of our majority owned subsidiary, Oracle Japan. The
    fair value of our Yen investment hedge was nominal as of
    May 31, 2008 and 2007. As of May 31, 2008, the Yen
    investment hedge had a notional amount of $633 million and
    an exchange rate of 104.32 Yen for each U.S. Dollar.

Peoplesoft
    Customer Assurance Program  

In June 2003, in response to our tender offer, PeopleSoft, Inc.
    implemented what it referred to as the  customer assurance
    program  (CAP). The CAP incorporated a provision in
    PeopleSoft s standard licensing arrangement that purports
    to contractually burden Oracle, as a result of our acquisition
    of PeopleSoft, with a contingent obligation to make payments to
    PeopleSoft customers should we fail to take certain business
    actions for a fixed period. PeopleSoft ceased using the CAP on
    December 29, 2004, the date on which we acquired a
    controlling interest in PeopleSoft. The payment obligation,
    which typically expires four years from the date of the
    contract, is fixed at an amount generally between two and five
    times the license and first year support fees paid to PeopleSoft
    in the applicable license transaction. PeopleSoft customers
    retain rights to the licensed products whether or not the CAP
    payments are triggered.

The maximum potential penalty under the CAP, by version, as of
    May 31, 2008 was as follows:

(1)   

Some contracts originally submitted
    to customers prior to these end dates were executed following
    such dates. The substantial majority of the CAP provisions will
    expire no later than four years after the contract date.

We have concluded that, as of the date of the acquisition, the
    penalty provisions under the CAP represented a contingent
    liability of Oracle. The aggregate potential CAP obligation as
    of May 31, 2008 was $1.9 billion. Some of the CAP
    provisions have expired or have been removed from these
    licensing arrangements. We expect the significant majority of
    the remaining CAP provisions to expire by the end of calendar
    2008. We have not recorded a liability related to the CAP, as we
    do not believe it is probable that our post-acquisition
    activities related to the PeopleSoft and JD Edwards product
    lines will trigger an obligation to make any payment pursuant to
    the CAP. While no assurance can be given as to the ultimate
    outcome of any litigation, we believe we would also have

95

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

substantial defenses with respect to the legality and
    enforceability of the CAP contract provisions in response to any
    claims seeking payment from us under the CAP terms.

10.    

STOCKHOLDERS 
    EQUITY  

Stock
    Repurchases  

Our Board of Directors has approved a program for Oracle to
    repurchase shares of our common stock to reduce the dilutive
    effect of our stock option and stock purchase plans. In April
    2007, our Board of Directors expanded our repurchase program by
    $4.0 billion and as of May 31, 2008, $2.2 billion
    was available for share repurchases pursuant to our stock
    repurchase program. We repurchased 97.3 million shares for
    $2.0 billion (including 1.1 million shares for
    $24 million that were repurchased but not settled),
    233.5 million shares for $4.0 billion and
    146.9 million shares for $2.1 billion in fiscal 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively.

Our stock repurchase authorization does not have an expiration
    date and the pace of our repurchase activity will depend on
    factors such as our working capital needs, our cash requirements
    for acquisitions, our debt repayment obligations (as described
    above), our stock price, and economic and market conditions. Our
    stock repurchases may be effected from time to time through open
    market purchases or pursuant to a
     Rule 10b5-1 
    plan. Our stock repurchase program may be accelerated,
    suspended, delayed or discontinued at any time.

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income  

The following table summarizes, as of each balance sheet date,
    the components of our accumulated other comprehensive income,
    net of income taxes (income tax effects were insignificant for
    all periods presented):

Rights
    Agreement  

On March 31, 2008, our stockholder rights plan expired by
    its terms.

11.    

EMPLOYEE
    BENEFIT PLANS  

Stock-based
    Compensation Plans  

Stock
    Option Plans   

In fiscal 2001, we adopted the 2000 Long-Term Equity Incentive
    Plan (the 2000 Plan), which replaced the 1991 Long-Term Equity
    Incentive Plan (the 1991 Plan) and provides for the issuance of
    non-qualified stock options and incentive stock options, as well
    as stock purchase rights, stock appreciation rights and
    long-term performance awards to our eligible employees,
    officers, directors who are also employees or consultants,
    independent consultants and advisers. In fiscal 2005, the 2000
    Plan was amended and restated to, among other things, eliminate
    the ability to reprice options without stockholder approval, to
    provide our Board of Directors (Board) with the ability to grant
    restricted stock awards, to permit us to grant performance-based
    equity awards for eligible tax deductibility, to provide our
    Board with the ability to issue transferable equity awards and
    to eliminate the ability to buyout employees  options with
    cash or common stock. Under the terms of the 2000 Plan, options
    to purchase

96

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

common stock generally are granted at not less than fair market
    value, become exercisable as established by the Board (generally
    over four years under our current practice), and generally
    expire no more than ten years from the date of grant. Options
    granted under the 1991 Plan were granted on similar terms. If
    options outstanding under the 1991 Plan are forfeited,
    repurchased, or otherwise terminate without the issuance of
    stock, the shares underlying such options will also become
    available for future awards under the 2000 Plan. As of
    May 31, 2008, options to purchase 298 million shares
    of common stock were outstanding under both plans, of which
    168 million were vested. Approximately 299 million
    shares of common stock were available for future awards under
    the 2000 Plan. To date, we have not issued any stock purchase
    rights, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards or
    long-term performance awards under the 2000 Plan.

In fiscal 1993, the Board adopted the 1993 Directors 
    Stock Option Plan (the Original Directors  Plan), which
    provided for the issuance of non-qualified stock options to
    non-employee directors. In fiscal 2004, the Original
    Directors  Plan was amended and restated to eliminate a
    term limit on the plan, eliminate the ability to reprice options
    without stockholder approval, decrease the number of shares of
    common stock reserved for issuance under the Original
    Directors  Plan, provide the Board with the ability to make
    grants of restricted stock, restricted stock units or other
    stock-based awards instead of the automatic option grants and
    rename the Original Directors  Plan, the
    1993 Directors  Stock Plan. In fiscal 2007, the
    Original Directors  Plan was further amended to, among
    other things, increase the amounts of the annual stock option
    grants to directors, permit pro rata option grants to chairs of
    Board of Directors  committees and to provide that the
    Board of Directors or the Compensation Committee may, in the
    future, change the option grant policy for non-employee
    directors (the Directors  Plan). Under the terms of the
    Directors  Plan, options to purchase 8 million shares
    of common stock were reserved for issuance, options are granted
    at not less than fair market value, become exercisable over four
    years, and expire no more than ten years from the date of grant.
    The Directors  Plan provides for automatic grants of
    options to each non-employee director upon first becoming a
    director and thereafter on an annual basis, as well as automatic
    nondiscretionary grants for chairing certain Board committees.
    The Board has the discretion to replace any automatic option
    grant under the Directors  Plan with awards of restricted
    stock, restricted stock units or other stock-based awards. The
    number of shares subject to any such stock award will be no more
    than the equivalent value of the options, as determined on any
    reasonable basis by the Board, which would otherwise have been
    granted under the applicable automatic option grant. The Board
    will determine the particular terms of any such stock awards at
    the time of grant, but the terms will be consistent with those
    of options, as described below, granted under the
    Directors  Plan with respect to vesting or forfeiture
    schedules and treatment on termination of status as a director.
    At May 31, 2008, options to purchase approximately
    4 million shares of common stock were outstanding under the
    1993 Directors  Plan, of which approximately
    2 million were vested. Approximately 2 million shares
    are available for future option awards under this plan of which
    a lesser portion than the total may be used for grants other
    than options.

In connection with certain of our acquisitions, including
    PeopleSoft, BEA, Siebel and Hyperion, we assumed all of the
    outstanding stock options and other stock awards of each
    acquiree s respective stock plans. These stock options and
    other stock awards generally retain all of the rights, terms and
    conditions of the respective plans under which they were
    originally granted. As of May 31, 2008, options to purchase
    77 million shares of common stock and 1 million shares
    of restricted stock were outstanding under these plans.

97

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

The following table summarizes stock option activity for our
    last three fiscal years ended May 31, 2008:

The range of stock option exercise prices is due to the
    fluctuating price of our stock over the period of the grants and
    from the conversion of options assumed from our acquisitions.
    The following table summarizes our range of stock option
    exercise prices and related information as of May 31, 2008:

98

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Options outstanding that have vested and that are expected to
    vest as of May 31, 2008 are as follows:

(1)   

The aggregate intrinsic value was
    calculated based on the difference between our closing stock
    price on May 31, 2008 of $22.84 and the exercise prices for
    all in-the-money options outstanding.

(2)   

The unrecognized compensation
    expense calculated under the fair value method for shares
    expected to vest (unvested shares net of expected forfeitures)
    as of May 31, 2008 was approximately $534 million and
    is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of
    2.26 years. Approximately 25 million shares
    outstanding as of May 31, 2008 are not expected to vest.

Stock-Based
    Compensation Expense and Valuation of Stock Awards
    Granted  

Stock-based compensation is included in the following operating
    expense line items in our consolidated statements of operations:

Quarterly, we assess whether there have been any significant
    changes in facts and circumstances that would affect our
    estimated forfeiture rate. The net effect of forfeiture
    adjustments based upon actual results was an increase to our
    stock-based compensation expense of approximately
    $6 million for fiscal 2008 (nominal for fiscal 2007).

99

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

The following table presents the effect on reported net income
    and earnings per share if we had accounted for our stock options
    under the fair value method of accounting for fiscal 2006:

Year Ended 

(in millions, except for per share data) 

May 31, 2006 

Net income, as reported

$

3,381

Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included in net
    income, net of related tax effects

39

Deduct: Stock-based employee compensation expense determined
    under the fair value method, net of related tax effects

(158

)

Pro forma net income

$

3,262

Earnings per share:

Basic as reported

$

0.65

Basic pro forma

$

0.63

Diluted as reported

$

0.64

Diluted pro forma

$

0.62

We estimate the fair value of our share-based payments using the
    Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model, which was developed
    for use in estimating the fair value of traded options that have
    no vesting restrictions and are fully transferable. Option
    valuation models, including the Black-Scholes-Merton
    option-pricing model, require the input of assumptions,
    including stock price volatility. Changes in the input
    assumptions can materially affect the fair value estimates. The
    fair value of employee and director stock options granted and
    options assumed from acquisitions, were estimated at the date of
    grant or date of acquisition for acquired options assumed. The
    weighted average input assumptions used and resulting fair
    values were as follows for fiscal 2008, 2007, and 2006:

The expected life input is based on historical exercise patterns
    and post-vesting termination behavior, the risk-free interest
    rate input is based on United States Treasury instruments and
    the volatility input is calculated based on the implied
    volatility of our longest-term, traded options. We do not
    currently pay cash dividends on our common stock and do not
    anticipate doing so for the foreseeable future. Accordingly, our
    expected dividend yield input is zero.

Tax
    Benefits from Option Exercises  

We settle employee stock option exercises primarily with newly
    issued common shares and may, on occasion, settle employee stock
    option exercises with our treasury shares. Total cash received
    as a result of option exercises was approximately
    $1.2 billion, $873 million and $573 million for
    fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The aggregate
    intrinsic value of options exercised was $2.0 billion,
    $986 million and $594 million for fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. In connection with these exercises, the
    tax benefits realized by us were $588 million,
    $338 million and $169 million for fiscal 2008, 2007
    and 2006, respectively. The adoption of Statement 123(R)
    required us to change our cash flow classification of certain
    tax benefits received from stock option exercises beginning in
    fiscal 2007. Of the total tax benefits received, we classified
    excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of
    $454 million and $259 million as cash flows from
    financing activities rather than cash flows from operating
    activities for fiscal 2008 and 2007, respectively. To calculate
    the excess tax benefits available for use in offsetting future
    tax shortfalls as of our Statement 123(R) adoption date, which
    also affects the excess tax benefits from stock-based
    compensation that we reclassify as cash flows from financing
    activities, we adopted the

100

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

alternative transition method as prescribed under FASB Staff
    Position
     FAS 123R-3, 
     Transition Election to Accounting for the Tax Effects of
    Share-Based Payment Awards .

Employee
    Stock Purchase Plan   

We have an Employee Stock Purchase Plan (Purchase Plan).
    Starting with the April 1, 2005 semi-annual option period,
    we amended the Purchase Plan such that employees can purchase
    shares of common stock at a price per share that is 95% of the
    fair value of Oracle stock as of the end of the semi-annual
    option period. As of May 31, 2008, 81 million shares
    were reserved for future issuances under the Purchase Plan.
    During fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, we issued 3 million,
    3 million and 6 million shares, respectively, under
    the Purchase Plan.

Defined
    Contribution and Other Postretirement Plans  

We offer various defined contribution plans for our
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. employees. 
    Total defined contribution plan expense was $234 million,
    $198 million and $170 million for fiscal years 2008,
    2007 and 2006, respectively. The number of plan participants in
    our defined contribution plans has increased primarily as a
    result of additional eligible employees from our acquisitions.

In the United States, regular employees can participate in the
    Oracle Corporation 401(k) Savings and Investment Plan (Oracle
    401(k) Plan). Participants can generally contribute up to 40% of
    their eligible compensation on a per-pay-period basis as defined
    by the plan document or by the section 402(g) limit as
    defined by the United States Internal Revenue Service. We match
    a portion of employee contributions, currently 50% up to 6% of
    compensation each pay period, subject to maximum aggregate
    matching amounts. Our contributions to the plan, net of
    forfeitures, were $80 million, $67 million and
    $58 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.

We also offer non-qualified deferred compensation plans to
    certain key employees whereby they may defer a portion of their
    annual base
     and/or 
    variable compensation until retirement or a date specified by
    the employee in accordance with the plans. Deferred compensation
    plan assets and liabilities were approximately $210 million
    and $195 million as of May 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, and are presented in other assets and other
    long-term liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance
    sheets.

The following is a geographical breakdown of income before the
    provision for income taxes:

101

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

The provision for income taxes differed from the amount computed
    by applying the federal statutory rate to our income before
    provision for income taxes as follows:

102

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

The components of the deferred tax assets and liabilities
    consist of the following:

We provide for United States income taxes on the undistributed
    earnings and the other outside basis temporary differences of
    foreign subsidiaries unless they are considered indefinitely
    reinvested outside the United States. At May 31, 2008, the
    amount of temporary differences related to undistributed
    earnings and other outside basis temporary differences of
    investments in foreign subsidiaries upon which United States
    income taxes have not been provided was approximately
    $7.2 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively. If these
    undistributed earnings were repatriated to the United States, or
    if the other outside basis differences were recognized in a
    taxable transaction, they would generate foreign tax credits
    that would reduce the federal tax liability associated with the
    foreign dividend or the otherwise taxable transaction. Assuming
    a full utilization of the foreign tax credits, the potential
    deferred tax liability associated with these temporary
    differences of undistributed earnings and other outside basis
    temporary differences would be approximately $1.7 billion
    and $1.5 billion, respectively.

The valuation allowance was $190 million at May 31,
    2008 and $166 million at May 31, 2007. The net
    increase is primarily attributable to deferred taxes of acquired
    entities, principally state attributes. Substantially all of the
    valuation allowance relates to tax assets established in
    purchase accounting. Any subsequent reduction of that portion of
    the valuation allowance and the recognition of the associated
    tax benefits will be applied to reduce goodwill and then to
    intangible assets established pursuant to the related
    acquisition through fiscal 2009, and will be recorded to our
    provision for income taxes upon our adoption of Statement 141(R)
    in fiscal 2010.

At May 31, 2008, we had federal net operating loss
    carryforwards of approximately $1.5 billion. These losses
    expire in various years between fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2027, and
    are subject to limitations on their utilization. We have state

103

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
    $2.1 billion, which expire between fiscal 2009 and fiscal
    2027, and are subject to limitations on their utilization. We
    have tax credit carryforwards of approximately
    $240 million, which are subject to limitations on their
    utilization. Approximately $117 million of these tax credit
    carryforwards are not currently subject to expiration dates. The
    remainder, approximately $123 million, expires in various
    years between fiscal 2010 and fiscal 2026.

On June 1, 2007, we adopted FASB Interpretation
    No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, an
    Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  (FIN 48).
    FIN 48 contains a two-step approach to recognizing and
    measuring uncertain tax positions accounted for in accordance
    with FASB Statement No. 109,  Accounting for Income
    Taxes . The first step is to evaluate the tax position taken
    or expected to be taken in a tax return by determining if the
    weight of available evidence indicates that it is more likely
    than not that, on evaluation of the technical merits, the tax
    position will be sustained on audit, including resolution of any
    related appeals or litigation processes. The second step is to
    measure the tax benefit as the largest amount that is more than
    50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.

The adoption of FIN 48 resulted in an increase to our
    retained earnings of $3 million and also resulted in us
    changing the classification of our unrecognized tax benefits
    from current to non-current during fiscal 2008.

The aggregate changes in the balance of our gross unrecognized
    tax benefits were as follows:

As of May 31, 2008, $799 million of unrecognized
    benefits would affect our effective tax rate if realized. We
    believe the amount of unrecognized tax benefits as of
    May 31, 2008 that would affect our effective tax rate if
    realized after the adoption of Statement 141(R) in fiscal 2010
    to be approximately $1.2 billion. We recognized interest
    and penalties related to uncertain tax positions in our
    provision for income taxes line of our consolidated statements
    of operations of $30 million during fiscal 2008. The gross
    amount of interest and penalties accrued as of May 31, 2008
    was $366 million.

Domestically, U.S. federal and state taxing authorities are
    currently examining income tax returns of Oracle and various
    acquired entities for years through fiscal 2006. Many issues are
    at an advanced stage in the examination process, the most
    significant of which include the deductibility of certain
    royalty payments, issues related to certain capital gains and
    losses, Foreign Sales Corporation/Extraterritorial Income
    exemptions, stewardship deductions and foreign tax credits
    taken. Other issues are related to years with expiring statutes
    of limitation. With all of these domestic audit issues
    considered in the aggregate, we believe it was reasonably
    possible that, as of May 31, 2008, the unrecognized tax
    benefits related to these audits could either increase as much
    as $68 million or decrease (whether by payment, release, or
    a combination of both) in the next 12 months by as much as
    $293 million ($246 million net of offsetting tax
    benefits). Our U.S. federal and, with some exceptions, our
    state income tax returns have been examined for all years prior
    to fiscal 2000, and we are no longer subject to audit for those
    periods.

Internationally, tax authorities for numerous
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    are also examining returns affecting unrecognized tax benefits.
    We believe it was reasonably possible that, as of May 31,
    2008, the gross unrecognized tax

104

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

benefits, could decrease (whether by payment, release, or a
    combination of both) by as much as $152 million
    ($74 million net of offsetting tax benefits) in the next
    12 months, related primarily to transfer pricing and a
    technical matter of corporate restructuring, which would be
    affected by the possible passage of favorable legislation. With
    some exceptions, we are generally no longer subject to tax
    examinations in
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    for years prior to fiscal 1998.

We believe that we have adequately provided for any reasonably
    foreseeable outcomes related to our tax audits and that any
    settlement will not have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.
    However, there can be no assurances as to the possible outcomes.

We previously negotiated three unilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreements with the IRS that cover many of our intercompany
    transfer pricing issues and preclude the IRS from making a
    transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these
    agreements. These agreements are effective for fiscal years
    through May 31, 2006. We have submitted to the IRS a
    request for renewal of this Advance Pricing Agreement for the
    years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31, 2011.
    However, these agreements do not cover all elements of our
    transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the
    United States. We have finalized one bilateral Advance Pricing
    Agreement, which was effective for the years ending May 31,
    2002 through May 31, 2006 and we have submitted a renewal
    for the years ending May 31, 2007 through May 31,
    2011. We currently are negotiating an additional bilateral
    agreement to cover the period from June 1, 2001 through
    May 31, 2008. There can be no guarantee that such
    negotiations will result in an agreement.

13.    

SEGMENT
    INFORMATION  

FASB Statement No. 131,  Disclosures about Segments of an
    Enterprise and Related Information , establishes standards
    for reporting information about operating segments. Operating
    segments are defined as components of an enterprise about which
    separate financial information is available that is evaluated
    regularly by the chief operating decision maker, or decision
    making group, in deciding how to allocate resources and in
    assessing performance. Our chief operating decision maker is our
    Chief Executive Officer. We are organized geographically and by
    line of business. While our Chief Executive Officer evaluates
    results in a number of different ways, the line of business
    management structure is the primary basis for which the
    allocation of resources and financial results are assessed. We
    have two businesses, software and services, which are further
    divided into five operating segments. Our software business is
    comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software
    licenses and (2) software license updates and product
    support. Our services business is comprised of three operating
    segments: (1) consulting, (2) On Demand and
    (3) education.

The new software license line of business is engaged in the
    licensing of database and middleware software as well as
    applications software. Database and middleware software includes
    database management software, application server software,
    business intelligence software, identification and access
    management software, analytics software, content management
    software, development tools and data integration software.
    Applications software provides enterprise information that
    enables companies to manage their business cycles and provide
    intelligence in functional areas such as customer relationship
    management, financials, human resources, maintenance management,
    manufacturing, marketing, order fulfillment, product lifecycle
    management, procurement, projects, sales, services, enterprise
    resource planning and supply chain planning. The software
    license updates and product support line of business provides
    customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades
    and maintenance releases, internet access to technical content,
    as well as internet and telephone access to technical support
    personnel during the support period. In addition, the software
    license updates and product support line of business offers
    customers Oracle Unbreakable Linux Support, which provides
    enterprise level support for the Linux operating system, and
    also offers support for Oracle VM server virtualization software.

The consulting line of business provides services to customers
    in business strategy and analysis, business process
    optimization, and the implementation, deployment and upgrade of
    our database, middleware and applications

105

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

software. On Demand includes Oracle On Demand, CRM On Demand and
    Advanced Customer Services. Oracle On Demand provides
    multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance
    services for customers that deploy our database, middleware and
    applications software either at our data center facilities, at
    select partner data centers or at customer facilities. CRM On
    Demand is a service offering that provides our customers with
    our CRM Software functionality delivered via a hosted solution
    that we manage. Advanced Customer Services consists of solution
    support centers, business critical assistance, technical account
    management, expert services, configuration and performance
    analysis, personalized support and annual
     on-site 
    technical services. The education line of business provides
    instructor led, media based and internet based training in the
    use of our database, middleware and applications software.

We do not track our assets by operating segments. Consequently,
    it is not practical to show assets by operating segments.

The following table presents a summary of our businesses and
    operating segments:

(1)   

Operating segment revenues differ
    from the external reporting classifications due to certain
    software license products that are classified as service
    revenues for management reporting purposes. Additionally,
    software license updates and product support revenues for
    management reporting include $179 million,
    $212 million and $391 million of revenues that we did
    not recognize in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    operations for fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. See
    Note 8 for an explanation of these adjustments and the
    following table for a reconciliation of operating segment
    revenues to total revenues.

(2)   

The margins reported reflect only
    the direct controllable costs of each line of business and do
    not represent the actual margins for each operating segment
    because they do not contain an allocation of product
    development, information technology, marketing and partner
    programs, and corporate

106

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

and general and administrative
    expenses incurred in support of the lines of business.
    Additionally, the margins do not reflect the amortization of
    intangible assets, restructuring costs, acquisition related and
    other expenses or stock-based compensation.

The following table reconciles operating segment revenues to
    total revenues as well as operating segment margin to income
    before provision for income taxes:

(1)   

Software license updates and
    product support revenues for management reporting include
    $179 million, $212 million and $391 million of
    revenues that we did not recognize in our accompanying
    consolidated statements of operations for fiscal 2008, 2007 and
    2006, respectively. See Note 8 for an explanation of these
    adjustments and this table for a reconciliation of operating
    segment revenues to total revenues.

107

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Geographic
    Information  

Disclosed in the table below is geographic information for each
    country that comprised greater than three percent of our total
    revenues for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 or fiscal 2006.

(1)   

Long-lived assets exclude goodwill,
    intangible assets, equity investments and deferred taxes, which
    are not allocated to specific geographic locations as it is
    impracticable to do so.

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing net income for
    the period by the weighted average number of common shares
    outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share is
    computed by dividing net income for the period by the weighted
    average number of common shares outstanding during the period,
    plus the dilutive effect of outstanding stock awards and shares
    issuable under the employee stock purchase plan using the
    treasury stock method. The following table sets forth the
    computation of basic and diluted earnings per share:

(1)   

These weighted shares relate to
    anti-dilutive stock options as calculated using the treasury
    stock method (described above) and could be dilutive in the
    future. See Note 11 for information regarding the prices of
    our outstanding, unexercised options.

Securities
    Class Action  

Stockholder class actions were filed in the United States
    District Court for the Northern District of California against
    us and our Chief Executive Officer on and after March 9,
    2001. Between March 2002 and March 2003, the court dismissed
    plaintiffs  consolidated complaint, first amended complaint
    and a revised second amended

108

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

complaint. The last dismissal was with prejudice. On
    September 1, 2004, the United States Court of Appeals for
    the Ninth Circuit reversed the dismissal order and remanded the
    case for further proceedings. The revised second amended
    complaint named our Chief Executive Officer, our then Chief
    Financial Officer (who currently is Chairman of our Board of
    Directors) and a former Executive Vice President as defendants.
    This complaint was brought on behalf of purchasers of our stock
    during the period from December 14, 2000 through
    March 1, 2001. Plaintiffs alleged that the defendants made
    false and misleading statements about our actual and expected
    financial performance and the performance of certain of our
    applications products, while certain individual defendants were
    selling Oracle stock in violation of federal securities laws.
    Plaintiffs further alleged that certain individual defendants
    sold Oracle stock while in possession of material non-public
    information. Plaintiffs also allege that the defendants engaged
    in accounting violations. On July 26, 2007, defendants
    filed a motion for summary judgment, and plaintiffs filed a
    motion for partial summary judgment against all defendants and a
    motion for summary judgment against our Chief Executive Officer.
    On August 7, 2007, plaintiffs filed amended versions of
    these motions. The parties  summary judgment motions are
    fully briefed. On October 5, 2007, plaintiffs filed a
    motion seeking a default judgment against defendants or various
    other sanctions because of defendants  alleged destruction
    of evidence. This motion is fully briefed. A hearing on all
    these motions was held on December 20, 2007. The court has
    not yet ruled on any of these motions. On April 7, 2008,
    the case was reassigned to a new judge, who has scheduled a
    status conference for July 18, 2008. On June 27, 2008,
    the court ordered supplemental briefing on plaintiffs 
    sanctions motion. Currently, no date has been set for trial.
    Plaintiffs seek unspecified damages plus interest,
    attorneys  fees and costs, and equitable and injunctive
    relief. We believe that we have meritorious defenses against
    this action, and we will continue to vigorously defend it.

Mangosoft
    Intellectual Property Litigation  

Mangosoft, Inc. and Mangosoft Corporation filed a patent
    infringement action against us in the United States District
    Court for the District of New Hampshire on November 22,
    2002. Plaintiffs alleged that we are willfully infringing
    U.S. Patent Nos. 6,148,377 (the  377 patent) and
    5,918,229 (the  229 patent), which they claim to own.
    Plaintiffs seek damages based on our license sales of the Real
    Application Clusters database option, the 9i and 10g databases,
    and the Application Server, and seek injunctive relief. We
    denied infringement and asserted affirmative defenses and
    counterclaimed against plaintiffs for declaratory judgment that
    the  377 and  229 patents are invalid, unenforceable
    and not infringed by us. On May 19, 2004, the court held a
    claims construction (Markman) hearing, and on September 21,
    2004, it issued a Markman order. On June 21, 2005,
    plaintiffs withdrew their allegations of infringement of the
     229 patent. Discovery closed on July 1, 2005. Summary
    judgment motions were filed on August 25, 2005, and the
    court held a hearing on these motions on October 17, 2005.
    On March 14, 2006 the court ruled that Oracle s Real
    Application Clusters database option did not infringe the
     377 patent.

Oracle s counterclaims against Mangosoft, alleging that the
     377 patent is invalid and unenforceable, were the only
    claims that the Court left open for trial. On April 21,
    2006 Mangosoft filed a motion asking that Mangosoft be allowed
    to appeal the noninfringement ruling immediately to the Federal
    Circuit Court of Appeals and that trial on Oracle s
    counterclaims be stayed until that appeal has been resolved.
    Oracle filed a brief opposing that motion on May 8, 2006.
    On March 28, 2007, the Court issued an order largely
    granting the relief sought by Mangosoft. The Court dismissed
    Oracle s counterclaims of invalidity and inequitable
    conduct without prejudice and ordered the entry of judgment of
    noninfringement consistent with its March 14, 2006 order on
    summary judgment. On March 29, 2007, the Court entered
    Judgment in Oracle s favor on the issue of noninfringement
    and, on the same day, Mangosoft filed its notice of appeal to
    the Federal Circuit stating that it was appealing (1) the
    Court s March 14, 2006 order on summary judgment,
    (2) the Court s order of March 28, 2007,
    (3) the Court s claim construction order of
    September 21, 2004, and (4) the entry of judgment on
    March 29, 2007. Oracle has filed its statement of costs in
    connection with the entry of judgment. On May 21, 2007, the
    parties were notified that the matter was selected for inclusion
    in the Federal Circuit s mandatory Appellate Mediation
    Program. A mediation was held on June 20, 2007, but the
    matter was not resolved. Mangosoft filed its opening appeal
    brief in the Federal Circuit on August 6, 2007. Oracle
    filed its responsive brief on November 16, 2007, and
    Mangosoft filed its reply brief on January 8, 2008. The

109

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL
    STATEMENTS (Continued) 
    May 31, 2008  

Federal Circuit heard oral argument in the appeal on
    March 3, 2008. On May 14, 2008, the Federal Circuit
    issued an opinion and order affirming the District Court s
    grant of Oracle s motion for summary judgment of
    noninfringement. Plaintiffs  time to seek reconsideration
    of the Federal Circuit s decision has expired. We believe
    that we have meritorious defenses against this action, and we
    will continue to vigorously defend it.

EpicRealm
    Intellectual Property Litigation  

On June 30, 2006, we filed a declaratory judgment action
    against EpicRealm Licensing, LP ( EpicRealm ) in the
    United States District Court, District of Delaware, seeking a
    judicial declaration of noninfringement and invalidity of
    U.S. Patent Nos. 5,894,554 (the  554 Patent) and
    6,415,335B1 (the  335 Patent). We filed the lawsuit
    following the resolution of an indemnification claim by one of
    our customers related to EpicRealm s assertion of the
     554 Patent and  335 Patent against the customer in a
    patent infringement case in the United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Texas.

On April 13, 2007, EpicRealm filed an Answer and
    Counterclaim in which it: (1) denies our noninfringement
    and invalidity allegations; (2) alleges that we have
    willfully infringed, and are willfully infringing, the  554
    Patent and  335 Patent; and (3) requests a permanent
    injunction, an award of unspecified money damages, interest,
    attorneys  fees, and costs. On May 7, 2007, we filed
    an Answer to EpicRealm s infringement counterclaim, denying
    EpicRealm s infringement allegations and asserting
    affirmative defenses.

The parties currently are conducting discovery. Briefing on
    claims construction and summary judgment motions is scheduled
    for the summer of 2008. A Markman hearing and oral argument on
    summary judgment motions are both set for September 26,
    2008. Trial is scheduled to begin on January 12, 2009. We
    believe that we have meritorious defenses against
    EpicRealm s counterclaims, and we will continue to
    vigorously defend against those counterclaims.

SAP
    Intellectual Property Litigation  

On March 22, 2007, Oracle Corporation, Oracle USA, Inc. and
    Oracle International Corporation (collectively, Oracle) filed a
    complaint in the United States District Court for the Northern
    District of California against SAP AG, its wholly owned
    subsidiary, SAP America, Inc., and its wholly owned subsidiary,
    TomorrowNow, Inc., (collectively, the SAP Defendants) alleging
    violations of the Federal Computer Fraud and Abuse Act and the
    California Computer Data Access and Fraud Act, civil conspiracy,
    trespass, conversion, violation of the California Unfair
    Business Practices Act, and intentional and negligent
    interference with prospective economic advantage. Oracle alleged
    that SAP unlawfully accessed Oracle s Customer Connection
    support website and improperly took and used Oracle s
    intellectual property, including software code and knowledge
    management solutions. The complaint seeks unspecified damages
    and preliminary and permanent injunctive relief. On
    April 10, 2007, Oracle filed a stipulation extending the
    time for the SAP Defendants to respond to the complaint. On
    June 1, 2007, Oracle filed its First Amended Complaint,
    adding claims for infringement of the federal Copyright Act and
    breach of contract, and dropping the conversion and separately
    pled conspiracy claims. On July 2, 2007 the SAP
    Defendants  filed their Answer and Affirmative Defenses,
    acknowledging that TomorrowNow had made some  inappropriate
    downloads  and otherwise denying the claims alleged in the
    First Amended Complaint. The parties are engaged in discovery
    and continue to negotiate a Preservation Order. At case
    management conferences held on February 12, 2008 and
    April 24, 2008, Oracle advised the Court that Oracle
    intends to file a Second Amended Complaint, based on new facts
    learned during the course of discovery.

Other
    Litigation  

We are party to various legal proceedings and claims, either
    asserted or unasserted, which arise in the ordinary course of
    business, including proceedings and claims that relate to
    acquisitions we have completed or to companies we have acquired
    or are attempting to acquire. While the outcome of these matters
    cannot be predicted with certainty, we do not believe that the
    outcome of any of these claims or any of the above mentioned
    legal matters will have a materially adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash
    flows.

110

Table of Contents   

SCHEDULE II  

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS  

111

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized, on July 2, 2008.

ORACLE CORPORATION

By: 

/s/   Lawrence
    J. Ellison 

Lawrence J. Ellison, Chief Executive Officer

and Director

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on
    behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
    indicated.

Name 

Title 

Date 

/s/   Lawrence
    J. Ellison 

Lawrence
    J. Ellison

Chief Executive Officer and Director (Principal Executive
    Officer)

July 2, 2008

/s/   Safra
    A. Catz  

Safra
    A. Catz

President, Chief Financial Officer and Director (Principal
    Financial Officer)

July 2, 2008

/s/   William
    Corey West 

William
    Corey West

Senior Vice President, Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting
    Officer (Principal Accounting Officer)

July 2, 2008

/s/   Jeffrey
    O. Henley 

Jeffrey
    O. Henley

Chairman of the Board of Directors

July 2, 2008

/s/   Jeffrey
    S. Berg 

Jeffrey
    S. Berg

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   H.
    Raymond Bingham 

H.
    Raymond Bingham

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   Michael
    J. Boskin 

Michael
    J. Boskin

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   George
    H. Conrades 

George
    H. Conrades

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   Hector
    Garcia-Molina 

Hector
    Garcia-Molina

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   Jack
    F. Kemp 

Jack
    F. Kemp

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   Donald
    L. Lucas 

Donald
    L. Lucas

Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   Charles
    E. Phillips, Jr. 

Charles
    E. Phillips, Jr.

President and Director

July 2, 2008

/s/   Naomi
    O. Seligman 

Naomi
    O. Seligman

Director

July 2, 2008

112

Table of Contents   

ORACLE
    CORPORATION 
    INDEX OF EXHIBITS  

Exhibit 

Number 

Exhibit Title 

12

.01

Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

21

.01

Subsidiaries of the Registrant

23

.01

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm

31

.01

Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act Lawrence J. Ellison

31

.02

Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
    Act Safra A. Catz

32

.01

Certification Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act

113

<EX-12.01>
 2
 f41477exv12w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 12.01

exv12w01 

Exhibit 12.01 

ORACLE CORPORATION 
Consolidated Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

(1)  
       
     The term  earnings  means the amounts resulting from the following: (a) our
income before provision for income taxes, plus (b) the minority interests in the income before
provision for income taxes of our majority owned subsidiaries, plus (c) our fixed charges, less (d)
our share of our equity investee s income before provision for income taxes. 

(2)  
       
     The term  fixed charges  means the amounts resulting from the following: (a) our
interest expensed, plus (b) our interest capitalized, plus (c) our estimate of the interest
component of rent expense. 

We do not report any shares of preferred stock outstanding in our consolidated financial statements
because our outstanding preferred stock is owned by one or more of our wholly-owned subsidiaries.
Consequently, our ratio of earnings to combined fixed charges and preferred dividends for any given period is
equivalent to our ratio of earnings to fixed charges.

</EX-12.01>

<EX-21.01>
 3
 f41477exv21w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.01

exv21w01 

Exhibit 21.01 

ORACLE CORPORATION 
Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Domestic Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

CrossLogix, Inc.

California 

Enosys Software, Inc.

California 

Oracle Credit Corporation

California 

Oracle International Corporation

California 

Oracle
International Technology Corporation

California 

Upshot Corporation

California 

Oracle USA, Inc.

Colorado 

MOHR Development, Inc.

Connecticut 

Alyson
Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Agile Software Corporation

Delaware 

Appeal Virtual Machines, Inc.

Delaware 

Appleone Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

BEA Crossgain, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA Government Systems, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA Systems Holding B, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA Systems, Inc.

Delaware 

BEA WebXpress, LLC

Delaware 

Business OnLine, Inc.

Delaware 

ECTone, Inc.

Delaware 

EntitleNet, Inc.

Delaware 

Ether
Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

Flashline, Inc.

Delaware 

Fuego, Inc.

Delaware 

Healthcare Acquisition I Corporation

Delaware 

Hyperion Solutions Corporation

Delaware 

Hyperion Solutions Holdings LLC

Delaware 

InterActive WorkPlace, Inc.

Delaware 

Istante Software

Delaware 

Jade Acquisition Corporation

Delaware 

M7 Corporation

Delaware 

Mantas,
Inc.

Delaware 

MetaSolv, Inc.

Delaware 

Numetrix, Inc.

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition I Corporation

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition II Corporation

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition VI Corporation

Delaware 

OIC Acquisition VIII Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Acquisition I Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Acquisition II Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Americas Investment 2 LLC

Delaware 

Domestic Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Americas Investment 3 LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Americas Investment LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Global Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle Japan Holding, Inc.

Delaware 

Oracle
Mauritius Holding Company

Delaware 

Oracle OTC Holdings General Partnership

Delaware 

Oracle OTC Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Oracle Systems Corporation

Delaware 

Oracle Taiwan, Inc.

Delaware 

Orchestream, Inc.

Delaware 

Plumtree Software, Inc.

Delaware 

RSIB, Inc.

Delaware 

SealedMedia, Inc.

Delaware 

Siebel Helpline.com, Inc.

Delaware 

Siebel Systems Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Siebel Systems International LLC

Delaware 

Siebel Systems International LP

Delaware 

Siebel Systems, Inc.

Delaware 

Silicongo, Inc.

Delaware 

Solarmetric, Inc.

Delaware 

SPL WorldGroup Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

SPL WorldGroup, Inc.

Delaware 

Stellent Colorado Springs, Inc.

Delaware 

Strategic Processing Corporation

Delaware 

The Theory Center, Inc.

Delaware 

Westside.com, Inc.

Delaware 

XQRL, Inc.

Delaware 

Monaco
Acquisition Corporation

Maryland 

LODESTAR Corporation

Massachusetts 

RogersGrant Acquisition Corp.

Massachusetts 

nquire Software, Inc.

Minnesota 

Stellent, Inc.

Minnesota 

Delphi Asset Management Corporation

Nevada 

Reliaty, Inc.

New Hampshire 

Nomadic Systems, Inc.

New Jersey 

Phaos Technology Corporation

New York 

The 20-20 Group, Ltd.

Ohio 

Acom
Acquisition Corporation

Pennsylvania 

Compoze Software, Inc.

Pennsylvania 

Domestic Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Prodika, Inc.

Texas 

Xeno Development, Inc.

Texas 

Trillium
Research, Inc.

Wisconsin 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

BEA Argentina S.A.

Argentina 

Oracle Argentina, S.A.

Argentina 

A.C.N.# 075-333596 (fka Brio Software Pty. Ltd. )

Australia 

BEA Systems Pty Ltd.

Australia 

edocs Asia-Pacific Pty Limited

Australia 

Eontec Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

G-Log Pty Ltd

Australia 

Hyperion Solutions Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

J.D. Edwards Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

J.D. Edwards World Solutions Company Pty Ltd

Australia 

LODESTAR Solutions Australia Pty Ltd.

Australia 

MetaSolv Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

Oracle Australia Holdings Pty Ltd

Australia 

Oracle Consolidation Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Oracle Corporation Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

Oracle Superannuation Pty Limited

Australia 

PeopleSoft Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Portal Software International Pty Ltd

Australia 

Retek Information Systems Pty Ltd

Australia 

Sidewinder Asia Pacific Pty Ltd

Australia 

Siebel Systems Australia Pty Limited

Australia 

SPL (Australia) Pty Ltd

Australia 

SPL WorldGroup (Australia) Pty Ltd

Australia 

SPL WorldGroup Holdings (Australia) Pty Ltd

Australia 

Stellent Asia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Vantive Australia Pty Ltd

Australia 

Oracle Austria GmbH

Austria 

BEA Systems (FSC) Inc.

Barbados 

Hyperion Foreign Sales Corporation

Barbados 

J.D. Edwards   Company Foreign Sales, Inc.

Barbados 

BEA Systems Europe N.V.

Belgium 

Oracle Belgium BVBA/SPRL

Belgium 

Hyperion Solutions Technologies, LP

Bermuda 

Oracle BH d.o.o. Sarajevo

Bosnia   Herzegovina 

BEA Systems Limitada

Brazil 

Oracle do Brasil Sistemas Limitada

Brazil 

PeopleSoft China Holding Corporation

British Virgin Islands 

BEA Systems, Ltd.

Canada 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Canada Holdings Inc.

Canada 

Oracle Corporation Canada Inc.

Canada 

Oracle Numetrix Company

Canada 

Star Acquisition ULC

Canada 

Steltor Corporation

Canada 

Steltor General Partnership

Canada 

Steltor Inc.

Canada 

WebGain (Nova Scotia) Company

Canada 

WebGain Canada Inc.

Canada 

BEA CrossGain International

Cayman Islands 

BEA International

Cayman Islands 

Oracle International Holding Company

Cayman Islands 

PeopleSoft C.I. Holdings Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

SPL WorldGroup International Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Sistemas Oracle de Chile, S.A.

Chile 

Agile Software (Suzhou) Co., Ltd.

China 

BEA Systems (China) Co., Ltd.

China 

BEA Technology (Beijing) Co., Ltd.

China 

Hyperion Solutions (China) Ltd.

China 

J.D. Edwards Software (Beijing) Co., Ltd.

China 

Oracle
(China) Software Systems Co., Ltd.

China 

Oracle Research   Development Center, Shenzhen, Ltd.

China 

Oracle Research   Development Center, Beijing, Ltd.

China 

PeopleSoft (Beijing) Software Co. Ltd.

China 

Siebel Systems Software (Shanghai) Co., Ltd.

China 

Oracle Colombia Limitada

Colombia 

Oracle de Centroam rica, S.A.

Costa Rica 

Oracle Croatia d.o.o.

Croatia 

Oracle Systems Limited

Cyprus 

Oracle Czech s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Oracle Danmark ApS

Denmark 

Oracle Ecuador, S.A.

Ecuador 

Oracle Egypt Ltd.

Egypt 

BEA Systems OY

Finland 

Innobase OY

Finland 

Oracle Finland OY

Finland 

Siebel Systems Suomi OY

Finland 

BEA Systems Customer Support (France) S.A.S.

France 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

BEA Systems S.A.S.

France 

Oracle France, S.A.S.

France 

Retek Information Systems S.A.

France 

BEA Systems Customer Support (Germany) GmbH

Germany 

BEA Systems GmbH

Germany 

Brio Software GmbH

Germany 

G-Log GmbH

Germany 

Oracle Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Oracle Hellas, S.A.

Greece 

BEA Systems Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Hyperion Solutions (Hong Kong) Ltd.

Hong Kong 

J.D. Edwards (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

MetaSolv Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Oracle Consulting Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Oracle Hong Kong Holdings Limited

Hong Kong 

Oracle Systems Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

PeopleSoft Hong Kong Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Portal Software (Asia Pacific) Limited

Hong Kong 

Siebel Systems Asia Limited

Hong Kong 

Siebel Systems Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

SPL WorldGroup Hong Kong Limited

Hong Kong 

Oracle Hungary Kft.

Hungary 

Siebel Systems Hungary Computer Technology

Hungary 

Agile Software Enterprise Private Limited

India 

BEA Systems India Private Ltd.

India 

BEA Systems India Technology Center Private Ltd.

India 

ECTone (India) Private Limited

India 

Hyperion Solutions India Private Limited

India 

i-flex
solutions Ltd.

India 

J.D. Edwards India Software Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Oracle India Private, Ltd.

India 

Oracle Solution Services (India) Private Ltd.

India 

PeopleSoft India Private Ltd.

India 

Portal Information Technology India Private Limited

India 

ProfitLogic Software Private Limited

India 

Siebel Systems Software (India) Private Limited

India 

PT Oracle Indonesia

Indonesia 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

BEA Systems (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

BEA Systems Ireland Holding Limited

Ireland 

BEA Systems Ireland Sales Support   Services Ltd

Ireland 

Eontec Limited

Ireland 

Eontec R D Limited

Ireland 

Eontec Sales Limited

Ireland 

J.D. Edwards Europe Ltd.

Ireland 

Netsure Telecom Limited

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Distributor Partner

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Elimination Company

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Holding Company

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Research Company

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Research Partner

Ireland 

Oracle CAPAC Services Limited

Ireland 

Oracle East Central Europe Limited

Ireland 

Oracle EMEA Holdings

Ireland 

Oracle EMEA Limited

Ireland 

Oracle Technology Company

Ireland 

PSFT International Limited

Ireland 

Siebel Systems EMEA Limited

Ireland 

Siebel Systems Ireland Holdings Limited

Ireland 

SPL WorldGroup (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Siebel Systems Isle of Man Limited

Isle of Man 

BEA Systems (Israel) Ltd.

Israel 

BEA Systems Middle East Ltd.

Israel 

Oracle Demantra R D Center Israel Ltd.

Israel 

Oracle Software Systems Israel Limited

Israel 

Siebel Systems Israel Software Limited

Israel 

SPL WorldGroup 2000 Ltd.

Israel 

BEA Systems Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Oracle Italia S.R.L.

Italy 

Agile Software K.K.

Japan 

BEA Systems Japan Ltd.

Japan 

Hyperion K.K.

Japan 

Miracle Linux Corporation

Japan 

Oracle Corporation Japan

Japan 

Oracle Information Systems (Japan) K.K.

Japan 

Siebel Systems (Jersey) Limited

Jersey Isles 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

BEA Systems Korea, Inc.

Korea 

J.D. Edwards (Korea), Inc.

Korea 

Oracle Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Portal Software Korea Limited Company

Korea 

Siebel Systems Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Oracle CAPAC Finance S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

Oracle Finance S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

PeopleSoft Luxembourg S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

SPL Acquisition S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

SPL WorldGroup (Luxembourg) I S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

SPL WorldGroup (Luxembourg) II S.a.r.l.

Luxembourg 

G-Log Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle Corporation Malaysia Holdings Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle Corporation Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle MSC Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

PeopleSoft Worldwide (M ) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Siebel Systems Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Oracle Global (Mauritius) Ltd.

Mauritius 

BEA Systems S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Oracle de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

BEA Systems Distribution B.V.

Netherlands 

BEA Systems Holland B.V.

Netherlands 

BEA Systems Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

edocs
Europe Netherlands B.V.

Netherlands 

Eontec
B.V.

Netherlands 

G-Log
B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Corporation UK Finance B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Distribution B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle
East Central Europe Services B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Licensing B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Oracle Scheduler B.V.

Netherlands 

PeopleSoft International B.V.

Netherlands 

Plumtree Software B.V.

Netherlands 

Plumtree Software Holding Company B.V.

Netherlands 

SPL WorldGroup B.V.

Netherlands 

Stellent Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Tinoway Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Holding Antilles N.V.

Netherlands Antilles 

Oracle New Zealand Holdings, Ltd.

New Zealand 

Oracle New Zealand, Ltd.

New Zealand 

SPL WorldGroup (NZ) Ltd.

New Zealand 

Oracle Software (Nigeria) Limited

Nigeria 

Oracle Norge AS

Norway 

Siebel Systems Norge AS

Norway 

Star Acquisition ULC

Nova Scotia 

Oracle Systems Pakistan (Private) Limited

Pakistan 

Sistemas Oracle del Peru, S.A.

Peru 

Oracle
(Philippines) Corporation

Philippines 

SPL WorldGroup (Philippines), Inc.

Philippines 

BEA
Systems Poland Sp.z.o.o.

Poland 

Oracle Polska, Sp.z.o.o.

Poland 

PeopleSoft
Poland Sp.z.o.o.

Poland 

Oracle Portugal   Sistemas de Informacao Lda.

Portugal 

Siebel Systems Portugal Solu  es de Informa  o, Lda.

Portugal 

Oracle Caribbean, Inc.

Puerto Rico 

Oracle EMEA Support Renewals S.a.r.l.

Romania 

Oracle Romania SRL

Romania 

Saudi Oracle Limited

Saudi Arabia 

Oracle Serbia   Montenegro Ltd., Belgrade

Serbia 

BEA Systems Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Eontec Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

G-Log Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Hyperion Software Pty. Ltd.

Singapore 

Hyperion Solutions Asia Pty. Ltd.

Singapore 

i-flex
solutions Pty. Ltd.

Singapore 

J.D. Edwards (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Corporation (Singapore) Holdings Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Corporation Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Oracle Singapore Holdings Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

PeopleSoft Asia Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Plumtree Software Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Siebel Systems Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

SPL Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Stellent Singapore Ptd. Ltd.

Singapore 

Vantive Singapore Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Oracle Slovensko spol. s.r.o.

Slovakia 

Oracle Software d.o.o. Ljubljana

Slovenia 

Cordaptix Services (Pty) Limited

South Africa 

Hyperion Solutions SA Pty. Ltd.

South Africa 

Oracle Corporation (South Africa)(Pty) Limited

South Africa 

Oracle Empowerment (South Africa) (Pty) Ltd.

South Africa 

PeopleSoft Africa (Pty.) Limited

South Africa 

PeopleSoft South Africa (Pty.) Limited

South Africa 

Siebel Systems South Africa (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

BEA Systems Spain S.A.

Spain 

Oracle Iberica, S.R.L.

Spain 

Stellent Iberica S.L.

Spain 

BEA
Systems AB

Sweden 

BEA Systems Stockholm Engineering AB

Sweden 

BEA Systems Sweden Telecom AB

Sweden 

Hotsip AB

Sweden 

INCOMIT Option AB

Sweden 

Oracle Svenska AB

Sweden 

Portal Software Sweden AB

Sweden 

Saida AB

Sweden 

BEA
Systems (Switzerland) Ltd.

Switzerland 

Oracle AG

Switzerland 

Oracle Software (Switzerland) LLC

Switzerland 

Plumtree Software GmbH

Switzerland 

PSFT Schweiz GmbH

Switzerland 

Agile Software Limited (Taiwan)

Taiwan 

J.D. Edwards (Taiwan) Pte. Ltd.

Taiwan 

PeopleSoft Taiwan Ltd. Co.

Taiwan 

BEA Systems (Thailand) Limited

Thailand 

Oracle Corporation (Thailand) Company Limited

Thailand 

Oracle Bilgisayar Sistemleri Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

Siebel Systems Yazilim Hizmetleri Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

PeopleSoft Middle East FZ-LLC

United Arab Emirates 

Siebel Systems Middle East FZ-LLC

United Arab Emirates 

Agile Software Limited

United Kingdom 

International Subsidiaries  
       
      Place of Incorporation  

Arbor Software Limited

United Kingdom 

BEA Systems Customer Support (United Kingdom) Limited

United Kingdom 

BEA Systems Europe, Ltd.

United Kingdom 

BEA Systems Ltd.

United Kingdom 

Brio Software Ltd.

United Kingdom 

Decisioneering (UK) Ltd.

United Kingdom 

edocs Europe UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Eon Financial Solutions Limited

United Kingdom 

G-Log (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

Hyperion Solutions (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

J.D. Edwards (U.K.) Ltd.

United Kingdom 

LODESTAR Solutions Limited

United Kingdom 

MetaSolv Software (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

Oblix, Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle APSS Trustee Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation Nominees Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation UK Holdings Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle Corporation UK Trustee Company Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle EMEA Management

United Kingdom 

Peoplesoft UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Plumtree Portal Software Limited

United Kingdom 

Portal Software (Europe) Limited

United Kingdom 

ProfitLogic Europe Limited

United Kingdom 

Retek Information Systems Limited

United Kingdom 

Sapling Corporation Europe Limited

United Kingdom 

Siebel Systems UK Limited

United Kingdom 

SleepyCat UK Limited

United Kingdom 

SPL WorldGroup (UK) Limited

United Kingdom 

Stellent Limited

United Kingdom 

Stellent SealedMedia Ltd

United Kingdom 

TimesTen Performance Limited

United Kingdom 

WebTrak Limited

United Kingdom 

Oracle de Venezuela, C.A.

Venezuela 

Oracle Vietnam Pty. Ltd.

Vietnam 

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 4
 f41477exv23w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.01

exv23w01 

Exhibit 23.01 

CONSENT OF ERNST   YOUNG LLP, 
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-8 Nos.
333-142776, 333-142225, 333-139901, 333-139875, 333-138694, 333-136275, 333-131988, 333-131427,
333-145162, 333-147400, and 333-151045 and Form S-3 No. 333-142796) of Oracle Corporation of our
reports dated July 1, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of
Oracle Corporation, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Oracle
Corporation, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended May 31, 2008.

/s/ ERNST   YOUNG LLP

San Francisco, California 
July 1, 2008

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 5
 f41477exv31w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.01

exv31w01 

Exhibit 31.01 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, Lawrence J. Ellison, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the
periods covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of the annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
Finance and Audit Committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:  July 2, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/  Lawrence J. Ellison 

Lawrence J. Ellison  

Chief Executive Officer and Director  

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 6
 f41477exv31w02.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.02

exv31w02 

Exhibit 31.02 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

I, Safra A. Catz, certify that:

1. 
       
     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Oracle Corporation; 

2. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

3. 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

4. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 

a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us
by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is
being prepared; 

b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of the annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
Finance and Audit Committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent functions): 

a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: July 2, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/     Safra A. Catz 

Safra A. Catz  

President, Chief Financial Officer and Director  

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 7
 f41477exv32w01.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.01

exv32w01 

Exhibit 32.01 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT 

The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the report on Form 10-K of
Oracle Corporation for the purpose of complying with Rule 13a-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States
Code.

Lawrence J. Ellison, the Chief Executive Officer of Oracle Corporation, and Safra A. Catz, the
Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation, each certifies that, to the best of his or her
knowledge:

1. 
       
     the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934; and 

2. 
       
     the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of Oracle Corporation. 

Date: July 2, 2008  
     By:   
     /s/    Lawrence  J. Ellison 

Lawrence J. Ellison  

Chief Executive Officer and Director  

By:   
                             /s/     Safra A. Catz 

Safra A. Catz  

President, Chief Financial Officer and Director  

</EX-32.01>

